ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e11897	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 111. Meeting of the National Council and wish you a nice good morning. The Official Protocols of 107 and 108. Meeting of 9. ==References====External links== Meeting of 10. On 1 December 2015, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Greiner, Mag. Unterrainer, Auer, Mag. Lettenbichler, Ing. Schellenbacher, Mag. Aslan, Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek and Mag. Vavrik. [[09:07:20]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e11931	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: “I am honoured to announce that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 26. In accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Rudolf HUNDSTORFER, the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Alois STÖGER, diplômé, and the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Gerald KLUG has been removed from the office. At the same time, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, on my proposal, referred to in Article 70(1). Mr Alois STÖGER, Mr Diplômé, Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, Mr Mag. Gerald KLUG, Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, and Mr. Landes police director Mag. Hans Peter DOSKOZIL as Federal Minister for Defence and Sport has been appointed.’; Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity to express a warm word of thanks to Rudolf Hundstorfer for his years of work as the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection. [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this meeting, I would also like to remind you that today's plenary meeting takes place on the anniversary of the liberation of the National Socialist concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz. This day has been proclaimed by the United Nations as an international holocaust commemorative day, and there are also commemorative events throughout Austria, in numerous communities and cities tonight. Parliament not only thought of this important event in the context of an event, but also in the Epstein Palace an exhibition on the National Socialist medical crimes is shown. I would like to inform you that we have decided to extend the exhibition duration because there is great interest in this exhibition; it is open to the public until Saturday. I still announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[09:10:16]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e11999	We now arrive at the current hour with the title: ‘Climate protection as Austria’s central responsibility: Those who take the Paris agreement seriously shall not sell the OMV to Gazprom!’ First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. The honourable Member, your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12026	Madam President. Federal Minister! If you look at the activities of the Federal Government, you have the impression that there is only one topic in the past half-year, which is more or less oriental, sometimes helpless, at least very hectic. In reality, however, there are much more problems that still need to be solved, problems of great scope. Today, we are concerned to see whether the Austrian Federal Government is willing to implement the Paris decisions according to the objectives – world climate summit – or not. Yes, it even raises the question of whether there is at all a strategy on this matter or not. If we look at the environmental budgets or the events that are now taking place – even if only mediumly possible – around the OMV, then it is concluded that one must confidently fear that such a strategy does not exist. But this is actually a kind finding, because if we remember how Deutsche Telekom – in what almost patched way – changed the owners to the detriment of Austria, then we can certainly talk about bad fears here. Well, how does that relate to the climate summit? – It is logical that we, as part-owners of such a strategicly important company, need to turn to how it continues to stand. Now, however, to the events and to the happy – you have to hold this – results of Paris: The results were, of course, only on a target level, but many major global changes, if we could see what was positive, have often started – most often – such events; that is why we can only underestimate them. We don't have anything at all from an OMV director or from a board chief who always tells about eye-to-face: Well, that's not so important anyway, until 2050 we'll be driving the game so well! - I don't know what boat he's in. Of course, he can assume that this is all for the fish anyway, and we continue to drive as before – and there we are – or we have a federal government that takes responsibility, the consequences and the results of the global climate summit decisions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That there is even more urgent need for action than many experts have always suspected, claimed, even proved, can be observed every day. It was not until yesterday that a study was published that the rise in the sea level was much faster and more dramatic than previously assumed. I don't have to tell you all this anymore, the extreme events are increasing. By the way, Austria and the Alpine region are one of the world regions in which this will be most striking, in the negative sense. But let us come to the economic and strategic issues which include these decisions. If we have agreed on targets there, we will not be able to prevent the implementation of instruments at national level for the time being. Well, what are these? In Austria, we have the impression – the global climate summit is now two months ago – that the only activity that has existed is the efforts of Mr Umweltminister to increase his traffic on Twitter. - That's too little! Now let's look at the real facts. With these decisions, there are also opportunities for the economy, especially for those countries that understand this and move as pioneers – and not as imitators. Unfortunately, we have to note that Austria has become a complete follow-up to environmental, energy and environmental technologies in the 1990s, with all the economic disadvantages that the Austrian economy can suffer in the future. If we look at where investment can now be stimulated and where not, then we note that the environmental budget has made dramatic cuts: in the field of energy and climate funds, in the field of environmental promotion and, above all, in the field of thermal rehabilitation. This is a reduction of a third to a reduction of half. That's dramatic! But what are the economic consequences? – Up to 10 000 jobs are less, because investments are still half a billion because they are not stimulated accordingly! Now you could say that's nothing new. – Yes, all the more stupid the condition that no longer happens here when the necessary and meaningful is so close. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No, you move it away, you look away. Austria is obviously less likely to play a role in these issues. But this will not come about with a credible strategy. Proposing credible strategy: Now, when we hit the bridge to this emerging next OMV-debakel – please watch out in the ranks of the Social Democrats: You have already made a very public statement, not because the climate is such a concern to you, but because you are rightly afraid that the same hole will happen again as at Telekom – then we see the following findings: First of all, it is not surprising how the OMC stands economically. Peter Pilz and I have pointed out for many years what it means to let people like Mr Sigi Wolf continue to work at the head of the ÖIAG, who has only strengthened the entire drama in the OMV; that Sigi Wolf, who has been sitting on the lap with Mr Putin for many years and is obviously in the process of organizing an oligarch import to Austria via gas pipelines. But this is, as it were, also the climate-related component in history: Because the OMC is so funny because it has invested in completely false exploration rights that are far too expensive – that has nothing to do with the current oil price – it wants to continue – and that is exactly the wrong strategy. Now you could say: Well, what else should an oil company do than promote oil? – Well, many industries have already had to change, and this is exactly what it is all about. There you will need something more imaginative than ever syndicating with the Abu Dhabis and galloping in the wrong direction. At least that would be a credible approach. We do not demand that you shake this out of the sleeve now, Mr. Federal Minister, but that you look critically. By the way, you have also promised – I highly expect it, we have a useful basis for discussion – that you look at what comes from the OMV and then, of course, take a position here in accordance with the new rules of the ÖBIB. Only: We are already used to what is happening now, that is why we have linked this to the present situation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's going on? – It turns out that due to a completely missing previous commercial investment policy of the OMV – always wrong – it is still wrong to go wrong, but now from a national economic perspective. Where should the future be – in 30, 40, 50 years – when we acquire rights in Western Siberia? This may be the case if everyone is whistling on the climate summit anyway. Well, do we have to be there? – I mean: No, no, no, You can choose it, we live in a democracy; then the globe stops on the wall! But it also goes smarter, twice smarter, in order to avoid at least the stupid. The whole thing is a little more complex in the business sector. It would be thought – because there is no cash in the OMV at all – to generate cash, and in doing so it would be really also popularly interesting parts, such as the networks that are still ecologically interesting, the gas networks, the gas storage, the refinery, or the conversion to cash – due to past false business policy. But what, because no cash is there, would you like to exchange? – It is clear: possibly participations in refineries, gas storage, in the worst case even in the networks that we could need even longer from an ecological point of view. For the time being, this is at a completely wrong level, unless, Minister, you, in the name of the Federal Government, can take these fears and say: No, Telekom won't repeat, we won't do a great oligarch, political and economic import here. It will not be like the Telekom that at the end a Mexican billionaire is conducting around in Austria. That would be a signal to the National Council at least once. If you have public participations – otherwise you have to separate yourself – you also have a responsibility to look at how these are managed in the best sense of the word. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, one cannot begin to look at several levels together in a timely and up-to-date manner, and this could be the result of the long-term OMC strategy: Rush from oil – by the way – from gas in the medium term – we are not naïve and say that can happen morgen, but in the medium term out. That is why we need to look at the investments. Yes, and there have also been power-producing companies that fought the wind power up to the blood ten to twenty years ago. What are they doing today? – They invest in wind power, and so the change must happen. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Exactly!]] Either we can use the capitalist system in this matter, or it drives to the wall and the people unfortunately. There is also a responsibility for a nation state, especially when one points out in Paris and says: We're great! – Now tell us how great we really are!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12092	Mr Schelling spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12113	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the screens and on the visitor gallery! Mr Kogler, known to be the OMV, is a listed company, with approximately 43 percent of which are located in the scatter, the Republic currently holds 31.5 percent, the IPIC 24.9 percent. [[Abg. Brunner: Risk Capital!]] – Mrs Colleague, we are happy to deal with the issue of risk capital afterwards. I'd like to explain to you what that is. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Loacker.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The title of this current hour alone is already wrong, because it is not even intended to sell parts of the OMV to the Gazprom, because that would mean that we are changing the shareholder structure. And with regard to the change in the shareholder structure, it would mean that we must agree with the contract we have with the IPIC. And it would also mean that if such a sale were to take place, actually the question is: Who's selling? – I can assure you that the Republic is not! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Exchange! That's the trick!]] – Again, I also explain to you the difference between shares and asset swap. [[Abg. Korun: Please don't go down like that!]] – You too, no question at all! [[General hustle and bustle.]] It's not a problem at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: It's in the record anyway!]] So listen. You just want to abuse rumors that are harmful to the capital market, which are harmful to the location, in order to make political change! It is one of the most important companies in Austria, which has so far established itself in a structure with which it provides good supply for the site, for the energy supply. That developments in the market are completely different and that a company that suddenly faces the fact that the oil price is $30 instead of $100, has to think about how it is strategic, is the command of the hour for the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board and for the value-keeping of the shares of that Republic. If they did not, they would act negligently. Therefore, they are concerned with this strategy and are considering how the company can be set up to make it more independent of the oil and gas price – and I think this is a sensible strategy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If a partner with whom we have been working for a long time since 1994, namely the IPIC, a Abu Dhabi State Fund, would really want to leave, then there would be quite clear conditions for buying these shares. If you'd ever been more intense about it, you'd know we'd have a pre-purchasing right, of course. It is therefore absolutely clear that the main issue now is to conduct the negotiations. And, of course, all these calls, including former State Secretary and Board members of large companies, are disturbing, who should actually be aware of their responsibility for the market. These calls are disrupting the negotiations of the Republic, which we are now conducting in order to extend the contract with the IPIC. The Treaty expires this year, and we are in the middle of these discussions, as ÖBIB with the IPIC, how and in what way this Treaty, strategicly oriented, can be extended for the benefit of the Republic. It is therefore not beneficial to try to make political change here with all possible stagings. Then you could also find out here, Mr Kogler, and tell us where you have the information that is sold to the Gazprom, except perhaps from the “standard”. [[Abg. Brosz: That's what we're doing, isn't it?]] That could be, but if you had questioned it, you'd have come up with it: This project doesn't exist at all! The second thing that always stands in the room is the sale, I like to explain to you. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Midleinner in Moscow!]] - Excuse me? The call, please! – Yes, please ask Mr Vice-Chancellor whether it makes sense that we continue to try to represent Austrian interests in these countries. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Mittellehner-Reise!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You sit in the Council of Ministers...!]] I think it's useful. By the way, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany also has the right to travel, and I think it is appropriate for us to return to orderly conditions. [[It is in favour of the ÖVP, of Members of the NEOS and of Deputies Weninger and Strache.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, for those who deal so intensively with the capital market and risk capital: You could also look at how the course of the OMV has moved since these statements. I can tell you, I immediately called the people and asked: Is it so that politics governs the company again? – That may be the case in the company where Mrs. Ederer works, in the ÖBB, but in the OMV we have a little over 30 percent and have corresponding partners there. By the way, there are no organ decisions on the whole point you are addressing here, there is also no supervisory decision to do so, there are not even the assets that have been established yet, there is not even an assessment of these assets in my knowledge – and you all are pretending to have done so over the stage. Of course, we as owners are interested in how this works, and therefore I will be informed at the time when what is planned at all, and then we will say whether we are for it or against it – but not at a time when it is speculated what is harmful to the share of this company, and this damage will continue to happen. Therefore, the new Chairman of the Board of Management clearly has the task of setting up the strategy in such a way that this company is still a strong Austrian company in the future. I can say that the OMV has already distributed more than 1 billion dividends to the Republic, and I am glad if the strategy went up so that these dividends continue to be available to us. Ladies and gentlemen, to sell the so-called Gas Connect. The Gas Connect – I don't even know if it's planned now – is completely under regulatory protection of the E-Control, regardless of who the owner is. Therefore: The regulator defines how to use the networks, the regulator sets the prices how to pass through, and if my knowledge is correct, the user who operates the network receives a guaranteed interest rate in the calculation of the transit fees, I think, 4 percent. But the influence of the state is given regardless of who would actually be the owner of one, I do not know, of the sale of the Gas Connect. The last point, the asset swaps, which always stand in the room: That is what Mr Kogler has already announced. Of course, the OMC has made investments in the past – and I do not understand why the current board is being set up here – that may no longer expect today. And that's a point where you need to think about it, of course: How to solve the problem? This, in turn, is related to: What is the price of oil and gas, and what can be achieved there? I therefore believe that it is right that the OMC, under the leadership of the Executive Board, is setting up a strategy project where it says: How do we want to set up in the long term to be a safe, Austrian, strategicly important company? The fulfilment of this task is what is happening now. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to discuss at a current hour in which we can discuss the question of climate, which is related to a notoriously widespread sale to the Gazprom. I don't think that's fair. I think that's absolutely essential. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I believe that we are all required to ensure that a company owned by the Republic of Austria and thus by the Austrians is in a good future. The Board of Directors is working on this, and it will take part in it at the end of the owners. And that's why: Yes, you may be happy to worry about them, but they do not have any basis. That is why I would like to ask you to do away with further words that are harmful to the company in the future! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] [[Abg. Brosz: This is not a subject for Parliament!]] If you take the view – if I could ask you the question: [[Abg. Brosz: The arrogance virus has already arrived with you!]] [[Further calls for Greens]] How do you manage a company in which you have 31 percent shares? From your point of view, are 31 percent the majority in the company? - Obviously not. [[Abg. Brosz: Do you have a political responsibility, yes or no?]] That is why we need partners to produce majority voting, and we have made these with the contract with the IPIC, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12352	The next item is the report by Mr Katzian. From now on, the speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12373	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Several attempts have been made in the introduction to sell a link between the topics of OMC to Gazprom and to establish a climate summit. I don't think it was successful. These are two topics that, if you have a lot of imagination, you can already connect with each other, but I think you should look at each other and discuss each other for yourself. I take note of the results of the Climate Summit in particular of the fact that there is a common understanding at global level for the first time as regards the needs of climate protection. This sounds as if this is a bit of a matter of course, but we all know that many negotiations, many activities in recent years, have needed to get so far. It will therefore be necessary to address a whole range of measures at European and national level from the results of this climate summit. In the afternoon, for example, we will send the Energy Infrastructure Act on the journey to improve procedures in the infrastructure. As far as the sale of the OMC to the Gazprom is concerned, I would like to say at the outset that from my point of view this sale is not a debate. It is not the Federal Government's plan to sell the OMV – we have just heard that – nor do I see in the company a longing for a new owner for the OMV. As simple as some are, this is not what the Minister of Finance has clearly explained. But the debates on this subject and on other issues in recent weeks show clearly that there are very large and up-to-date upheavals in the energy sector and that these changes do not go beyond any trace in the large Austrian companies. Such a low oil price, which makes everyone speechless, a gas market with massive overcapacity and a electricity market, where everyone questions where the business model has remained, are the conditions with which we have to deal with it. The old assurances, the old plans, have been swept away by both global and regional developments, with partly bizarre effects. We have discussed this several times here. Just think of the renaissance of coal in power generation or the helpless but short-term successful attempt to reestablish nuclear energy. All these are developments that we know and where we need to do the opposite. In this situation, in which there is great uncertainty not only in the management days of the energy companies, but especially among the employees in the energy companies, some unfortunately discover the calling to the prophet, in order to say that with very simple solutions, very complex systems can be changed very quickly, so nothing, nothing. I believe that this is not the case, that we also need to discuss this complex matter very complexly and then break down on appropriate common work packages that we undertake and then implement accordingly. It must also be clear that for many things of daily life, there are no presentable alternatives, such as where oil and natural gas are used not energetically but as a material. We have a high import rate for fossil raw materials, a small part we still produce ourselves. This import dependence is often presented as a threat to the economic location. To be honest – and this should also be said – I cannot fully understand this, especially when it comes to supplies from Russia, where we have been providing sufficient natural gas for 48 years over all the heights and depths of the Cold War and all the upheavals that have occurred in the East. There are no geopolitically safe countries of origin. If we look around the world, we'll see that. That's why you have to look at this very carefully. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right! That's right! Is the problem of fossil energy!]] Secured energy supply is an essential part of economic development. Yes, we must and will go more in the field of renewable energy, but we must not throw the existing structures over the pile, nor hope that the market will somehow regulate this for us. The path of major changes in the energy industry needs strong, predictable players, even in the ownership of the public. And I assume that this will be – but not only – the OMV now and also in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12412	The next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Minzig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12433	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen. In this current hour, colleagues from the Greens link two topics, whose causal context is very superficial, because climate protection cannot be pushed into the shoes of a management company. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Not at all!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Nevertheless, Austria not only takes the Paris Treaty very seriously, but has already proved its responsibility in the past in the field of climate protection. [[Abg. Rossmann: But you don't believe that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] The implementation of the agreement is an important part, an essential task of the Austrian Federal Government. Austria and the EU have always been pioneers in climate protection. But through this agreement, the times of unaccorded and almost site-damaging single entrances in Europe – Europe emits 10 percent – are finally over. Austria will meet climate change targets by 2020. With the climate report, we have also shown that both 2013 and 2014 the ceilings have been lowered. The Austrian industry – especially with the OMV – has also made a significant contribution to this. This has also succeeded in decoupling our industrial growth from CO2 emissions. The Climate Change Treaty has now created the necessary level of competition. But it is also important when implementing that we look at ensuring our economic location and our employment in the same way. The OMC will also play an important role in this process, like many other management companies. The two primary energy sources of oil and gas – Mr Katzian has already mentioned it – will still play an essential role in the coming decades. [[Abg. Brunner: You disagree within a set of five times!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That only brings you together!]] - That's right! With its new management level, the OMV sets itself up at changed conditions and is forward-looking in setting the course. Political calls, from any side, are certainly not acceptable to a listed company. [[Abg. Kogler: Your coalition partner!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... Responsibility!]] They are insecure financial markets, they are insecure the 25 000 workers and ultimately the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also to be seen at the stock price. You know that you do a huge damage internationally. Of course, with our 31.5 percent share of the largest energy supplier and also the largest employer in Austria, we have strategic interest, and our Finance Minister takes his role as owner very, very seriously, protects jobs and the location from yield and corporate interventions and calls. But one thing has to be clear: There is no sales order concerning OMV. In terms of long-term security of supply, however, international partnerships are very important and also very reasonable. Mutual participation ensures security of supply at all, which is the basic prerequisite for our economic location and also for our jobs. The following also needs to be clarified: One cannot automatically talk about a sale to the Gazprom in the event of a planned minority participation in the Connect via a bidder competition. As has been stressed several times by the management of the company, the Gazprom is more unlikely to acquire the share. Regardless of that, a realization of the sale of these minority shares in the OMV subsidiary contributes to the balance sheet and cash flow strength of the Group's mother and also optimizes the portfolio. In addition – the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it – the Connect is also independent of the ownership structure under the observation of the E-Control. Strengthening OMV in international competition, sustainable strategic orientation are the best means for the site and related jobs. I have full confidence in my former BASF collegiate CEO Dr. Zeel, who is not only an excellent chemist but also a responsible manager. Finance Minister Schelling, also an experienced manager and entrepreneur, will accompany and monitor this path. Ladies and gentlemen! They do not help the company with public calls, but only by letting the professionals work without political pressure. And think of it beyond the borders!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12566	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12588	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Schelling! What Mrs.ck has said is not wrong in the matter – let us say that. I don't mean to say it's not quite right, but it's not wrong. But it's far too short. That's not the point! We know anyway that the state does not control the OMV to 100 percent, and we also know what is good and bad for the operation. But what has not been said, which is very important, is the damage that the OMC policy has done in recent years. We need to see the following: An important business area of the OMV is gas trade. This includes almost one third of the income of this group. That's where you've done everything you can to damage the company. There have been attempts to expand Austria into one of the largest gas hubs in the European continent; we are already part of it. Baumgarten is one of the big gas spindles. No one has seriously proposed replacing gas with wind power or solar energy. No one has said that the OMV must give up its current business model and alternatively produce biogas, wind and solar energy. I never heard of that – not even of the Greens. So the question is: How can this group, which basically promotes, negotiates and processes what is called fossil energy? – Policy has killed the possibilities of alternative gas supply routes. There was the Nabucco project, in which the OMC put dozens of millions and enormous energies in preliminary work and pre-planning, which made sense, which would have led to diversification of sources of origin for gas and which would have made Austria a centre. This was deliberately turned on American pressure, because Iran might have been able to feed something into this line. And the EU, which should pursue Austrian and European interests, has come back on the American train again, has put pressure on it. The project is collapsing. The next one was South Stream, a project in which an alternative route would have been created via Bulgaria. It was turned off. By means of EU printing, Bulgaria has refused to have the management built in its area. That was the end of it. Another source for Austria, for the OMV, locked for Baumgarten. This was scurryly justified by the possibility – under quotation marks – of taking the “rust” of dealing with the Ukrainian network systems and removing Ukraine’s income. That already shows whose mind this line of reasoning is. One prefers to harm oneself, depends on a crisis area such as the Ukrainian-Russian border area. Only in order to get rid of a political sage here and perhaps damage Russia will Europe massively harm itself and try to make itself dependent on vulnerable, politically sensitive lines. In fact – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Katzian – the deliveries and cooperation with Russia, whether communist or not, have worked well. There was a single interruption in the time of Timoshenko, Jushchenko in Ukraine, when Ukraine stole the gas from the pipelines and the Russians were forced to turn on the cock for a few days. That was the case. But this would all the more call for policy to become independent of these sources of supply. To say, we import liquid gas from the USA – which is now a very big topic – or from Qatar or Algeria – the large liquid gas supplier – that cannot be a reasonable alternative. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Apart from the fact that Austria is not known to be by the sea and the gas-liquiding and gas-gasification plants are therefore certainly not in Austria and we are excluded from trading with these sources, these countries of origin, Algeria, Qatar and Co, are certainly more uncertain than Russia. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What are “gasification plants ”?]] Unfortunately, since the OMC is actually in a certain wrong position, it has misinvested – not out of its own fault, but because of market development now wrong – since it has the highest funding costs in the oil sector, since the margins in the other business areas such as petrochemistry borealis are also falling, it is logical not to take away or block reasonable cooperation from the company due to the overcapacity. The entry into a gas field in western Siberia, about which it is here, is certainly the most convenient thing to do today, because the prices for participation in this area are as low as they have not been for decades. There is the overcapacity, the gas price decline and the political pressure on Russia, which is caused by the sanctions in a serious one, let us say that there is a foreign exchange crisis; it is not an economic crisis yet, but a serious foreign exchange crisis. The OMV could enter a huge, one of the largest gas fields here at a discount price. Due to the high indebtedness, the OMC cannot be expected to do so on pump and pay out cash, but to allow for participations in daughters that bind the Gazprom even more closely to the OMV – and not vice versa. This is probably a reasonable process. That is why I cannot understand this title of the Greens for the present hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12632	Mrs Mag. Brunner's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12709	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! We have a global climate agreement. That's the positive message once. – So much for the title of the current hour. ==References== December 2015 was a historic day. The whole world has decided: The age of fossil energies is over. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For the first time, it has succeeded in deciding uniformly – many have not believed in climate conferences at all. But it was a very positive experience that the state community stands together here, sends a clear signal and clearly says where the trip is going. The State community says: We want to address this climate crisis, we want to deal with it and we want to do something about it! – All the states of this earth, including Austria! It's about looking at: How do we continue to deal with this climate agreement in Austria? How do we put it into practice? What does the climate agreement mean? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The decisions of Paris mean that we have to get out of fossil energies by 2050 – decarbonisation, Minister of Finance! That means zero CO2 emissions net and 100 percent renewable energy by 2050. This is a great challenge, I agree, but it is also an even greater opportunity for those who are now dealing with it. Everyone will move in this direction. Those who start now, those who are at it faster, will benefit from it. This is a huge opportunity for the Austrian economy. Those who hesitate now will become the fossils, and the only place will be in the museum. The climate agreement of Paris is not perfect, but it is very good. The central message that was given is: It is now up to the governments, it is now up to the parliaments to translate and implement this treaty into law. And that will be the bar for us in the next days, weeks, months and years. However, the following is clear: We must start implementation immediately. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It needs strategies in various areas, that is quite clear, but there is also a lot on the table, much that we can do immediately. I would look at myself in your resort alone: How much money, how much tax money does Austria spend on counterproductive measures for the promotion of fossil energies? – I don’t think anyone spends private money on the opposite of what you really want. The Republic of Austria does. That's what we need to look at and stop right away. The budget cuts in climate protection have been raised by my colleague, Mr Kogler, and you have not responded to that, Minister of Finance. This does not correspond to this climate agreement, which we have to deal with, improve, and there we have to invest in climate protection. One of the most central measures is finally an ecologicalisation of the tax system. No government will ever find another such favorable time as we now have it. We have this climate agreement, a clear signal from the state community, we have a low oil price, which is actually bad for the climate, but for climate policy something positive, because now we can use the opportunities of an ecological tax reform without much debate about stress and discharge, and take turns in such a way that we can all live well in 10, 20 and 50 years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This climate agreement also means that every single decision – I would like to share with you all – must fulfil every single decision we make here, the measuring bar of this climate agreement. In the word “decision” I refer to structural and corporate decisions, and I am now explaining to you what this has to do with the OMV. Decarbonisation by 2050 means that two thirds of all known fossil resources must remain in the soil. Money invested in these fossil resources will be nothing more valuable. That is, it must be a strategic consideration for us, which means for the shares that the Republic has. And it must be a job, economic and location policy, as we can keep a company like the OMV. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] A strategy focused on fossils will not be targeting here, because we will lose jobs. BP has recently announced that it will delete 4,000 jobs. It must therefore be in our interest to keep the OMV, to influence the strategic orientation. The OMV has enough know-how that we can do well for the energy transition. It's our job to make sure she does. We will have to put in place many, many other measures. My hope is that if almost 200 parties in Paris have succeeded in establishing a unanimous good climate agreement, then in this Parliament, with six parties, it must be able to implement this climate agreement efficiently and purposefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12803	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12824	Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! The theme is chosen by the Greens: ‘Climate protection as Austria’s central responsibility: Those who take the Paris agreement seriously shall not sell the OMV to Gazprom!’ I would like to look at three points. The first is a reality check on how much these topics are related. The second is: What are, in fact, measures necessary under the Paris Convention on Climate Change? The third is: What are the economic opportunities for Austria? First point, the reality check: That doesn't fit, that doesn't fit any cow's skin. I can explain that exactly, too. In Paris, it was basically a question of the national states, as in this case, the European Union, having committed themselves together to a reduction, as Mr Brunner has already said, to drive an exit from oil and gas by 2050. How did you want to do that? – There were several elements, one through incentives towards the economy, the other through clear legal frameworks. And that is precisely the responsibility of politics. We have to give clear framework conditions that mean planning for the economy, and corresponding regulations so that the whole thing also develops in the right direction. We do not have the responsibility to intervene directly in economic mechanisms. You have to say that quite clearly here. The next point to be mentioned here is that, as far as we have at least seen it, we are not planning to sell the OMV at all. That means you're trying once again to revitalize the economy against the environment. Our challenge in the 21st century. But the century is to connect economy with the environment. It's totally wrong. The second point, and that is what could actually have been the subject, even in the current hour, is the question: How do we deal with the Paris Treaty? It would have been better if you had left the topic of OMV outside and asked: How do we deal with the Treaty, what are the next steps to achieve our common objectives? You know exactly that we have agreed that Austria's objectives will first be set at European level, which is to be expected in the coming weeks. We expect a reduction of 40 percent of emissions by 2030. Where would the discourse take place here? – There are several areas. The industry is an area that you are constantly facing in the first place. However, it must be said quite clearly that in two areas we are clearly pioneers also in Europe: One is the reduction of emissions in the industrial sector, the second is that of thermal renovation, i.e. in building heat. There we are, we must not let it down, but we must not continue to press ahead. Where we really have a problem, that is in the field of transport. At the moment, politics is becoming massive. I would like to mention a few points where we also do not have a final answer, but of course many discussion proposals. One is, for example: How are we going to continue to promote housing in such a way that it leads to dispersal? The second is: Why are we putting billions of money into the shuttle fee to promote individual transport? There are also massive possibilities for policy-making. There's nothing from the greens. You're just scared, you're going to continue sending one and populist way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In essence, however, the Treaty of Paris has opened up clear possibilities for the Austrian economy, but that is not as sexy as it is to join the OMV; that is quite clear to me. What are the possibilities? – There is a strong goal to reduce global warming. We agreed to 2 percent in Paris, as a medium- and long-term option 1.5 percent. Even if the objectives are not yet realistic, this is about... – 1.5 degrees respectively 2 degrees, forgiveness. [[Abg. Brunner: Grad!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Grade, not percent!]] – It is mainly about the fact that those countries that have not done much at the moment now have a clear need to catch up. This, in turn, leads us to have clear export possibilities in different countries, both... [[Abg. Brunner: This is not in the contract!]] – No, that is not what the Treaty says, that is the possibility of the Austrian and European economies, Mrs Brunner, and that is exactly what is a weakness of the Greens. They are not talking about the possibilities of the European and Austrian economies, but they are talking about something that will never happen anyway. [[Abg. Brunner: Did you listen to me? That's exactly what I said!]] My point is that in Austria we are pioneers in various areas, such as waste management, filter technologies, in various areas of environmental technology. There we have great export possibilities, these are already being used. What could we do to strengthen the Austrian economy to make better use of these export opportunities? – In turn, this is not the OMV, but it is, quite banal and often mentioned, a reduction in the cost of work, a lower taxation in Austria. This promotes the economy, which promotes the possibilities of also promoting corresponding exports. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12918	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e12939	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not only here in Parliament, but also in front of the televisions! I think we all agree that a very important issue on the one hand is now at the heart of climate protection. We are all aware that something has to be done urgently. At this current hour, of course, climate change and environmental policy are very much mixed with economic policy. But that must also be the task for the future to achieve a strong shoulder closure in this regard. Let's get to the Paris climate agreement! This has been celebrated in the media, in the committees and also here in plenary as a milestone, although I think it is still a bit vague and in this agreement there is a very clear mandate to the national parliaments to make a clear commitment to an exit from fossil fuels – that is the central issue – in the case of electricity, heat, mobility, plastics and mineral fertilizers. There are the words, but the implementation, the actions are still very vague and still highly expandable. When it comes to realising the lip confessions from Paris through concrete measures, we are required, or are faced with a test sample, where we can prove right now that we are really taking this clear mission from Paris seriously. As I said, the words have been spoken, but the actions, I must say unfortunately, do not comply with those words in recent days. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to give two examples: Although the Minister has not confirmed this, of course this exchange of assets between OMV and Gazprom is in the room. As this will really end, we hope that we will: Find out next. But what I'm missing and what's such a bit of a fact: On the one hand, there is a clear mandate that we get out of fossil fuels, but on the other hand, we are considering further investments in gas fields. But if the statement and the tenor are quite clear that we have to get out of there, I think that's a contradiction. Another example was: A few days ago, a meeting of the Environment Committee took place. It was also about an hour's discussion of Paris, which was quite positive, and then 13 requests were on the agenda. I would like to take one that has actually gone exactly in this direction, namely the exit from coal streaming and, at the same time, the abolition of tax exemption in the production of electricity from coal. Only if we stop promoting fossil energy will we stop these emissions, protect the health of the population from the effects of particulate matter and strengthen the competitiveness of the alternative energy sources that we want to drive. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Köchl.]] A clear sign that the words followed would have been to accept this request. What happened instead? – This request and another 13 of which many have gone in this direction were postponed once again. That's something we just have to act on! We need to move from lip confessions to actions, to really deciduous planning and to develop strategies; the planning and strategy for energy beyond 2030 is still lacking. It is alleged that the Minister has announced that he will present the Energy Strategy by 2050 by December, and that we may already be very excited. The clear task is to let the words follow. Through planlessness and strategylessness, the population and the economy can already sing a song, the key to federal energy efficiency law, to the hosts who are plagued by registers, non-smoker regulations et cetera and who have to beat around.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13003	Next speaker: Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13024	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Not even twelve months ago, we dissolved the ÖIAG, and it was launched by the ÖBIB. The ÖIAG was therefore dissolved because of the serious mistakes that have occurred and because, above all, the governments in the Supervisory Board have done all that the owners did not really agree with; therefore, this re-establishment. Because that's still in our memory: Management error. It has been distributed for years more than deserved, the company has been totally weakened. There was then a search for a big partner who was also found. After two years, the industrial leadership was gone. Today we still have 28 percent shares as owners, but we have nothing more to say. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there has been a great deal of agreement that such a thing should no longer happen, and that is why we should be very vigilant now. Now to the OMV: My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, of course the OMV is Austria's largest listed industrial company, which is also known for very high environmental standards. The OMC is important for the industrial and research location Austria, and of course the current situation is anything but rosy. There are difficulties: the oil price, the cost of promoting the environment, including the environmental objectives that belong to finance. It is a great challenge that needs to be dealt with. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] In autumn there were the first media reports to do so. These are the only reports we have – at least at this time – and we have to stick to them. I am pleased when I hear what clear words you have spoken today, Minister of Finance Schelling, and that you are making a restriction or a privatisation, so you do not agree with that. But I already know the words of the responsible person in the OMV, who said before Christmas in the big “profile” interview: “For us, the Gas Connect is almost like a financial contribution. (...) First of all, we want to monetize the value (...).” – Yes, sell, knock! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Sell!]] And this is an approach, ladies and gentlemen, which at least we will certainly reject from our side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] At the same time, we read in the media that several foreign investors are already working, and we also learn from the media that the exchange of participation between OMV and Gazprom is very much on the rise. It is not said which parts are concerned. The chairman of the Supervisory Board of a very large eastern gas company is a little more direct and precise, which says what it is about, namely, refineries – and we only have two: Schwechat and Burghausen – and around the power grid. So if this is not insecure and if you do not want to become illegitimate, ladies and gentlemen, then I do not know either! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] That is why it is important for us to conduct the debate seriously, and it should be noted that this is a company in which the Republic of Austria is the largest single shareholder. It is about securing long-term strategic interests, because it is about energy security, it is about one of the most important infrastructures in Austria, and above all it is about the jobs of the colleagues employed there. We have experienced a lot in recent years, and we are also a little burnt children, ladies and gentlemen. For example, I recall the privatisation of Austrian tobacco: In 2011, the production plant was closed with the Hainburg plant. That wasn't really a preview privatisation. I also think of the AUA, which was given, and then 500 million more had to be shot, or of the Telekom I have mentioned today. I think it's really good to watch out and take care of it. I'm interested in what decision the OMC organs made on 18 November. February – an important Supervisory Board meeting will be held again. I just think the cards belong to the table; it must be over with the mystery. We expect the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board to propose a strategy for the future to bring the company back to a very optimistic zone. Finally, I say quite clearly: We will certainly be careful and will not accept that there will be privatisation through the back door through mutual participation and restraints. We will look closely at that, and the next few weeks will show the direction in which the institutions are driving the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13094	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13115	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! For my group, I would like to stress once again our line, our positions in three main points. First: There's no privatisation order. Secondly, The climate conference, which has already been discussed several times, is of course also seen as a very great success. But it is also clear that this much-quoted exit from fossil energy sources can only be done step by step. And thirdly, Privatization per se can also be something very positive, and I will do that more precisely. First of all: There's no privatisation order. What are the facts? – OMV is a listed company, the largest listed industrial company in Austria. The state holds a share of 31.5 percent over the newly established ÖBIB. And the ÖBIB can only operate if the Federal Government decides on a privatisation contract. However, this privatisation contract does not exist during the current legislative period, and therefore a privatisation of the OMV is not a debate. On the contrary: We confess to state property in the ÖBIB and to a professional management of this property. [[Abg. Kogler: Who “we”? Who Is “We ”?]] By the way, we believe that in a large infrastructure company, the ÖBB and the ASFINAG would have been part of it. It's very important: The OMC has organs – a board of directors and a Supervisory Board – that should exercise its functions independently, and these bodies should be left to work in peace. Media calls are really very helpful. If, for example, an asset deal is speculated in the media about an asset swap, then one must also say that this can also be something very positive if two partners talk about how to exchange assets – it's not about selling the assets, it's about an exchange – so that for both a win-win situation is created. An asset deal only makes sense if it fits both partners. The advantage for the OMV, for example, can be an increase in the security of supply in the case of natural gas, because – and that is clear, I will also address that – the exit from fossil energy takes its time and natural gas is, of course, a transitional technology; By the way, natural gas is also seen as one of the most greenhouse-friendly energy sources. Secondly, The climate conference in Paris brings the end of the fossil age. [[Abg. Brunner: 34 years...!]] I would also like to say this as a representative of a party that has long attached the principle of the orderly principle of eco-social thought to its flags. [[Abg. Brunner: Forget it!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Give up!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Eighties!]] It's very, very important to us! But it is quite clear, Mr Pirklhuber – and by the way all the experts agree – that this exit from fossil energy can only be done step by step. [[Abg. Brunner: But at some point you have to take the first step!]] This is where the economy and the environment have to be in balance, Mrs Brunner, otherwise it will not be because it is always about location issues and therefore also about jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Brunner: The eco-business will be the location question!]] We need to discuss this in a good way. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It is also particularly important for me to point out that, of course, a lot has already been achieved in Austria since 2005 as far as climate protection is concerned. – Thank you, Mrs Brunner, you almost concurred! Since 2005, we have had a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. When we compare the 2014 greenhouse balance with that of 2013, we also know that we can also record very nice successes. Clearly, if we want to get out of the way, far-reaching measures are needed now, but I do not think that it is all too serious to immediately catch up with the question of whether or not we are also increasing energy security. [[Abg. Brunner: Then it won't go out...!]] And thirdly, Privatizations are also success stories; it is important to me to keep that. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: For whom?]] If you observe the media discussion, if you observe the discussion of representatives of different interest groups, then you sometimes have the impression that privatisation is per se bad. However, the opposite is the case. I would like to give you an example, the voestalpine. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Have we had a luck! Water privatisation in London!]] You know: 1980, 1985 a serious crisis, the state company is highly deficient. It was then decided to privatize the Group. It's quite exciting to read what was then the reason that it didn't work. It is cited here: The cause of the crash was political influence, abuse of the company as a state-owned employment reserve, changes in the international environment, erodement of individual companies and so on, and so on. So we should also learn from history, because if we look at how voestalpine AG stands today, this is also a success story. This company now has 500 Group companies and locations in more than 50 countries on all five continents, employs 48 000 employees worldwide. Sometimes we might also need to listen to what the CEO says when it comes to investment. We must be very careful to ensure that our location remains competitive. And what I find very interesting in voestalpine AG: The employees hold there – as of 2013 – 14 percent of the shares. This is the largest employee participation in Austria. This would not have been possible for a state-owned company; that is my conviction. In summary, I would like to say that the sale of the OMV is not a discussion that we are really delighted about the results of the Paris climate conference and that there are privatizations that are really a success story. Finally, I would like to say that I am convinced that our Minister of Finance is well represented by our own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13278	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13299	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The title, which was chosen for this current hour today, is a bit scurry. [[Abg. Loacker: It can’t be called any ‘... chaos’!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Those who take the Paris agreement seriously must not sell the OMC to the Gazprom. Mrs Brunner, you have spoken of a historic day in the light of the Paris agreement; we can all remember – Mrs Weigerstorfer has also mentioned it – how we went to the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection with Euphoria and enthusiasm, whose chairman you are. However, in the final effect, all agenda items were postponed – as usual. [[Call at the FPÖ: This is the reality!]] [[Abg. Brunner: That must change too!]] – This is the reality, as is done here in Parliament, of how applications are handled by the opposition. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Minister also mentioned it, therefore only briefly: OMV is a listed company in international competition. Where and how the OMV expands its business areas, of course, the management is the responsibility of the company. The decision on the nature of the business areas is, of course, retained by the Management Board and also by the Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Lugar: Keep up!]] If, for economic reasons, management is thinking of an expansion, another business field – also with the Gazprom – the Greens see the task of all our Austrian climate targets. – One has absolutely nothing to do with the other! This is not the way we want to go. One important point, Mrs Brunner: If you have listened carefully and carefully to the last committee, you have seen what your objectives are. [[Abg. Brunner: mine?]] . The Greens, your group as a whole. You see very well: Due to the current decline in oil prices, due to the current falling fuel prices, you want to introduce an eco-tax, and with this you generally want to tax all the citizens of that country. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Eco-tax reform!]] – This eco tax will not exist with us, but it is your goal! – No, no, Mrs Colleague, this is a non-social measure and not just a non-social measure, but also an anti-economic measure! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brunner: Then say: We ignore the climate agreement! Say it! Either!]] [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] And the best thing is: It is not just an anti-economic measure, it is even a criminal measure. They're always talking about the regions. That's why you're cavering out the regions! Now people have to commute anyway. This eco-tax will certainly not exist with us. And above all, what is still an essential effect: In these times of the highest unemployment of the Second Republic to introduce an eco-tax, that is an insanity. They want to continue to burden and punish citizens. There will certainly be no such thing as this with us. What we need is the exit from the coal streaming – an essential factor. Not even half of it is used for energy, but most of it is pumped in the form of heat. Our sustainable goal can only be to invest and put on renewable energy, and there are incentives. I also say this in the direction of the Minister for Finance: For example, the rate of VAT can be reduced by 50 percent to 10 percent. – These would be incentives! In this way, we could also promote environmental protection. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We can discuss this!]] And that would also be an engine for the eco-economics and also for a job offensive in the green jobs. These would be measures, as we imagine them, for a sustainable climate policy and environmental policy. [[Abg. Brosz:... was the FPÖ against it!]] Let's force the wind! Let's force the water! Let's force the sun! Of course, we need decision-makers to implement this. Austria has geographical and also landscaped the best possibilities – that is not the need – and, of course, it needs to be implemented by the Federal Government, which is also required here. [[Abg. Brunner: These will help when the fossils are taxed!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13491	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13514	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It won't help if you put your head in the sand – things are actually on the table here! Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues have also explained this: It is a fact, and no one here has disputed from the speaker's desk that climate change is affecting us all. The north-west passage of the Arctic, the melting of the glaciers in Antarctica, the reports of the last days over two meters of loss of glacier mass on the Dachstein, which will affect the Alps quite massively, all of this already has an impact on our quality of life and will also have a serious impact in Austria from agriculture to tourism. – That, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact! The other positive thing that Mr Brunner really brings into this house with an emphatically and always full of energy is: Yes, if the international community achieves an international climate agreement in Paris in December, then the mission must be to commission the Federal Government, commission for us national councils and national councils that take decisions together here, and also order for you, Mr. Federal Minister, as the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for how much money in this Republic is actually used for the transformation of the energy economy, how much opportunities climate protection is available today and tomorrow, but also is responsible for those participations of the Republic where we have design possibilities. And 31.5 percent, held by Austrian ÖBIB in the OMC Group, together in the syndicate agreement with the IPIC, which is right, that is a strategic participation – a strategic participation, which concerns the future of this company that we want to co-shape with Greens, namely, that we want to contribute constructively to the climate change aspect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I would like to read to you from a 2006 press release by former chairman Ruttenstorfer, that is, ten years ago. What did Ruttenstorfer mean then? ‘In the context of increased oil prices’, the OMC Group is now expected to take a ‘new start’ in the area of ‘renewable energies’, said Ruttenstorfer, even if the oil price is restored’, Please hear, Minister of State! – "will go back to the area of $30 or $40 per barrel. To quantify the percentage to be ‘renewable’, for example, in a decade in the OMV, the Director-General intends to quantify in one or two years’. Ten years ago, ladies and gentlemen, the OMC on the Board of Directors was so ready to see that renewable energies must be a central strategy for the future of this group. – Nothing else do we want Greens, and we ask for nothing else from the Federal Government and from you, except for the strategic involvement of the Austrian Republic in this company too! Ladies and gentlemen! Why is this so up-to-date? ==References== Your colleague, Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, will be in Moscow together with the head of the OMV Rainer Soul, where talks will be held in the highest economic circles. Is that a coincidence? - I don't think so. Rainer Wimmer has done here the rescue of honor for the government fractions, inasmuch as he has stoned and clearly said what is fact. The Asset exchange, ladies and gentlemen, is not acceptable. It cannot be that essential infrastructure elements such as gas supply are exchanged with an international – even if it is a supplier – player when it threatens the potential of this company in the long term. – Mr Federal Minister, you have been asked to take decisive action here! I would like to comment positively on a fund, the OMV Future Energy Fund. The OMV Future Energy Fund GmbH was founded ten years ago, has not even its own homepage, but has so far launched good projects. I mention as an example – that you see that there are opportunities to do something like that – how to convert solar energy, how to convert wind current into hydrogen and develop a storage technology that can also be distributed in a gas network; Hydrogen could be fed immediately via the gas grid. It is also one of the most central strategies to introduce renewable energies into the existing system. In this direction, ladies and gentlemen, the OMC must continue to develop. This debate today is very important, we will keep going. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13588	Mr Schellhorn, you are next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13609	Madam President. Estimated Minister! You are right, Mr Pirklhuber, the environmental issue is a very important one, and it is also important which strategies we are pursuing, which I just don't understand, that you drift into such populism. As the Minister of Finance has clearly and clearly stated, this is a cooperation and not a sale, but according to the title of this current hour - as you judge - it is a sale, and that is completely incorrect! In this respect, I also do not understand my colleagues and your colleagues Pilz. When I hear these arguments, I have to say that as an entrepreneur I never want to hand over these two – unfortunately they are not in space – to my company for just one day. What's this about? – If you want this to be an Austrian company, you need to buy everything back de facto, then you have to increase the 31.5 percent if we can afford it. Given the disciplined budget culture of our country, it is certainly not a problem to take up a few billions, which we have already tried at the hypo. So we buy back the missing shares, then we can also talk about a sale! Previously we cannot talk about a sale, before we can only talk about a cooperation. Let me explain why this cooperation must come about! – We are concerned about the strategic orientation in recent years, when the holding company called ÖIAG, when Mr. Kemler and Mr. Roiss decided that they are investing in Norway and therefore have long-term contracts that bind billions! And if a company with 6 billion debts still has to accept debts – even in the last few years – in order to be able to pay dividends, this shows that it is no longer rosy about this company. This already shows that this cooperation with Nord Stream, with Gazprom, will probably also be important, because otherwise there may be no jobs. I am then excited about the reactions of Mr Wimmer and Mr Katzian. Learn history, comrades! Learn history as far as debt making does not create jobs and the influence of politics in a company has never achieved profits, but only cost money and destroyed jobs! That's the jumping point. Learn history, comrades! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What's this about? – A company such as the OMV simply needs a free hand to be able to operate business in order to secure itself and not to be exposed to the influence and inflection of Mr. Schieder and Mr. Pilz. No one needs it. How can I actually understand that? – Mr Pilz considers it difficult to influence Mr Putin or the Gazprom, but at Abu Dhabi, he has no problems with the Arabs, that goes on at once?! – It's all going to be woven up, everything's wrong. By the way, another argument on his part, why I would never and never leave a company to him: Under the Paris agreement, he said, then we must stop our cars. – I look at how real this is, which refusal of reality is displayed here. I think it is important to think of 2050 too, because I give colleagues Pirklhuber and Mr Brunner absolutely right, but because of her approaches – they have not yet made reasonable proposals, how we can secure the company OMV, how we can secure the strategic orientation – I am absolutely in this respect and in this respect with the Minister of Finance: no interference on the political side! That is why this is only the responsibility of the Minister. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13663	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13685	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister of Finance! Appreciated spectators and youth on the gallery and on the televisions! (The speaker places a table that, as the title suggests, is a graphic “production of palm oil worldwide in the years 2002/03 to 2015/16 (in millions of tons)” on the speaker’s desk.) - To the table: A picture says more than a thousand words! I am actually very surprised at the current debate, especially the Green Group's colleagues, and I have great problems with voting in the Green Club. It was Joschka Fischer, the German Parade Green, the companion of the Nabucco Pipeline, who acted as an advisor for the OMV, who held a pro-pro-pro-preser at the Oberbank in Linz, how necessary this pipeline is for Austria. And I think one of your founders and now candidate for the Federal President's election will probably not happen to have made this head position that he is now suddenly making a clear stand for TTIP and for Group policy in the course of his candidate as a greener. [[Abg. Brosz: Don't do it at all!]] - Please! Read the paper, Mr. Collegue, the "Presse" of 23. December! If you want, you can have it in writing, I've cut out the article. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: But there you are completely on the wrong steamer!]] These are the facts, you must not deny that – especially if you are with the Green Group. I have taken this board with me because it is because palm oil production has doubled over the last ten years, but the greens have not taken up this issue. [[point to the panel on the speaker's desk]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, of course we pick it up!]] – In connection with the OMV, I agree that we can immediately decide that no palm oil will be added to the biodiesel, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I am there immediately, because it is crazy that we are dealing with our biodiesel in Austria 13 000 hectares of palm oil and are only having preliminary refugee discussions about war refugees, because this will also destroy habitat in these regions. Ladies and gentlemen. ==References====External links== December 2015 is a historic day in Paris. [[Abg. Lightenecker: She's right!]] I must say that I am disappointed that it does not complain of the exclusion of shipping and air traffic during these negotiations. In Austria we have 3 000 overflights, and this concerns agriculture, all of us as consumers, these pollutants that we get on our minds, so to speak, these pollutants that come into the soil, these pollutants, which subsequently pass through the food into the body. This would not be credible if our own parade greens were to act as advisers instead of this financial policy struggle; Joschka Fischer is such a one. Energy – in turn, a complete failure of the Greens! –: The construction of the much too many biogas plants in Austria has led to the overcrowding of 50,000 hectares of the most valuable permanent pasture. [[Abg. Brunner: We were, or what?]] – Self-understanding, Mrs. Brunner, you have been famous for this. 50,000 hectares of permanent pasture mean 50,000 hectares of domestic protein, 50,000 hectares of biodiversity, 50,000 hectares of plant diversity. However, only the bees are discussed, which is drawn by the hair, because most honey comes from abroad anyway. The most important thing, Mrs Colleague, is that it has to do with climate protection: If one of the leading trade and supermarket chains in Austria now advertises with the CO2-Kam-pagne, that is to say, to become CO2-neutral by 2020, the expenses are all full, then I expect the greens to call for the same trading chain – and I will, of course, present further examples in the AMA marketing report, for example, up to California wine – which advertises with CO2-neutrality, now in January the grapes carve over 14,000 kilometres from South Africa here to Austria. [[The speaker holds a pack of grapes in the height]] Is this necessary, is it CO2-neutral, Mrs Colleague? Are these the goals that we welcome, Mrs Colleague? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: No, of course not! That's really sad!]] I have missed your suggestions, and that is the disappointing! The Minister of Finance has answered this quite well, I think, because from the technical point of view he has given quite clear answers here. From the professional side of the green club, Mr. Pirklhuber, I expect a lot more activities, much more action; today there is still Minister Rupprechter, who can be photographed with Mr. “Action” Schwarzenegger. As Minister for the Environment, he probably went extra to Paris to get a new photo, because – I also feared – results have not been comprehensively achieved. This should not be rejoiced, Mrs Colleague, but we should look at reality. A climate agreement that excludes air transport and shipping has not deserved this name! That is why we are in favour of clear statements and, above all, we are asking the Green Group to support this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13805	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:35:18]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13826	This brings us to the current European hour on the subject: ‘Security instead of asylum chaos’ The following Members of the European Parliament were nominated for participation in the current hour: for the SPÖ club: May. Evelyn Regner; for the ÖVP club: Heinz K. Becker; for the FPÖ club: Harald Vilimsky; for the Green Club: Michel Reimon, MBA; for the NEOS Club: Mag. Dr. Angelika Mlinar, LL.M. I welcome you all very warmly in our midst. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. Please, honourable Member, you have 10 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e13875	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I say, at the latest since the dramatic developments in recent months, in which there have been really terrible terrorist attacks and also many deaths in Europe – not only in Europe, but also in the world, which unfortunately has been a reality for years; that there are terrorist attacks under the concept of radical Islamism and with regard to this religion which is radically explained – is, unfortunately, reality – at the latest since developments also in Paris and the attacks and also developments in Cologne or other cities of Europe, whether in Sweden, in Austria, for example, in Salzburg et cetera, it should be clear that there are massive developments here, that there are misdevelopments that must be called by name and that one must also stop, misdevelopments – and I am quite aware of that – for which, besides Chancellor Merkel in Germany, Mr Faymann also bears responsibility. Since the summer of last year, we have experienced a development that has come to Austria, which was very likely to be foreseeable, which has been foreseeable for many years and about which we could and should have been able to counter it, instead of doing it now, as if it had come as a surprise, as it has always been explained. There was a new international migration to Europe, over Greece, over south-eastern Europe, first over Hungary, then Hungary closed the borders to protect its own population. Hungary has responded accordingly, which has been criticized by our Chancellor Faymann. As a result, all of them were allowed to enter Austria – everyone, without passport control, without registration, without verification, without knowing who is actually coming, who that is, whether the claims are true that these rulers are all from the war regions. Today we know that this is not the case, but it is only a percentage of perhaps more than 20 percent who come from the war region of Iraq and Syria. This too must be made differentiated in the sense of interpretation and the clear legal definition of the Geneva Convention to illustrate how this should be appreciated. But, as many do not come from Iraq and Syria, you cannot even know that if you do not carry out passport checks if you do not register. Don't worry, I'm not going to quote Miloš Zeman, the President of the Czech Republic, true to words, I don't want to do that, but he's right if he says: If you live in a country where you are punished for fishing without an angler's license, but are not interested in illegal border crossing without a passport – I now welcome it to quote it a little differently – then it is at least certain that something is wrong with the respective government. And that's what you have to hold on to. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] What is a responsibility if you close your eyes before that? From the outset, we have pointed out that this is negligent, that in our opinion it is also a violation of law. If the Schengen laws are out of force – and they are out of force in real political terms – then this is the failure of the European Union. Yes, we know who has failed: the European Union. But just point out that the European Union has failed, that Schengen external border security does not work and that the responsibility is not lived up, that is too little. That's where you have to take responsibility yourself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is, of course, to protect, secure and ultimately protect our own national borders, to protect against illegal immigration and to close it, as did President Orbán rightly in our neighbouring country, for which he has also been publicly reproached by you, which was not exactly the right relationship, on the contrary. If it is not countered, then it must not be surprising that such developments are unfortunately increasing. Even now, English newspapers report that those who have moved as immigrants over Austria to Germany have a predominantly economic background and cannot be considered within the meaning of the Geneva Convention. The EU Commission is already assuming that 60 percent have a purely economic background. The figures will probably be higher, as I think, than the EU Commission admits. We assume 80 percent. In any case, it is quite interesting to admit that there are mistakes there. It would also have been necessary for the government to acknowledge and stop these mistakes. But we are experiencing placebo measures, some of which have been taken and decided here, with alleged limits, which are not limits at all, but indicative values and planning targets, which we will have already exceeded by the end of the month, because we have been following official version since 1. Introduced 1 500 to Austria every day, some say that one has to go out of over 3,000 daily. We will only exceed in the month of January this ceiling or the indicative value or the planning objective that the government has decided to have taken into account without the backlog from Germany to Austria at all. It is already the case that 200 to 300 are sent back from Germany every day. After the Sweden and the Danes have closed the borders, the Germans also send 200 to 300 people back to Austria, the on Austria, daily! This can then be calculated, at least 9 000 in the month and at the end of the year, which will be 100 000 only from Germany in Austria in 2016. That's what you're doing, though. And it is also quite clear that all the experts are right to say and we have been pointing out for some time that the last flow of refugees and the inflow of immigration in the form of modern international migration last year have been the beginning, where, of course, one will have to expect a continuation, at least from the end of winter. Now he's still taking place. But if it goes to the end of the winter and the temperatures become more pleasant again, of course, we have to expect a further increase in immigrants mainly from the African continent, so that from April on we can expect 10,000 to 15 000 people a day. And you have to take the right measures in good time, and I miss them. Will you now make a new calendar reform, where the twelve months will be reduced to one month, so that we can close the borders by the end of January and, if the target and target for planning are exceeded, no more immigrants will be allowed in? Or won't that be the case? That's the question then. And then you see that it's not serious. Then one sees that one wants to calm the population a little bit again, then, after three-quarters of a year, after we have raised the right and legitimate demands, where at the time we have been accused by you as a “hetzer”, Mr. Chancellor, at once begins to take on our demands at least verbally, without really wanting to enforce and implement them. That's just not honest, that's not right what's done there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is only necessary to look at how various developments are always scrambled. Terrorists from Paris as refugees have also been shown to have come to Europe, which is certain, that is confirmed by Greece, with a high probability also over Austria. Of course, it cannot be said exactly because no passport control and no registration took place in Austria, especially negligent, one must say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then they have also been dragged further stately, in order to be able to prepare the terrorist attack in peace, apparently later on. One of the terrorists was shown to have been in St. Pölten and in Vienna and apparently also had links here with structures and perhaps even agreed on planning, who knows. There is more information that two other terrorists have also stayed in Vienna and have lived in Vienna's favourites, in order to have also bought in Vienna's favourites in a pharmacy Wekraut-Ex as an explosive amplifier, which has obviously been remarkable. The pharmacy has also brought this to light. It is also alleged that the protection of the Constitution has also taken place and that the two later terrorists of Paris have also carried out telephone surveillance and other surveillance, but not access because the caution was apparently too great. All of this has to be explained without delay, because it shows that we do not act decisively and do not take decisive action against such developments. In addition, there are associations in Austria, also radical Islamist associations, also subsidized in Vienna, to the kindergarten area, where one knows for years that it is radical Islamist parallel structures, where one is not prepared to make subsidies, to disband and ban associations, or to identify persons who are radically active in Islam. And that's exactly the sadness. That is to say, one really has the fear and also, rightly, the concern that this continues in the negative and false development as we experience it today. This is something that, of course, makes the population angry, because it is rightly expected that the stop button will finally be pressed here, that the emergency button will finally be pressed here and that it will be said: [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach]] End with this irresponsible, unrestricted immigration policy! That's what she's really doing. Everyone who has also fled Syria and Iraq deserves protection. He has no question of subsidiarity in the first country where he is safe. But he does not have the right to travel through countless safe countries. These are the facts. And I say that there is therefore a need for action, yes, there are the limits to be closed, it is to ensure that people cannot get further in, and this mass immigration under the wrong term “Asyl” is finally to be stopped. That's our responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14048	Mr Bundeskanzler spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Bundeskanzler, I give you the floor. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14069	Madam President. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria has received over 90,000 people last year, giving people the opportunity to apply for asylum in Austria on the run from war and persecution. Many in civil society, NGOs, police officials, the federal army, mayors, mayors, many Austrians have helped there. I thank all those who have done this help. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] We have made it clear that the protection of the borders works best when our border protection is equipped with technical and human possibilities in such a way that it is able to optimally ensure that the laws are maintained according to security and order, but also controlled at the borders. However, it is also necessary to ensure that the measures are proportionate. Now, Mr Strache, especially the state government of Burgenland, but also the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, have rightly awarded Hans Peter Doskozil and his team that they did the right thing in the Burgenland last year with the necessary control at the border on the one hand, but above all with the necessary help. It was the chief of police Doskozil who knew that people should first be given something to eat and medication when they need it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It was the colleagues of the police, it was the soldiers who helped with the assistance that people who came to us, people, families, children, something to eat, were provided with medicines. These units are also to be thanked, which have done so well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have instructed to control the borders in such a way that, as far as possible, we know to everyone who he is, so that you know who comes to us in the country. This demand – can you also listen?, I don't know if it helps anything, but you can try it – that our borders are to be secured is correct. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] You say we have at least that – how did you say that? – verbally said. But if You say something right, for example the time, then the question arises whether we would need you or the clock would be sufficient. [[Abg. Strache: You first rated it as “hetze! ”]] Yes, you're right, it's right to control the borders in Austria. We also arranged this with technical preparations, with increased staff. I assume that in these days and weeks too, we control our borders in such a way that we determine who is coming into the country. This is a requirement that we as the Federal Government must fulfil. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would nevertheless like to address the question of where we can best control the borders, although this does not affect us from carrying out controls at our own Austrian border to carry out the necessary controls. The government has also clearly stated in its action paper, together with the national leaders, that controls have to take place that European demands must continue to be fully implemented, that in addition, indicative values say what we can create and carry out in our country. And that is certainly not a right of asylum for Europe as a whole. Austria cannot do this alone, Austria, Germany and Sweden cannot do that alone. But we are able to make it clear that, with the right measures of control, the right measures at our borders, the right measures in European policy, the right measures in integration can do what Austria is worthy of, namely to share in the fact that people who have an asylum right receive something. However, a part of it means taking part in other European countries in the field of asylum law. The detours that the Hungarian neighbor has carried out for some time have not brought a refugee less in Austria. The measures at the EU's external border, which are necessary to be implemented in Greece, Macedonia, on the Balkan route, on the Schengen border, Slovenia, will be carried out with the support of Austria. [[Abg. Höbart: Where are the measures?]] If we could rely on a hundred percent that this works, it would be best for our country. Since we cannot rely on 100 percent of this to work, we must also ensure our borders so that we do not become active in place of the European Union in the long term, but we must work to pursue asylum policy together in Europe and secure the borders together. This is a task that remains on the agenda! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] All indicative values, all political decisions show that we know very well that measures - so-called Plan B or C - have become necessary, because many countries of the European Union do not belong to this common policy, which is necessary. But that is why it is not wrong to call for active European policy, it would only be wrong to restrict itself to it. That is why active European policy is the right way with a clear attitude, as we have always said: to help, to support, to control and to protect it together. It is equally right to prepare in parallel measures in one's own country, which I have therefore referred to as an emergency measure and will always be referred to, because I am convinced that it would be better and better together at European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me conclude by saying: If we want to bring Dublin to a stage where we can handle it, for example, sufficient quarters must be created in Greece and our asylum courts must also be accepted in order to bring someone back to Greece. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] If the standards do not work, then the recovery does not work. If the agreements, the return agreements do not work, then the returns do not work. We must, however, be much stronger in Austria and in the European Union together to bring back those who have not received this right of asylum in spite of a fair procedure in Austria. [[Abg. Höbart: Very many!]] This government will ensure that we introduce the measures that are necessary in Austria and that we are more demanding in Europe what we call solidarity and a common European task.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14207	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to draw general attention to the fact that we have created the possibility that the Members of the European Parliament – and I have also welcomed them and I am very pleased that they are here – will also take part in the meetings and take the floor. I would just like to draw attention to this and remind you that in a presidential conference we have reached a seat agreement which was also supported by five clubs, in the ranks of experts. But if there is a desire – and it has also been agreed to carry out an evaluation – then I will put it back on the agenda at the next presidential conference. Now, however, this agreement is in force, which we have reached in the Presidential Conference on the Rules of Procedure. - That was just for information. That is why we are continuing the discussion. I call Mr Pendl. 5 minutes speaking time. This also applies to all further words.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14238	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! As always on very serious topics, it is tried to mix different materials. I would like to thank you very much, Mr Lugar, at the beginning of my remarks, like the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – this is so, you do not need to thank all the Austrians, the NGOs, the soldiers, the police and the municipal mandates, for the effort they made last year for humanitarian reasons for the people in need. [[Abg. Lugar: Thank you!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and Team Stronach.]] I think there must be so much time to thank the Austrians for this. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the international community is called upon and called on to seek stability in certain parts of the world and in certain regions of the world. In addition, the European Union is also called on to make a contribution, whether it is Africa or the Middle East, and together with the international community, to try to ensure that humane and normal conditions occur in parts of Asia, otherwise, I fear, Europe will be confronted with refugee flows for many years. I mean, we must be careful not to mix all areas in the light of this discussion, even if individual incidents occur and crimes are committed. Everyone who knows me knows that I condemn every single crime as too much. As a state community, but also as a national state, we are invited to train the threat images of today, if you want to do so, in the field of terrorism according to organisational, humane, equipment, “uplift” – under quotation marks – and to see that our police forces, together with the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army, have grown these challenges. - That's the one area. I have said here in many discussions, especially in the budget, that it always means in the first sentence, everything has to go over the stage without any additional debt – but in each policy area, the experts have then made themselves and have demanded more money. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] However, one thing is certain: I am grateful to this Federal Government because in the first case – yes, in reality, before the first case has already occurred in the field of terrorism – we have jointly tried to resist immediately in the equipment, in the organisational field and, above all, in the planning area of this development. It seems that even for this year – now we can discuss how much of it is needed for the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum and how many executive forces are needed – the Ministry of the Interior is once again assigned to forces in a range of 1,500 to 2,000, but it is also considered in terms of equipment and prevention for the field of criminality. – I think you can’t react to such developments faster! [[Abg. Listen:... nothing happens at all!]] I am also one who has said time and again that we have to look at the decisions, because they have mixed that, as far as the poor are concerned, the flows of refugees are concerned: Anyone who needs asylum will get it from us; we will not be able to afford it for everyone else. [[Abg. Listen:... is too late!]] I think it would be better if we could carry out control at the EU's external borders. However, it is quite clear to me – that is my opinion – that until this is implemented with all the hotspots, we are carrying out controls at national borders. There will be a great effort to be able to deal with this so great and difficult task together with all the national institutions, with NGOs, with the citizens of our home country, but I believe that the necessary adjustments, the necessary decisions of the Austrian Federal Government, show that we can go this way together in the interests of those who need our solidarity aid, but above all in the interests of the Austrians. – I cordially invite you to go along on this path!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14312	Next, Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14333	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! No one argues that developments were particularly dramatic in the last year, which led to the flow of refugees, which ultimately also led to Austria and through Austria. It has been a mass movement that, I say, has not been expected in this dimension. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well, please go!]] [[Abg. Werner!]] It is nice that the liberal colleagues have always known this and foresaw it. That's wonderful, I'm just wondering why they were against it all the time, for example, increasing development aid, as they are now criticizing that we haven't always done that. They were always opposed to doing more and not less – but they have foresaw it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Not all that hangs is a comparison!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] At any rate, the development was one that all of the executive areas – police, federal army members – and, of course, the army of volunteers and responsibilities from the communities to the border of loadability called for. They are of course to be thanked, but of course it is also an important task of policy to listen very closely to what all these people are telling and saying. [[Abg. New builder:... hearing aid!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, all those who are active in constituencies and listen to what people say to you, tell us very clearly that the reception ability that was so great last year is finally. I am not ashamed that Austria is a country that, if there are crises in the world, is open-hearted, there is assistance, and that we welcome those who are certainly among the poorest of the poor. This is not something that can be cheaply criticized at first, but it is a good thing for our country! This has been excellent during the Prague spring, which has won the country during the Hungarian crisis, this has awarded our country during the Yugoslavian war – and it has now also awarded our country! [[Abg. Cute: But that has nothing to do with it! ... neighbours!]] But the ability to accept, ladies and gentlemen, is limited. The one who believes he can help everyone will not be able to help anyone in the end. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That is why, Federal Chancellor, it is very welcome that the Federal Government has said that there must be a ceiling. [[Abg. New builder: who is no longer at all!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Can't remember!]] It can't be that we continue to take up people without any limitation. It must remain for that place that can actually have an asylum ground, but there is also a natural limit for the reception capacity in our country. I am abusing Europeans, and I still think that – because it takes too long, and I am of course not happy with the national blockades within the European Union – too little progress is being made in external border protection, that too little is going on in the hotspots in which it will be possible to make a legal request from the outside, according to which there will then be a fair distribution. It's too slow for all of us! As long as these decisions are not taken in the European Union and are not implemented, it is necessary that we put in place national measures here and set up a border fence which ensures an orderly transition and lets us be the gentlemen in our own home again. This is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, and it is good that the Federal Government has decided to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This development in Austria and the European Union, of course, also leads us to see that the current Dublin system does not work. It belongs reformed. I have already said here more than a year ago in the case of speeches that, if we do not manage to reform Dublin, Schengen has been challenged, free movement of persons and therefore the free movement of goods within the European Union has been called into question. That is why it is also a question of survival for the European Union that these fundamental freedoms can be restored. As long as they are not produced, however, it is necessary to move national borders, to collect ceilings and to say that all European countries have solidarity to act. The load cannot be trained by a few alone.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14479	The Member of the European Parliament is now speaking Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14511	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just one word to my previous speaker, who rightly mentioned from my point of view that Austria has always helped people who needed it. You mentioned the Hungarian uprising in 1956, you mentioned the Prague Spring 1968. No question we helped! Even in the Bosnia-Hercegovina, Austria helped. – But that does not mean that you can open the door and door for an intercontinental international migration! This is a bit substantial, something completely different! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has today chosen the subject of this illegal flow of migrants and the ever-increasing security deficit for good reason. We have not only the tragic history of Charlie Hebdo up to the attacks in Paris, we have the tragic situation where – Cologne gave the start – the sexual harassment of women has become a broad media audience, we have the situation of daily harassment, burglaries, thefts, knives in connection with this international migration, which is in progress, because this international migration is, of course, a kind of wave of support for terrorists, for people who reject our culture, for people who underestimate the women and see them as an object of sexual desire on the streets. This is exactly the problem we have to contend with today, and no other. Against this background, it is almost immense that our Federal Chancellor makes himself here and says: We all control, I don't know what you have! – Mr Bundeskanzler, may one be written to you in the main book: The invitation to all of you from Arabia and Africa to come here came from the German Chancellor Merkel, but without you, who acted as a locker – and I would like to mention... [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: Incredible!]] - Wait, wait! This is not my concept, Mr Bundeskanzler, which is the term that Bavarian Prime Minister Seehofer has chosen against you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we had someone who respected the European rules as the Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán, we would not have this problem if we had someone who observed the Dublin rules. You have not observed both – and you are almost more to blame than the German Chancellor Merkel. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And to all the problems that manifest themselves today, one can only say one thing: It's enough! The limit of tolerance has long been exceeded! And it's a long time ago. The borders must be closed, the Schengen Agreement must be maintained and Austria must be protected from all these problems which are becoming increasingly manifest here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the dignity of the House does not allow me to mention here terms that a well-known Austrian extreme sportsman, a parachute jumper, has chosen against the behaviour of this government. But of course he's right about this, Felix Baumgartner. – It is an insanity that you have fabricated here, where you have contributed your part to the fact that Europe has come into one of the most serious crises of the past decades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question now arises: What is to be done in view of the problem that is getting more and more out of the row? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Listen and try to minimize the background noises. Fact number one: We're talking about closing borders. Fact number two: Of course, all those who do not have a genuine refugee status or who have only come into the country for economic reasons and have pretended such a one must return to their homes as soon as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Höbart: (in the direction of Abg. Matznetter)... Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce! Equipment!]] There is an international term “incentive minimization” so that you can no longer enter the sight of international migrants. This means that the environment is designed in such a way that people who need help receive this help, but that they do not attract the stay here in addition, so that people who say they are fleeing from a certain situation, through five safe countries to Austria and to Germany, and also select that as a target country. It is not necessary to pay cash benefits to those persons. In view of the enormous problems we have, we can make sure with a lockout in the evening that these people are no longer able to make any more complaints here. There, where problems are, especially in the station area, police controls can also be carried out. And the nonsense is – and now I am with the European Union – that everything is monitored, only these risk groups are not monitored. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I can only say: Protect Austria! Pay attention to the international rules and do not push international waves to migrants who want to come to Austria, and a good humanity that leads our culture to go down the stream and that Austria is taking more and more damage! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14625	Next, Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14646	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery, and especially dear young visitors who are honouring us today! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! What are we talking about when we talk about the international refugee situation? – I would like to explain this briefly: I was at an international mayor's conference last week, initiated and organized by André Heller together with Andreas Babler, Mayor of Traiskirchen. [[Abg. Oye!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Important conference!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Thank you many times for the many calls. I think we should give the many guests at the gallery another, a better picture of our cooperation. [[Abg. Lopatka: Are you coming from...?]] – Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, I regret that the clubman of a government group drops to such a level. [[Abg. Lopatka: That was just a question, you don't have to answer it!]] But that speaks for itself, you don't have to comment on that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Mrs. Master Teacher!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – From the many calls of colleagues back to the matter. What do we talk about when we talk about the international refugee situation? – At this international mayor's conference, where Austrian mayors with Italian, Jordanian, Lebanese, Turkish... – Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, you have just said: [[Abg. Lopatka: Unlike you, we have hundreds of mayors!]] “Unlike you, we have hundreds of mayors!” – I find this level of you miserable, and this must be expressed here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So much to the level in the High House and who brings out what level here. [[Abg. Lopatka: What's pathetic? What's pathetic about our mayors?]] I note that it is unbearable for the ÖVP that a Green Mandate would like to share their experience of an international mayor's conference, where people from areas where there are many people seeking protection: Jordan, Lebanon, but also...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14783	Ladies and gentlemen! It belongs to the command of the state that the speaker, who is just at the speaker's desk, should be presented in such a way that this is also understandable, also for the listeners outside on the screens and here in the hall. [[Abg. Hagen: But what she says is not understandable!]] Interlocutory calls belong to parliamentary events, not a question, but they should not be permanent interlocutory calls or dialogues, which, at the end of the day, also prevent a Member's speech and lead to a dialogue. So I would like to ask you all to stick to it. Again: Intervocations are part of this – why not? The speaker may also respond if she/she wants, but does not have to. But all of this is to be done in a way that makes it possible for people outside to follow our discussions. I have not stopped the speaking time which I have now used, but I am naturally hanging it back to you, Madam President. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: 3 minutes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14824	Thank you, Mr President, for the memory. Again: Last week, I had the opportunity to listen to a mayor from Lebanon who said the following: By the way, Lebanon – about as large as Upper Austria – had a population of 4.5 million. This country, this small country now houses over 2 million refugees. So we talk about such a situation when we talk about refugee issues. This mayor from Lebanon has also made an appeal to us or to all those present there. He said: We need your help, we can't vote that alone! – And precisely about this phenomenon, we are talking about international, shared responsibility. What does it need in this situation? – In this situation, there is a need for joint reception and registration centres where people arrive in large numbers, which is currently Greece and partly Italy. There is a need for a common asylum policy in the EU to ensure fair and uniform distribution of incoming people across all EU countries. In recent weeks there have been debates of nationalist governments, such as those of Prime Minister Orbán, Polish and some other countries, who want to emerge from this common responsibility, who believe that they can pick out the roses in the EU, and all of them seriously believe that they can make use of all the funding in the EU for their countries, but in the case of refugees, where humanitarian responsibility is concerned: Without us, we're not interested! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Can they!]] Austria, Germany and Sweden are supposed to do this alone! [[Abg. Pretty: That's a question of whether this is a responsibility!]] - That's not how it is! After several nationalist governments have announced that they do not want to participate in the common refugee policy in the EU, I am very much in favour of presenting to them the account that they are told: Solidarity is not a one-way road! And: You cannot assume that you can enjoy all the benefits of EU membership, but at the same time you say that the responsibility for incoming refugees should be borne by three countries! Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a Europe where people, citizens, citizens, where the civilian population in Hungary, in Austria, in Sweden, in Denmark, in many, many other countries has helped families of refugees to eat and drink, has supported them, has partially absorbed them in their homes. At the same time, however, we also live in a Europe where the 18-month programme of the EU Council Presidency talks about – I quote – job creation through the defence and defence industry. One must imagine that there are governments in the EU, all of them serious and, I must say, shamefully saying: Yes, we want to create so-called jobs in Europe through arms production and arms exports! - I'll finish. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] – They do not ask what happens to these weapons produced in the EU that are brought to Syria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia or other virtually warring countries. With these weapons, refugees are made in the truest sense of the word. These weapons kill people elsewhere. And the survivors then have to see that they are fleeing – partly into the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a common European refugee policy. And I am convinced that the EU is capable of including a five hundredths of its population as a protection seeker. That was the case last year. About 1 million applicants for protection...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14881	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to a close.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14897	1 million people seeking protection in the EU for 500 million European citizens. Together we can do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14924	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking for Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14945	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens on the gallery and in front of the screens! ‘Security instead of asylum chaos’ is an agenda item that the Group of the Party of European Socialists brings in ritually and repeatedly. The title as such does not find my support, the attitude behind it. I do not share this attitude that one should play out groups of people against one another, play out citizens against one another. However, I share the concern that we must, of course, have a good eye on the issue of security. And I also share the view that we cannot continue as last year. Several of my previous speakers thanked the many people, the civil society organisations that helped last year. That was a great performance. I would like to thank you for this. With 2015, we have a year behind us in which the state could rely on the people. And that was good. However, in 2016, Federal Chancellor, we must come to a state where people can also rely on the state. That means, of course, we have to come to an order of refugee flows. To this end, it is important that we distinguish between war refugees, asylum seekers and economic migrants. The distinction is not always simple. Each of these groups also has their own history, each individual has their own history, every person behind it, and that is to be seen and honoured. At the same time, we must come to a differentiated treatment. We need, Mr Bundeskanzler, the overcoming of Dublin III, and we need common asylum procedures. Dublin III was the principle Floriani: Everyone tried to clean up the neighboring state, wished you luck and said I'd send it on. It didn't work. If we want to give the uncontrolled flows of refugees in Europe and within the EU the history book if we want to order it, then we have to overcome Dublin III. We need common asylum procedures. But that means protecting the external borders together, not saying: Dear Greeks, you don't do this well enough, try more!, but we have to organize it together, jointly finance it. We need a common asylum authority, we need common procedures, we need to set and allocate quotas together. We also believe that during the asylum process, an allocation should be made to regions in order to ensure equal distribution among the participating countries. And we believe that when asylum is granted, the person will be assigned to a Member State. in the first five years – Mr President of the Federal Chancellor – this is a proposal from us to take it to Brussels to the labour market and the social system of the assigned country, so that migration flows do not arise afterwards. The second point: We must, Mr Bundeskanzler, if we do not succeed in developing common solutions with the 22 Schengen members, with the EU as a whole. And I also believe that if we do not have to do with everyone, then we must reduce Schengen, then we need Schengen 2.0. We need the deepening of Schengen, we need more Europe to solve, no less. And if some of them are not ready here or are not yet ready, then a group of people are moving forward here, and the others can later get into it. Europe has always grown by a nucleus. In other words, we need a strong heart, we need a core Europe, and we can turn this crisis into the opportunity for a European unification movement that is coming into the next stage of development. That is to say, nuclear Europe over a nucleus of Schengen 2.0 deepening and, if it has to be, reduction in the first stage. Thirdly, Mr Bundeskanzler, that would be a national solution I would ask to examine, which is quickly feasible. We can and should differentiate between subsidiary protection and asylum. At present, it is the same procedure with different results. I believe that we should actually open up our own access to subsidiary protection for war refugees. That would be a massive acceleration of procedures. We can check relatively quickly who comes from these countries. From the last three months, the duration of the asylum proceedings will be up to nine months on average, one year – completely unreasonable for those affected, and also unreasonable for our budget! There are incredible costs in these waiting times, and it is human beings a complete “wooder”. That is why I ask you to consider: subsidiary protection as your own way, and the refugees themselves can check whether they choose this path. That means, of course, returning to home even after the end of the battle. That would also contribute to the order of these currents.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e14991	Mr President, we have a technical problem with time taking. One minute, even if the lamb doesn't shine.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15006	Okay, thank you. I've thought that feels timeless.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15030	But you don't have to take the minute.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15046	Mr President. I'll be. You know me. Last point: the subject of labour migration. If the EU Commission says that we currently have 60 percent of economic migrants in the refugee flows, then we must take the phenomenon very, very seriously. Mr Bundeskanzler, estimated government, you have to come up with common solutions at European level with neighbouring countries. We need common rules for labour migration, an understandable set of rules for those who have a hope here with Europe. That means we have to create a Blue Card plus. We need recruitment strategies for highly qualified, for potential providers, for skilled workers. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Those who do not meet the criteria – and I come to the conclusion – who, as in the USA, need a chance for a lottery. It takes a lot of pressure. Not Everyone can come under the title of labour migration, and not everyone we will want to take. But the chance must be given to establish clear rules here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15091	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15112	Mr President. High house! If we look at the discussions over the last few weeks, hope could be gained as a volatile observer. One could believe that something is actually in motion in Austria. We have experienced a time when, despite existing laws, the government simply left everything in the country that wanted. We have experienced a time when the state has organized tow and acted as a tow. We have experienced a time when, through an irresponsible invitation policy, people have first opened up – to Austria, to Germany and to Sweden. One could now believe that this time is over, since now the SPÖ has also become a little more reasonable. But as an Austrian learner, you also have to see the contexts. Do you think it is a coincidence that the government did not wake up until it was clear that in April or May we would elect the Federal President? – The government suddenly opened up, and suddenly the stop sign came out. Strangely, this stop sign becomes effective – what do you think? – in May. [[Abg. Darmann: This is an alibi action!]] [[Abg. That's not a stop sign, Robert!]] After this Federal Presidential election, this stop sign is said to be active. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Go, never!]] For one, it is a ceiling and for the other, only a indicative value. There must be the alarm bells at the learned Austrian, because what you try here is nothing but to play on time. If it's possible to say stop, then tell me the following: Why don't we stop right now? Why not today? Why not yesterday? Why do we say, after 90,000 immigrants, that we have neither jobs nor accommodations nor any idea of how things should go, not stop immediately until May, and see how this works? – From me, which can come again in May if we have supplied the 90 000 accordingly. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But you don't want to, because you don't know how to stop saying, because you don't want to hear the truth, and the truth is: There is no right for these refugees to choose to live in Austria. There's no such thing as that. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] This is not in the Geneva Convention on Refugees, nor is there any other right that a Pakistani or an Afghan, or as they all are called, can simply say: I'm going to Austria, and Austria has welcomed me. There is no such right. There is also no right to solidarity, which is always expressed to us. There is no right to solidarity. If someone has to be solid, it's the neighbouring countries, and they really have to be solid. Has anyone ever wondered why a rich country like Saudi Arabia simply says: My brothers don't care about me, and whether we should accept it in this way? Or if Pakistan says: I'm not taking back the people you're bringing me back? Have I heard from you, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Where is the solidarity you demand from us? We demand them, and above all you demand solidarity from the more than one million minimum pensioners in this country. They're supposed to be solid, and I'm wondering: Why? Or what about our 37,000 homeless? Where is solidarity? – What you are trying to tell us here is that we are obliged to include all the people who want to come to us. But we're not. Let's take a look at it from the logical side: If we provide a refugee on site, we can provide up to twenty times as much as we supply him in Austria. Now tell me, Mr Chancellor, why you are attracting this refugee, why you lure these refugees into these overcrowded boats to bring them to Austria in order to provide them here by twenty times the amount, in a culture that is proven to be heavy with these people? Why not on site: the same language, the same religion, the same culture – and a twenty-seventh of the costs? Why don't we do that? I can give you the answer: because you hope to save with these people the social systems that have so disastrously driven you into the economy and ultimately put them at risk. [[Abg. Höbart: This is the bankruptcy of our social systems! It's logical!]] You now want to save social systems with additional taxpayers, but you have done the bill without the host, because these people will not pay taxes. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] These people are moving into social systems, not because they are deliberately doing so, but because they are not needed on the Austrian labour market without training. This is a fact, Chancellor. In the meantime, we also know: 82 percent of refugees have virtually no training. [[Abg. Höbart: It's too deep!]] What do you want with those in Austria? - That doesn't make sense. That's why: Let's support the refugees on the spot! Let us support those countries that fulfil their obligations as neighbouring countries! Let us support those countries that live in solidarity with their brothers! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Let us support them with money – for it is a hundred times better to keep the refugees on the spot, to provide them there than to attract them, with all the effects we all know!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15236	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15258	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I would like to start my speech with a positive input, and I would like to address this positive contribution to the FPÖ colleagues. You may be surprised at this now, but I’ve “rejoiced” – under quotation marks – that you want to focus on the topic of asylum in the current hour of Europe – apart from the title – because I thought quite honestly: We will hear from you today an opinion that tells us that you are also sincerely interested in a European solution. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, neither Mr Klubobmann Strache nor Mr Vilimsky in Europe have lost a word in this direction. I really must say that it has been an opportunity rejected, because I am really convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we can only solve this challenge – as the Federal Chancellor has said for months now – in the area of refugees, the people seeking protection can only work together. It needs an international solution. [[Abg. Höbart: For months he's been talking about it, that's right!]] – Although it has been said for months: It is, however, Mr President. We need an international solution, we need a European solution that we really need to work on, and of course we also need a national solution that we need to work on together. In his speech, Mr Strolz made a very good proposal to me that perhaps a new category of people in need of protection should be created – in so far as war refugees coming from Syria, Iraq, can be granted a subsidiary protection by means of rapid procedures, for the time when war is in their country. I think this is a solution that you should really think about, and this input should also be discussed in the new asylum law novelle. [[Abg. Höbart: This is possible now! This is possible now, Mrs Colleague. That's nothing new!]] But we must always remember, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to focus on the rule of law – that is certainly also in your sense – and what is equally important to me, dear listeners, that of course, we must always respect human rights. Human rights, we all know, are a very fundamental value of the European Union. We all have been talking for months about how important the community of values is, and if we take the community of values seriously, we must take human rights seriously. [[Abg. Lugar: But that's nowhere!]] I think we should keep this in mind again and again. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We want to live together in a Europe in the future on the basis of European values, in a Europe – and I believe that we are all of one opinion – which is not surrounded by borders and fences, because I would like to give you some thought: fences and walls are not only out, they are also within us. This too should not be forgotten in this debate. I believe that if we are already talking about signal policy with indicative values or ceilings, we could also send signals to European decision-makers – and to the European states that do not fulfil their solidarity. All European countries have also ratified the Human Rights Convention with the Declarations of Accession. All are also obliged to implement the Convention on Human Rights in their countries. [[Abg. Lugar: It's not like it's all in there! There's nothing about that!]] Let us send the signals in the direction – as Mr Korun said – that solidarity is not a one-way road, but that we can also demand solidarity from the other states so that we can meet our legal and human rights conditions! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe – and this has been mentioned many times today – that some measures need to be taken. The hotspots have already been addressed; the hotspots are needed. The Commission is in favour, the President of the Commission is in favour of this, and there are also requests here in Parliament. It is only necessary to implement it, and we should work on it together, also beyond this national Parliament. However, we must support the countries in which the hotspots are, they cannot do this alone. It needs solidarity from the other European states. I do not think it makes sense to blame Greece alone, but we also need to see the circumstances in Greece and really support the Greeks in their border protection. We need legal means of entry so that we can really put the craftsmanship in the tow, and we need return agreements – even here I agree with many speakers – so that those people who have no right to asylum and no right to subsidiary protection in Austria can actually be brought back to their countries. I believe that we need in Europe – if we want Europe not to break this challenge, but to grow and perhaps grow stronger from this crisis that has been caused by people and affected by people – human recovery packages. Just as there have been bank rescue packages – these have also been created – you can, if you want, create human recovery packages with political will. I'm convinced you can do that. You just have to want it together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would like to say: In all the problems and fears that exist, which are also justified and which must be taken seriously, I nevertheless believe that as politicians we have the task of giving answers. I therefore appeal to all: Let us fight the causes of escape and not the fleeing people!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15367	The next item is Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15389	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers! The sexual assaults on women show the ugly fragility of the welcome culture. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] It was terrifying to be silent. One kept silent because it was the wrong perpetrators, namely those with migration backgrounds. In doing so, we need a call, and above all a criminal zero tolerance policy, when someone gets involved in a woman. [[Abg. Lugar: What about the little boys?]] Many courageous women have fought for decades for our rights, and we do not let them take us, neither now nor in the future, of no one! [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We owe equal rights and, above all, women to our prosperity in this society, which is why so many are now coming. Unfortunately, we are now also experiencing a flat-rate judgment, and this is unfair, but most of those who come are now young men who come from a culture that is not well known for keeping women's rights or the rights of sexual minorities particularly high, not to mention anti-Semitism. This is reality, and one has to express it – and more than say: We must now make politics, otherwise the immigrants will make the policy! [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] Austria will have one of Europe's strictest asylum systems with the upper limit on time, asylum on time, and increased family succession. I would particularly like to congratulate our wife, the Minister of the Interior, on this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Refugee policy has long been sick of not distinguishing between asylum migration and economic migration. Asylum means individual protection against persecution. This is a great achievement. That does not mean, however, that hundreds of millions have a right to a new home in Europe. According to a Doha study, 130 million Arabs want to come to Europe. And what's going on is protection from persecution: No person who comes to us from Slovenia or Italy must fear his life there. Shopping in the sense of selecting the best social system must not exist, otherwise the social state will end. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The big issue, which is always mixed with asylum, is economic migration. We are experiencing an unprecedented competition for talents, and that country that manages to attract the best talents has a huge competitive edge. Talents are available all over the world: Attila Doğudan of DO & CO is a native Turkish, Sergey Brin of Google is Russian, Eduardo Saverin of Facebook is Brazilian. [[Abg. Pilz: And you're a Canadian, or what?]] - We need immigrants, the best. However, economic migration must be in the interest of the host country. Successful immigration countries, such as the USA, Canada and Australia, make it clear to us: Immigrants must make and contribute to the host country from day one and contribute something – not vice versa. When I went to Canada, I had to prove to the authorities that I had studied that I was fluently ruling the two official languages English and French, that I have a job and that if this is to be terminated, I still have enough money on the account, so that I do not charge the Canadian social state. I had to take health checks. And that's right. In this context, ladies and gentlemen from Social Democracy, I do not understand your approach: They do not want foreigners who have studied with us free of charge to work and pay taxes here, in particular, in order to protect local workers. But, on the other hand, through your welcome culture, you mainly invite economic migrants without any suitable qualification. So the well-trained foreigners should not stay there, and the illiterates welcome you. That's completely illogical! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is also amazing that especially the intellectuals among the Social Democrats, the green colleagues and all the Bobos who have lost the ground liability cannot be generous enough to the social state and that they will bring it into conflict at the same time through the welcome culture. But, of course, not all social democrats think so. I know some works councils who have a very pragmatic approach and think differently from the intellectual leadership of SPÖ. A ceiling is not a question of left or right, but a question of reason. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] Minister Ostermayer said on TV yesterday that his variant was the resolution of the conflict on the ground. - I'll be right there. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] – But he didn’t say how that could look. The fact is that people have an economic perspective on their continent. Therefore, my proposal: We need militaryly protected special economic zones instead of mere refugee camps that turn people into bitters – an African Singapore, a Hong Kong in the Aegean. We must ensure stability in our country! Let us not only help people to receive alms on their continents, but let us help themselves! Unfortunately, the speaking time is now over. For more information on the idea of the special economic zones, see kunstelswander.at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15492	Mr Mag. Darmann's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15514	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! If one listens to the representatives of the government groups in particular, one would think that they would be the first day here in the National Council and at all in politics. What happened in recent months, last year? – Come on They are not all out here to thank the Austrian population! Apologize to the Austrian people for this asylum chaos, which you have left not only at the European level, but in Austria every day! That is the truth. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Even if representatives of the ÖVP now point towards SPÖ, this only offers the very picture that the Austrian population has enough and is rightly satisfied: They're fighting each other. You don't know what way you're supposed to go. They won't make any decisions. You have regular summits, discuss, talk, but decisions will not be made. Where are the actions that protect Austria that protect the Austrian population? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what it's all about. I have to blame you, at least part of the people here: If you would listen to the Austrian population, listen daily, for weeks, for months, even for more than a year, then you would have known for a long time what actions to do in the sense of the population, esteemed colleagues from the SPÖ and the ÖVP. [[Abg. Rädler: Listen instead of hot!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Listen instead of hot!]] If it is said that the liberals are talking about ‘security instead of asylum chaos’ at a current European hour and mention the European Union too little, I will tell you: That's a good reason. The European Union is currently – and this has been in other areas for a long time – built on three pillars: willlessness, courage and inconsistency. If you still want to rely on this European Union, you have to rely. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The EU is not part of the solution, but the EU is part of the problem. That's why you can argue about this: Is it an emergency defence measure, or is it as we see it, that it is a fundamental self-responsibility of a sovereign state to take everything into its own hands and implement everything possible for the people to protect their own borders in order to prevent the abuse of asylum, in order to bring economic migrants who have lost nothing here outside of the country in order to eliminate the now given crime by these mass immigrations? That's all self-reliance! This is not better by an asylum summit, which, as we have seen, was nothing but a placebo summit again and in the final effect a summit of naughtiness towards its own population. [[Abg. Woeger: Go, go, go!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You must have that broken on your tongue: When on the first night after the summit the Minister of the Interior says: Upper limits, indicative values, upper limit values – whatever that is – and the question of what will be done if 37,500 people are here in the country in the first year, answers: [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Stay with the truth!]] In some cases, the variation is then chosen that people can continue to come to Austria, make an asylum application, only then it will not be processed for years, then you have to ask yourself: What changes is the problem, ladies and gentlemen? Let's go through the head, what that means! In the final effect, this is nothing but a new form of invitation policy to all economic migrants in the world: Come here! The best way to get closer to this limit, because if you surrender your asylum application after reaching the limit, it will not even be treated for years. – And if you push the argumentation to the top, he already has Austrian citizenship before he even gets an asylum status. [[Abg. Wooker: Go, go, go!]] This is the case if over the years no further processing is taking place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wooger: Go!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: What is your suggestion?]] You have to make this accusation happen, because these are not proposals for a solution. There must be an absolute stop to asylum and immigration. That's clear! The upper limit has been exceeded in the case of Weitem. The threshold of visibility for the Austrian population has been exceeded in the case of Weitem. If we have recorded more than 90 000 asylum applications in Austria last year, and if Austria could perhaps work out and endure around 20,000, then we have exceeded this number for years – over the years. Then we do not need to leave more people every year to Austria, where we can assume that they will be a large majority of economic migrants. Please let this go through your head, and you also act on this federal government! You in the SPÖ and ÖVP groups are the inspectors of this Faymann government, who has also proved that you are more part of the problem and not part of the solution, and this government obviously also needs the necessary pressure – just as the government still seems to want to push it towards the European Union – in order to become active in the interests of the population. What the government has proved so far is one: that it is inactive, that it is not willing to take responsibility in the sense of the Austrian population, and that it is not willing to bring economic migrants immediately outside the country. In the last week, thanks to the final sentence, there has been a request from the FPÖ in the Committee on the Interior, which was a nail sample for this last asylum summit, namely the request to permanently postpone economic refugees from Austria. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] What happened? – ÖVP and SPÖ did not vote in favour of this request, but postponed it to continue to wait for the EU and the United Nations. This can be expected by the population of SPÖ and ÖVP. That's why I'm telling you: It really is about truth, freedom, home. In this sense, the Faymann government should resign better yesterday than today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15689	The Member of the European Parliament is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15711	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear audience! As surprising as it is, there is probably a position that all political groups share here. We are afraid to argue about whether we can save children when they get on a boat or after they get on a boat. But what we hope not to argue about is that in principle we do not want them to get on a boat at all. Or? Are we fighting about this too? You want people to flee? That surprises me. I was of the opinion that we all, in principle, want a policy in which people do not have to flee and do not have to go into this emergency situation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And why do they have to? – There are two major problems that trigger this. One is Assad. Assad has too few soldiers to win his civil war, and has targeted civilians in flight for four years. He bombs city dwellers into flight so that he can occupy these cities because he doesn't have enough soldiers. This has triggered the flight for four years, and we have no foreign policy that prevents it and goes into it. – This is once the first scandal, for four years. The second problem is that we do not work together against the fact that there is no common, coordinated policy to deal with this problem afterwards. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right! Absolutely right!]] There are three EU countries that then take up the refugees that have been born and 25 which, on the other hand, block,25 governments that make nationalist policies, next to those which, in the end, remain Austria as one of the three countries they take up. [[Abg. Kogler: That's it!]] Her nationalist friends ensure that Austria is left. If we continue your policy, we will only be left more. That's the problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll tell you something. If we were to introduce a European solution and distribute refugees across Europe, the following would mean – wait, this can be calculated with the basic accounting methods, you can do that –: [[Abg. Höbart:... already x millions in Europe!]] A million refugees are distributed and jointly managed throughout Europe, which means 0.2 percent of the population, meaning 3,600 refugees for Vienna – much less than we now have. [[Abg. Höbart: Death Argument!]] If you want to do anything to manage a small number of refugees intelligently, you need to do this together, European – and not with your nationalistic recipes. [[Abg. Höbart: These are almost all economic refugees! We don't have to distribute them at all!]] [[Abg. Haider: Blue-eyed!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Why should we distribute economic refugees? Why?]] The common foreign policy, the common European policy, is the only answer that can be given. And with your Polish, French, English and so on, nationalist friends, you are destroying this Europe that could solve it. They are the main problem when it comes to the reasons for Austria to remain in this refugee problem. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And the whole thing goes on. I'm telling you, things are going on: Now a civil war is developing in Turkey. In Turkey, cities are collapsing, journalists are imprisoned, representatives are imprisoned and shot. What do we do if in three months, in six months, this is a full civil war with escape in eight months? Then what are we doing? – Not as the ÖVP say, no one could foresee that. We can now predict this, and we now need a foreign minister who works on this issue – and not behind the liberal in domestic policy – because that is what happens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do you do if a great wave of escape comes from Yemen? Saudi Arabia has been bombarding in Yemen for two years. What do you do when the Yemenites get on their way and in half a year, in a three-quarters year? – No Austrian policy on this, only common European foreign policy can do so. We have a major problem at European level at all these levels, and this is Putin; [[Ironic hustle and hustle and bustle of the Abg. Kitzmüller]] Putin, who in all these conflicts... [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Of course, I waited for you to object to the liberals there. You, as Putin's column in the Austrian Parliament, are the main problem for us to have such a European policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Hairer]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Haider]] Putin's greatest interest is in doing exactly what you are doing: splitting the 28 European states, ensuring that we do not have a common foreign policy, that we do not work together in the Middle East – for he wants his military bases in Syria, he wants his contacts with the Turks and so on. You of the FPÖ are making Russian foreign policy here! That is exactly what we have seen in the previous debate in connection with the OMV: The only ones who have voted in favour of this in the Austrian Parliament and who have talked about the fact that the Russians have to deal well with this deal were the liberals. They are Putin's column in the Austrian Parliament. They're making his foreign policy. They divide the European Union for one reason only: so that there is no reasonable, intelligent common foreign policy below. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The issue here is asylum and security. The biggest security problem in Austria is freedom of movement. They are the problem in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15913	The Member of the European Parliament is now speaking for Dr. Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e15941	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Poštovane lady i gospodo! The discussion of whether we now have a ceiling or a indicative value has already been considered with far too much attention. And while we know that the core of the proposal is illegal, we still do not know what the whole thing is supposed to mean. I believe that Austria should have a completely different role. [[Abg. Rädler: But only you!]] .I'm sorry you don't see that, colleague. And, you're right you don't see that, that proves the ÖVP every day. We like to see ourselves as a bridge between different countries and positions and we look forward to the role of intermediaries, or sometimes just that we may be the venue of a negotiation. But how do we behave in the refugee crisis? – We want to help ourselves in so far as we are moving the problem to our neighbouring countries. As understandable as this may be in the short term, it is so bad in the long term, because our European partners will make us feel this on occasion. This return carriage policy will destroy the EU in the long term and will not bring us forward. That can and must not be our goal. Living solidarity looks different and would be the only and the right thing we need now. The energy that our government parties consume with the discussion on ceilings and indicative values would be much better invested in a European solution. This must include the following points, which have already been mentioned by my previous speakers and which I would like to sum up here. Point one: The central objective is a common European asylum and migration policy with legal means of immigration. Secondly, the division of asylum seekers according to the quota decided. Thirdly, the advance of the construction of hotspots at the EU's external borders. And fourthly, working return agreements with the North African countries. In summary, this is the only way we can actually guarantee the preservation of the Schengen area. Less helpful in this search for solutions are the calls from our Minister of the Interior to Greece to better protect the border with Turkey. This proposal comes as so many proposals, especially from the FPÖs. I am grateful that you are not in any executive responsibility, Mr Hübner – that would really be a very terrifying vision – because this proposal is not thought through. [[Abg. That would be very bad!]] Can we please think of this proposal as coming to an end as it is on the table? Variant one: Is the push-off or even the sinking of refugee boats the conclusion of this? – I hope not, because that might even be a bit too harsh for the FPÖ and would perhaps not be excessive to inhumanity. Variant two: Perhaps that means that the Austrian Federal Government is calling on the Greek Navy to penetrate Turkish territorial waters. This is perhaps not the smartest proposal, but please, that would be the result of thinking this proposal to the end, Mr Hübner. The only thing that we can achieve with such thoughtless proposals is in reality the uncertainty of the population. Unfortunately, all these points are just a fight against symptoms, and we are losing sight of the fight against the causes. As my colleague Reimon has just said, there is no way to see the flow of refugees in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan without peace. [[Abg. Beautiful: True said!]] Perhaps we should invest our energy in that! The EU must work actively, together, also with the US, on a peace solution, and perhaps also on the fight against Daesh. If, however, we do not want to participate here as a neutral Austria with our own tricycle team, we should at least implement the measures already adopted. Turkey was promised €3 billion. How much of it has already flown? - Nothing at all. [[Abg. Cute: Because it's an EU measure!]] – The EU is composed of Member States and must transfer the money. The UN's involvement in Jordan, Lebanon, in Turkey on the ground has been reversed. Maybe we should not be surprised if the refugees move on. Why don't we discuss this? – Well, because it is easier to hope that a beautiful weather phase occurs. I can promise you this won't happen. This phase is over for a foreseeable period of time and we must finally make policies that are actively designed and cannot be borne by the hope that everything will go well. Because this kind of weather policy is a kind of policy with which no state can do. - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16026	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16047	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Cologne, Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Stuttgart, Munich, Salzburg on New Year's Eve – what does that tell us? – This procedure had system, because that was Muslim-politically motivated. You just have to make that clear, and I'm going to explain that to you now. Strict a little bit of the brain, go back about a year and remember what happened in Egypt on the Tahrir Square: the same process, politically motivated by the Muslim brothers. The perpetrators were found out, they were asylum seekers, mostly pre-punished several times. You should let that go through your head once. I read a book about Christmas. [[The speaker keeps a book up to date.]] This book of a police officer should read the Greens once. [[Rejoicing and congratulation with the Greens]] Tania Kambouri is a Greek-born police officer in Germany, the book is called “Germany in the blue light: ==References====External links== You will find on the first few pages these actions that took place in Cologne and other cities. This has been politically motivated, ladies and gentlemen, that has been planned. This is how we deal with our cultural situation. There is a parallel society that is trying to take a foothold here. Ladies and gentlemen, read this book, you will find it again! You know, as a police officer, I've already brought a lot of examples of what's going on in this country. You can find everything in this book. I was amazed because in Germany it is a little worse than in Austria. I would just like to give that to you again. Then I read in the “star” that a police officer is interviewed who says about the incidents in Cologne: They're standing in front of one and just tearing down that paper that shows it as provisional refugees and saying I'll get a new one tomorrow. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have such political systems, we need not be surprised when our laws, our right to be trampled on. This has changed, and we do not have the problem that we now have with these refugees or immigrants. I am careful with the expression “refugees”, because, as has been rightly said today, up to 60 percent – probably even more – are economic refugees, these are not refugees of war. That is not what I am saying, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the “ZiB 2” of human rights expert Manfred Nowak. He then also referred to something else, namely that we have a deportation problem with criminal persons from Morocco, Tunisia or Algeria, as these states do not take these people back. He was then asked several times by Mr Wolf how we can solve the problem. Mr Nowak just sucked with his shoulders and said: We can't solve it, that's the way it is, they're all staying in Austria or in Europe. Now we have to consider how we can change this, and that is what policy is responsible. You can also read this call for help in this book by calling on policy to adopt measures that also comply with this rule of law, so that laws are implemented again that police officers who have state power again have rights, that justice again judges that the media are taking part and not spreading any untruths that the social workers are drawing on a line – then integration can work. Integration is the key, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If you always talk about integration and you don't live, it doesn't work. After there is no way to push these people off, think about the following: In Africa there is plenty of space, high unemployment, few jobs. Why not set up an EU wait camp for these persons who are no longer entitled to live in Austria or in Germany or in Europe, where they can then live and are cared for by African supervisors? We are funding this from the EU. There they have a waiting time, and who remembers again – because that's the next problem that they don't know where they come from – where his family is at home can then go home voluntarily. That would be the right policy, ladies and gentlemen, that would be a sign that we should set. Because if today almost everyone who is wrong in Austria – who has become guilty here, has no genuine asylum status or whose asylum application has been rejected – then we do have a law, but we cannot implement it. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] How can a rule of law be interpreted when there are laws that are not implemented?- Oh, my God! Then we have the problem of building a parallel society with peace judges and other institutions that have nothing to do with our rule of law, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16132	The Member of the European Parliament speaks of Mrs Mag. Regner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16154	Dear sisters here in the National Council! Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Two basic principles apply not only at the moment, but also permanently, namely order and security on the one hand and respect for human rights on the other. This is, of course, a tension relationship in which we find ourselves. Security requires planning, guidance and respect for human rights, asylum law is an absolute, individual right and, of course, there can be no ceiling. This tension ratio is, of course, very difficult for many to resolve when it comes to daily life. How can we now make this political in Austria at local, regional, national and, of course, in all European countries? That is why I am now expressing my thanks not only to all the volunteers who have already been particularly active in this crisis, to all firemen, police officers and all those who overtime, but – perhaps something unusual in This House – including those who work politically to ensure that this communication and cooperation between the federal government, countries and communities works. It is extremely difficult – I now see this almost remotely, the European Parliament – to offer solutions more or less in detail. This is very important, however, and we see how difficult it is in other European countries. I am therefore very sorry that especially the FPÖ members cannot join in this thanks, because only in the end can we make some progress in the European countries, but also nationally. So it's not about fear, it's about breaking up this tension relationship. And that's just a European thing. It is a geopolitical challenge, it is a European political challenge and, of course, it is a challenge in which we ultimately have to bring together a lot. Many have mentioned it: There are only two of these hotspots. Much that was decided is right, but it's in children's shoes. If something's in the kids' shoes, it doesn't work yet. I don't like the pace either. The lack of solidarity among the Member States of the European Union is not only to be regretted, but also to work towards it. But where would we be, if the European Union did not exist, these many European Councils? – jobs They face a huge war in the Middle East, and everyone acts nationally, then the chaos would be much bigger. It is not nice that we now have all these problems, but we have to do exactly there, and there is a lot of small work to do. I would like to remind you of a quote from Commission President Juncker: “Whoever kills Schengen will carry the internal market to its grave in the final effect.” – It has not yet been discussed how many billions of euros it costs when we start to restore these borders rigorously. The German economy alone expects €10 billion per year. Of course, security needs to be ensured, but a kind of Schengen suspension that ultimately leads to economics being lost is, of course, absolutely regrettable. In Syria, 400 000 people are almost at risk of hunger. That is, hunger is more or less used as a war weapon. That is why it is all the more our commitment in the European countries, not only to comply with those commitments made at European Councils, so to speak, to enter into the monetary commitments, but to make more or less the commitments that are promised. And this is a whole bunch of measures that start with certainty and, of course, also includes a lot of humanitarian services. I would like to talk about one aspect of security that was disturbed, namely the attacks in Paris: These attacks were mostly committed with weapons that had already been expelled, i.e. weapons that were no longer registered. It is all the more important now to address this security problem and to ensure better labelling. As a result, this is also a means of solving the problem in Europe. So summarized – as honourable Members Königsberger-Ludwig said –: We need a plan to save human beings, and this, of course, takes account of all the security requirements that are necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16217	The next speaker is the member of the European Parliament Becker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16238	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear guests at the visitor galleries! Dear Interested Watch out for ORF III! As a security spokesman for the EIA in the European Parliament, since the beginning of the legislative period of the European Parliament in 2014, I have been permanently concerned with the issues of migration, asylum, the refugee crisis, the fight against terrorism and the related data protection issues. At present, I am also the chief negotiator of my group on the new EU Visa Code. From this point of view, I would like to highlight a sentence that is very often heard: The EU has failed! – The image of today – and I can explain this – shows that the institutions of the European Union, especially those who have legislative mandates and have the task of taking action, i.e. the Commission and, subsequently, the committees of the European Parliament and Parliament as a whole, have worked very quickly, very comprehensively, very detailedly and specifically. In more than 12 packages with many subpoints, with a much more than one hundred points detailed programm, everything is on the table. Yes, also with the approval of the EU Member States in the Council. Implementation was the problem. Not the EU has failed, but individual Member States have refused to implement it. I think this is what citizens need to know, because the EU, the European Union, as the only level to be able to solve these problems in the long term, has actually acted effectively. Over the course of this work, the Austrian Minister of the Interior has been fully involved at both the Commission and the European Parliament, like no other minister or any other minister in the EU as a whole. [[Abg. Bösch: In the council she will bring herself in!]] It has personally presented all the programmes including the “Save Lives Project” in the European Parliament Committee and is pleased to receive the approval of all the political groups, except yours sitting in the Le Pen corner and melting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[towards FPÖ]] A knowledge is certain: If the national governments of the European Union had implemented the decisions they themselves had taken, we would no longer have had the problems since the beginning of last summer. This is the case for individual governments, and I think that only from this point of view can we see the legitimacy of the Austrian Federal Government, which has taken decisions at the initiative of the Austrian People's Party, which, of course, must only be taken in the interests of Austrian citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, it is also necessary to put pressure on those States that do not do their homework at all, such as Greece, in part Italy and in some of the other Member States of Eastern Europe, who simply and simply do not implement decisions. There are almost 100 EU procedures against these states for violations of law, and we should be aware of that. I don't want to explain these points in detail, you know a lot, you can read it. Unfortunately, many of you refuse to do so. This includes, as you know, the issue of combating terrorism. I think we know that the EU Member States have committed themselves – and now the word is coming – to fight terrorism together. I would just like to give you one example: It is high time that the intelligence services of these states finally exchange data. I would like to say a few words on the subject of the new Dublin agreement, because we have the new Commission proposal on the table in March, that is, in a few weeks' time. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I know that the Austrian Federal Government and again the Minister made the best and most active proposals. It is safe to support my colleagues in the European Parliament and the People's Party. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16303	Mrs Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16324	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to say, first of all, that I am surprised whether the speech of the Green Member was Reimon, who actually meant that the FPÖ was to blame, that the government is not working and that it is doing Putin policy. So, with all due respect, Mr Reimon, I think you are the reason why we did not want European Members to talk in the national Parliament, because there is really no need for such stupidity in this place.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16354	Ladies and gentlemen, to qualify a colleague's speech as a "foolence" please! Do you want to take it back? Otherwise, I'll have to give you an order call. [[Abg. Schimanek: No, I won't take it back!]] – Then I give you a call for order, Mrs Schimanek, and regret that you do not want to see that this is not part of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16398	Whatever. Mr President, I am sorry you gave me a call for an order for it, but Mr...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16414	You don't need to comment!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16429	Mr Reimon would also have deserved a call for an order. [[Cheerfulness with greens and FPÖ.]] So now I come to my speech: I was also very surprised today at this European discussion that so little has been said on the part of the Greens and also on the part of the SPÖ. The only contribution I have heard from Mr Harald Vilimsky, who spoke as an EU Parliamentary on these incredible incidents during New Year's Eve. Mr Nachbaur will forgive me, I think she has a little more room for manoeuvre in the ÖVP that she can also address this issue, but I really miss it today. Because when you see what's happening and there's no one, really no female-political cry, I'm very surprised. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Brunner.]] Many politicians and media representatives were quite overwhelmed by this situation during New Year's Eve. In particular, a radio broadcast has remained in my ears, where the moderator has started the report with the following words: The events in Cologne are a disaster for all those who work for refugees. I was sitting in the car and I thought: Excuse me? Not a disaster for the women to whom this happened? No, it's not. Events are a disaster for all those working for refugees?- Oh, my God! – This has been mediated with this issue, and that, I mean, is simply a disaster. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In many media, experts have also been stopped not even to mention the topic of refugees and asylum seekers in this context. That means it was deliberately kept secret and deliberately concealed. I really wonder how this can happen. An uncontrolled Merkel-unruly policy that brings together that we as women in our own country can no longer feel secure is really a problem. I would have expected the government parties to raise their spirits. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To say that an arm length distance would be enough, we should not wear short skirts – I think I find that inconceivable, and I expect clear words! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In spite of all the unknowing calls, this unworthy spectacle has been played in our country, in our Austria still security-political Harakiri. The population no longer understands this method. Yes, we in Austria are for humanity and we are also happy to help, but we have no understanding for concealment and for misunderstanded welcome culture. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the image of women, the very many young men who have come to us, will not change with an eight-hour training from today to tomorrow. This is too deep, and there will be no integrational fibble either. We must create clear rules and show that this does not work and cannot go! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Your exaggerated kindness, your remote reality Welcome Sharakiri has served! Now is the time to get rid of the spirits you called for for our European society of values, for our women, our children, for security in Austria and in Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16540	Now comes Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16562	Ladies and gentlemen! FPÖ-Klubobmann Strache said at the beginning of the debate that he wanted to see whether the claims of the refugees were true that they actually had to flee and pursue. I can calm down Klubobmann Stache, this possibility exists – and it is called asylum procedures. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Exactly!]] This is precisely the task of the asylum procedure, and the crucial point is that we cannot solve this question at the border, not by means of passport control and not by means of facial checks, which can only be resolved by means of an asylum procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] And all those who now go home with sham solutions such as ceilings or border-tights should say what these solutions mean. First of all, this is the flourishing tow. The truck from Parndorf won't have been the last. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Secondly, They are supposed to say how they want to enforce ceilings and how they want to enforce border-tights. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] This means that not only do children probably have to hide away from batons, but a substantial militarization of border security. The Iron Curtain has shown us what effort is needed to close borders. This means military mobility at the Austrian borders. Do you want FPÖ, ÖVP and SPÖ? – This is the crucial question. This question has to be answered. If You do not want to do that, you should also tell the Austrians the consequences that come from such sham solutions. What's going to happen? – refugees will be forced into illegality if they are no longer able to do so in the context of an asylum procedure. Illegality means undeclared work, children without education, homelessness and in the worst case small crime. Is this the solution of SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ you want? The second point concerns political Islamism. I don't want political Islamism in the Arab region, and I don't want it in Austria either. In my opinion, political Islamism has no place in the Arab region or in Europe. Political Islamism is a totalitarian ideology, which, in my opinion, is at a level of right-wing extremism and, as well as right-wing extremism, pursues the same goals, namely authoritarian structures, anti-democratic structures and the persecution of political opponents. I don't think that's a place like that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, those who draw the red line to political Islamism must also draw this red line to those Islamists who oppose us in the suit, and this Islamist is in the suit of Turkish President Erdoğan. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Here I am with you!]] This is the negotiating partner of the European Union. This is the man who is now being highly subsidized, who will militarize with this subsidisation and who with this militarization will actually trigger the refugee wave of tomorrow. The next wave of refugees, and this has already been said correctly by Mr Reimon, comes from Turkey. The European Union's funds will bring repression to Turkey. That is why there is a need for a border crossing on Islamism, but with all the consequences, and not a foreign minister who follows this President in Turkey, and not a European Union that helps this President with money to carry out a militarization in his own country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The third point concerns Cologne. The violation of sexual integrity and self-determination is unacceptable, whether it has been committed by a national, a foreigner, a refugee or anyone else. It is an achievement of the feminist movement, of 50 years feminism, that in Austria the sensitivity in these attacks is extremely high. There is nothing to relativize, and there is nothing to explain. - That's the first point. Second point: But there is nothing to be flattened either. There is no fissure, not in the family, not in religion, not in gender, not in ethics. [[Abg. Honey: Who's claiming that?]] Third point: There must also be no duplication in this debate. What is not going on is to stir up now about sexual assaults and to polemise in the Austrian Parliament half a year ago in the intensification of the penalties for sexual harassment – as the FPÖ has done. This is unacceptable. This double-beddedness can't work. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] It is the same section in criminal law that we are discussing, and no matter where and from whoever this attack takes place, he is to be suspected. It's just as bad as the other one. Therefore, this double morale, once to polemize and excite itself next time, is totally unacceptable, and that is the crucial point. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haider and Mr Schimanek.]] The Greens were consistent at the time and are now consistent: Sexual harassment has no place.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16685	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16706	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I think that's something you've got to do with the historical revision. When four parliamentary parties agreed that it would be better to protect the sexual integrity of women in Austria, it was precisely the FPÖ and the Stronach team that voted against. [[Abg. Haider: You impoverished again!]] [[Abg. Darmann: This is inconceivable!]] That is, we have deliberately intensified sexual criminal law so that we can suspect exactly such things. And now to say that nothing is done and the Federal Government is doing nothing is somewhat cynical and, above all, historically wrong. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I now come to the real issue: I believe that in recent months the Federal Government has proposed a lot of measures that were purely symbolic and in fact would not change a lot. There were now clear measures, of which at least a few are not only purely symbolic, but are all the more penetrating. These measures can be asked if the proposals for solutions are only nationally effective, whether they have the whole thing in mind, whether they are good and above all – and this is the essential point – whether they are legal and practical. Now the Federal Government is proposing a ceiling for refugees; and I am convinced that all of us here in the area believe that there are actual capacity limits in Austria that we cannot help everyone who needs help. I am also convinced that we must take care of those who have to flee a war zone that has to flee because of personal persecution. I am also convinced that we must ensure that refugees are distributed at European level. But what is not going on is a ceiling on human rights. Asylum is a human right, and human rights have no upper limit. There are no limits on human rights. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens as well as the Abg. Wenninger.]] Significant for the absurdity of this proposal is the fact that the press conference has announced: We have once agreed politically, and whether this is legally possible, we will then examine it. – This is very significant. It is even more significant to note that the experts who are to examine this have already said, in fact, that a complete ceiling will not work. By the way, it could have been read simply because nowhere in the Geneva Convention on Refugees or in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is anything from a numerical ceiling. By the way, you can also look at the “ZIB 2” interview with Professor Nowak from yesterday, he says exactly the same. In my opinion, it is even more significant if the Minister of the Interior in the ZIB 2 says: Now let's leave the legal one aside. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] – This is not acceptable because we live in a rule of law, and in a rule of law one does not leave the legal person aside. That's where the legal person has to be kept, and not to leave aside! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Abg. Haider: Tag Border Protection!]] It's right, Europe's on its way. Europe is particularly concerned about this because 28 national states cannot agree on solutions together, because there are some national states that believe that they are bringing about the corresponding solution with border fences. If there are Member States in the European Union who urge solidarity – and that is right in many respects – and if solidarity is required of them, only the raisins are selected and do not want to be in solidarity, then Europe will break down. This is not the idea of Europe, after which Europe and the European Union were originally created. On the other hand, enjoying the benefits of Europe also means showing solidarity when it is necessary. We need a common security of the European external borders, and all those countries wishing to be part of Schengen must join forces in a solidarity of refugees. The fact that the ÖVP as a former European party now supports 28 national border fences is one thing. The other is the fact that the SPÖ, which in the International sings that it is fighting human rights, is now obviously falling over with the asylum novel, and that at least parts of the SPÖ have known a ceiling on human rights since the latest. [[Call the ÖVP: And the NEOS?]] The final result of such attitudes and ideas is that we are carrying the European Union to the grave, thus breaking down over short or long Europe and the European Union, this great project.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16820	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16841	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the gallery! Believers at home in front of the TVs! Mr. Scherak, I have to give you the right thing: Politics does not come true without a right. Policy must be based on law, and policy must respect the right. That is why what you have just said is absolutely right. I would also like to turn to a second gentleman, Mr Reimon. I'm not here to wash anyone in. I'm not here to clean up Putin's politics, either, but I might be standing here to do it – yes, how to say? – Fraud to distribute a little better, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein. But I would like to ask you one thing: Have you ever heard of the US-led defense alliance, called NATO, in the European Parliament, which, with its international wars of attack, leads to a great refugee crisis and a great injustice, especially in the Middle East and the Middle East? – This ignorance is actually very interesting for me. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, all those who have now listened to these contributions to this item on the agenda, I think, conclude that we are living in a very difficult, very conflict-rich, but also very historic time, because what is going on in Europe will probably not be able to return to another way without deep traces on our continent. Mass immigration as such always results in cultural change in the area where the masses are moving. This has already been laid down by Gustave Le Bon in his widely known booklet “Psychology of the Masses”, and I believe that this is also the great concern of the people. Mr Zinggl said something similar yesterday in the Constitutional Committee: Well, it keeps the masses mixed, it mixes the races and it mixes the cultures. I think that today's title "Security instead of Asylum Chaos" is a good title for a current European hour, because Austria alone cannot solve this problem of refugees. We need the European Union or the initiatives of the European Union, because, although these two terms of "security" and "Asylchaos" do not necessarily need to be supplemented, I believe that they must be able to relate to one word very well, and that is the fear – and the people are afraid. If you listen to the population, then infinitely often the people's suggestions and stories appear that they are afraid of their lives, fear of their good and fear of the future of their children. But all of this would not have to be taken up by the population. If we were sovereign in our state, if we were not a member of the EU, we could determine faster, more freely and decisively through our external borders. One point that always comes up in these discussions is the cost. The costs of migration caused by immigration in Austria and Europe. I think there is actually no solution for this, except that they are constantly placed on the taxpayer. But I think there might be a solution. Why don't we also proceed according to the 'polluter pays' principle? – It is the arms industry that is the cause of the problem. Why can't they be obliged simply to take part of these costs for migration, immigration and destruction in the countries? A second point concerns women. All that has happened in Cologne has simply been terrifying; and it has happened not only in Cologne, but in many cities of Austria, in many cities of Germany. I found an interview with Ms. Dudu Kücükgöl in the “Small Newspaper”, which is a Viennese Islamic feminist. In Austria, one argues about whether to give someone the hand or not, and there are big discussions and newspaper articles. Mrs Kücükgöl was then asked why the hand is not given, and she replied: “This has nothing to do with harassment or insult, but it’s about privacy.” I would like to add the following: We European women too have a privacy, and absolutely beyond our privacy, it is when men hands make themselves under our skirts and our blouses if we do not want to.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16899	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:39:51]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e16920	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[12:40:02]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 7035/AB and on the reply to the question 6819/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17135	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 7035/AB to Question No 7257/J by Mr Mag. Loacker, colleagues and colleagues on “Retirement of Austria’s Post AG” by the Federal Minister for Finance. The short debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 6819/AB of Question No 7094/J by Mr Schenk, colleagues on ‘Islamic State in Austria’ by the Federal Minister for the Interior. This short debate will take place following the first brief debate. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17168	In order to be able to negotiate item 1 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the written committee report. This is the report of the Constitutional Committee on Popular Desire (781 of the Supplements) ‘EU-AUSTRITS-Volksberegen’, 997 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for the removal of the delay to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17195	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 to 7, 10 and 11 as well as 12 to 18 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - No, that's not the case. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17219	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122, FPÖ 113, Green 95 and NEOS and Stronach 50 minutes each. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club within 25 minutes of this Decision. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We come to the vote on the speaking time presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – That is unanimously decided. [[12:43:37]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on People's Desire (781 e.g.) ‘EU EXTRITTS POPULATION’ (997 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17266	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First word message: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17296	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! For the ‘EU withdrawal’, the following shall be stated: How did we treat it? – The Constitutional Committee negotiated it in two very large meetings, which were divided into the following: At the first meeting, the experts of the political groups were heard in the House, and it has A debate was held among the Members. This discussion was also wanted to be held with the proponents of popular desire, but unfortunately they left the first session, and we could not negotiate directly with them. In the second session, experts were also invited, but this time only at the request of the proponents of popular desire, and the representatives of the people's desire and their two alternates had the opportunity to express their concerns in detail and in a separate session. There has again been a discussion of the Members, this time with the proponents of popular desire. To this discussion, I can tell the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee that none of the political groups were in favour of leaving the European Union, but that there were different criticisms of the European Union, one more group, the other less. My personal opinion on this is: Although not everything is in order with the European Union, the generalizations with which the proponents of this popular desire have worked must also be countered by manual figures. To say: Everything has become worse, jobs have become less expensive, it has all become more expensive, it is all worse and the gross national product is shrinking, that is not true. It's not true! The studies, and there are many of them, read through and lead to contemplation, become clear: All assume that the rise in gross national product of 0.9 percent has resulted from the accession to the European Union, amounting to a rise of €2.4 billion. There are further studies that only through the abolition of borders within this economic area has €1.7 billion been saved, and all these studies expect that some 18,000 new jobs have been created annually by accession to the European Union. That is to say, the arguments that are so common in the Economic and Social Committee do not stand up to any scientific review, but the opposite is the case, and this must be expressed once again in all criticism of the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that economic unity, which is capable of successfully raising economic union, is therefore undisputed. Of course, there is also Mankos, but the problem of a Union that comes together from different national states is that it is not a static structure, but a dynamic one that is constantly being and will be faced with new challenges. It is currently the problem of refugees. The fact that the European Union has not given rise to great fame and has not yet clung to it is certainly the case. However, it is easier to find a solution to such a serious problem in the Community than to leave it to any individual nation-state. However, as long as the European Union is slowing down here, we are of course also called upon as a national state to make our contribution to the order of this, the arrival and the organisation of refugees. I therefore believe that the European Union has much more benefits, only when considering the environment. No river stops at a border, no cloud stops at a border, no wind stops at a border, all environmental problems are much easier to solve in the Community than for a nation-state. The refugee problem will only be solved together, it will only take longer for all to understand, but at some point it will happen because it is a dynamic process, and until then we will have to solve our own tasks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this reason, leaving the European Union was neither supported by a Member nor called for in any form. That is to say, this Parliament agrees that we should not approach the withdrawal people's desire – with a different degree of criticism from the various political groups on the EU. This is my report as President of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17362	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gerstl speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17384	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I can connect seamlessly to the statements made by my predecessor. It marks the High House that it is there, where it is important for Austria, closed and uniform. However, I am still under the impression of yesterday's Committee meeting and would particularly like to address the initiators of this popular desire. I have seen in their faces real worries, true fears, not only among the initiators who have been sitting on the stage as experts, but with those who have been sitting in the audiences, and that has bothered me. It is not the fact that they have expressed other opinions here that, as my colleague has said, deny any scientificness that has bothered me, but that they no longer believe the arguments that have been proved. And that is something that must give all of us to think that we are increasingly facing a public that is losing confidence in science, which is increasingly losing confidence in institutions. That is why I think it is very important that we carry out such an investigation and that 20 years after accession to the EU, it cannot be the case that initiators of a popular desire show that the EU would not be democratic. The question is that the EU Parliament is a democratic instrument that is disturbing me. The fact that Members are directly elected by the people is put down as if we were strange, where Austrian Members are sitting. It is not noted that every decision in the EU involves a minister from Austria and co-decisions with all the important decisions of the Federal Chancellor. In the social media, when I have contact with people, I am still accused: There is no such thing as a voice from Europe. – No, there is no one voice, there are only the votes of 28, and in many cases the principle of unanimity still applies. At any rate, Austria is involved in any decision. That's what we're asking for. It is necessary that we draw attention to the fact that we are taking part in Brussels and that we are not decided on when we are not involved. This is a crucial point in the argumentation. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scherak.]] The second point that bothered me was that more and more people believe that you have more influence on your life than you are working with a partner or as a state with other countries. I think it is very important to state that there is nothing left to be decided by one state alone in this world and that all the countries of the world cooperate with others somewhere, whether the Arab League or the Gulf States, whether the ASEAN countries or NAFTA. Thus, all parts of the earth work together. We must explain to people that prosperity is only possible if we work together respectfully if we work with others in this way. avoid that the other also has an added value, only then we also have an added value. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP, as well as of Mr Scherak and Mr Strolz.]] This cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, is important. Cooperation prevents wars, secures peace and increases our prosperity. Therefore: Yes to Europe and yes to the EU!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17441	Mr Mag. Stefan is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17462	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, especially initiators of popular desire, about which we are currently talking! I have had great joy that there has been the opportunity to discuss this popular desire. If it were claimed here that the experts would all have been scientifically rebuttal – so I definitely didn't have the impression. For example, what Prof. Schachtschneider said was already very well-founded, and it was very interesting lectures and by no means easy to disprove. This is simply a question of the point of view, but here, at least, it is not to be removed, because of “all things scientifically disproved”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am therefore very pleased that this discussion is being conducted at all, and I also have a great understanding of the content of the initiative, because what the European Union represents and how it has developed is a massive criticism. And if it has been said here that no political group has called for EU withdrawal, that is right in this form. In the course of the meeting on popular desire, we did not call for EU withdrawal, but what is always clear is that there can be this consequence. We strongly criticise the development of the European Union. For example, if there is a accession to Turkey, that will certainly be a point for us to ask for Austria to leave because we do not want to be a member of such a European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, the development of the European Union, the increasing centralization and thus the ever-increasing loss of sovereignty in Austria, the debt union, the inability to solve problems or even to create their own problems, such as the Russian sanctions and so on, and so on – I understand very much that there is a massive degree of opposition here. We're not alone with that. In Austria, there are surveys that a large majority of the population is likely to have great scepticism towards the European Union, especially towards the Commission. There are surveys in other European countries, as we know, which say the same thing. We will see what is happening in Britain or better in England. For example, we know that Iceland withdrew the application; Norway would never ever consider joining the European Union. There the mood is at 10 percent per EU and so on. Development is therefore quite clear, and the mood is also quite clear. That is why I have great understanding of the initiative. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what is far more important and what this is all about is that we discuss a popular desire that was successful in the sense of the Austrian legal order, because it had more than 100,000 signatures. But it has not only had more than 100 000 signatures, but also 261 000 signatures, and these are more than 4 percent of citizens entitled to vote. This is an incredible success, because the initiators did not have much support. They had no party behind them, they had no big institutions behind them, they had no media behind them. On the contrary! We know very well that all the media in Austria are working against it and are not voting for or voting for an EU withdrawal, but rather on the contrary. That is to say, there was a media counterwind, no support – and then 261,000 people go, declare themselves and sign completely targeted. This must be seen as a huge success, and that is a very essential point in talking about this popular desire. But what happens to such a popular desire? Yeah, we're talking about it today. This is all a little bit of a progress, that you at least take a little note of it here, but then it's over. It will be voted on or taken note of today's report, and that was it, although 261,000 people have declared themselves. That's what I'm talking about. We have a clear concept of how to deal with direct democracy in this country, and we have said quite clearly: If 4 percent of the population – and therefore it is quite interesting that this popular desire has such support – declare themselves and set an initiative, then this number of people must have the opportunity to bring an initiative to a referendum. This is a very important point so that the population can become an initiative itself. Our concept is always: What Parliament has to do with the population, too. That's a very clear concept, and you'll see how important it is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Interestingly, how important direct democracy is can also be seen in the Federal President's election. Since it is suddenly very essential that the Federal President be elected by the population, he therefore also has a special importance. So, in reality, all those acting know that it is important that the population can directly participate in decisions, but it is just the fear that it seems greater to allow it to be voted on about something that is no longer in control. And this is definitely the case here. The agreement with the European Union has certainly fallen quite a bit. In this context, I only remember how the European Union has dealt with us: Sanctions because in Austria a coalition was formed which was not acceptable. We must not forget that, that is also the European Union! Or the European Union in dealing with Hungary, a country that is the only one that has resisted this mass inflow – what has been the consequence? – An attempt was made to penalise Hungary or to take action against Hungary instead of making it clear that at least one adheres to the rules of the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All of this is the European Union, and that is why frustration in the population is clear. We want to open up to the people at least a small opportunity to raise their voices even more. That is why I now propose that a popular survey be carried out on this subject of popular desire. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am absolutely clear that a People's Survey is ultimately non-binding. But we also know, on the other hand, that it is a very clear signal when a popular survey results accordingly. That is why I am now putting quite formally the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council in accordance with Art. 49b B-VG submit a request concerning the holding of a People’s Survey on Austria’s departure from the EU for decision-making.’; If you are so sure that the European Union – I do not know how many – secures tens of thousands of jobs and is at all the largest peace project in the world and so on, then you will probably also be able to convince the people so firmly that they have no problems. If you are not so sure about this, you will probably vote against it now that there is a public survey at all. That's clear to me. But it is essential – and this is what you see here right now in the treatment of this popular desire: How do we deal with direct democracy? Do we allow it? - Allow! Just that we're talking about it at all! Allow Parliament – that is absurd! Let us make it possible for the population to become an initiative on its own! Let's let it go! Voices For this people's survey!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17583	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Stefan is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17678	Next, Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17699	Mr President. I am pleased that we once again have a specific popular desire in Parliament to deal with it, although I do not wish to hide the fact that I did not share it, did not support it and, if it were to result in further treatment, by means of a People's Survey or a referendum, would vote against it. I or we share the criticism of the European Union. My colleague Wolfgang Zinggl will do this even more in detail. But our conclusion is that the measure we would like to take is and is another. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This is certainly not the departure from the European Union, but what was introduced a few years ago on the ESM negotiations in the form of a request from Mr Kogler, together with Mr Muttonen and Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, a European Convention dealing with the question of how to develop the European Union's democracy, to strengthen Parliament, to reform the institutions at the level of democracy policy. So our announcement is not leaving. Nevertheless, I am glad that we are dealing with this today, because, as my previous speaker from the FPÖ has already said, this is, of course, an opportunity to speak again about direct democracy. We have done this very often in recent years, too. Mr Stefan knows that I, just as he and Mr Scherak of the NEOS, have been very committed to the further development of direct democracy in recent months and years. We have set up a number of initiatives here. We also want the three-stage national legislation, we also have the four-percent rule in here, but it has not yet come to pass. Mr Gerstl, if you are talking about confidence in the institutions, I must say: It is no surprise that confidence in the institutions, and not only in the European ones, is falling, because if you deal with popular desires as we have done in the last decades – with “we” I now mean Austrian politics – if you are dealing with criticism as you have just done now, because if you let something so teflon-like and do not get into a discourse at all – this has arrived with me where you also see the problems and wherever you need to go, then I understand that people who listen to us here, who have been pursuing politics for years, no longer have confidence in Austrian politics, in the institutions. I have only spoken about democracy now, but we are also talking about education, we are talking about environmental protection. There people experience daily, not only at European level, but also at Austrian level, that there are lip confessions, but that nothing goes on. [[Abg. Stefan: Oh, ever: but!]] Of course, the FPÖ's request is staggering for someone like me who has been fighting for direct democracy for years. But I'm telling you: Unfortunately, I have to reject him. That is because I am against the fact that individual situations are being picked out, individual popular desires are being picked out and polled for these. I also found it impossible to survey the military service because it took place within a framework where it was not clear who was actually questioning who was making sure that this question was an objective one, who is providing sufficient information, so that all the people who decide to participate also have the sufficient basis for the decision. And we've seen how it turned out. We have seen that without these regulations, which are very important to all of us in our models of direct democracy, for example in the military questioning that people say afterwards: So somehow I felt immaculate, I didn't even go! Even the proponents themselves said yesterday that the popular survey is not a desirable story from their point of view. But this is not supposed to be the main argument. In other words, from our point of view, there needs to be a system in which all the people who set up an initiative can rely: Once I have obtained a certain number of signatures, have a certain number of support, there should be a very clear procedure as to how it continues, and that means in a next step: Exchange with Parliament – Parliament can then say yes, we are getting closer to it, or no, we are not doing it anyway – and then the opportunity to go so far here that at the end there is a referendum. What we have seen about this popular desire is that Parliament is far from yet fit to deal with such initiatives. I also criticised the initiative in the Committee yesterday for not taking part in this first meeting in December, but for not taking it out, although I understood it as a form of protest. But democracy now lives from the exchange, from the differentiated discussion, and for this to happen is necessary. I'm probably not going to experience it in my political life anymore that we are implementing direct democracy. But maybe you'd like to give me a farewell in the next three months.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17739	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17762	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Wittmann has already referred to the process of popular desire and how it has been dealt with, and I have noticed two things in particular during the discussion on popular desire. This is, on the one hand, the dissatisfaction with the European Union, with its institutions, with the institutional structure. That's what I'm sharing. I think there are things that can be done far better. I also believe that we have problems in the democratic approach of the European Union and that more democracy would be possible. For example, the Council is far more powerful than Parliament and, with a veto of a single state, has the opportunity to block something; on the other hand, the European Parliament itself has no right of initiative. These are all democratic deficits that need to be improved and that one must work on. The second thing I noticed is the way in which the popular desire was discussed. Mr Gerstl has already made it very clear. I share the criticism and expressed it very clearly in the Committee yesterday: It always belongs to democracy that one hears the argument of the other and listens to the argument – and we have already heard it – but if one takes out the first hearing in the committee and does not listen to the expert, then this has very little to do with democracy. Nor does it have anything to do with democracy, in my opinion, if all the experts who are invited by the political parties per se agree with and say that they are not experts at all. I think that's anything but fine. We have heard that Austria is supposed to become democratic and rule of law only if we leave the European Union. As a Member of this House, I must strongly reject this, because we are a democratic state and the rule of law applies to us. One can always be dissatisfied if the majority decides something that you do not like, that is legitimate at any time. However, the fact is that the majority cannot be agreed that it acts democratically, because it is a essence of democracy that ultimately decides on a majority and, accordingly, also protects minorities. We have heard that there is no sharing of power in the European Union. So I think it is basically very good if you have a European Court of Justice, a Parliament has a Commission, a Council, and since the division of powers is very clear. Furthermore, in the European legislative process, it is noted that much, much more of the proposals in the parliamentary process are being changed than in the Austrian Parliament, for example. Yesterday, we heard that 80 percent of the regulations we decide here in Parliament come from the European Union anyway. This is simply not right either, because there are scientific studies that say it's about 10 percent; and if you look at the qualitative aspects, it's perhaps 40 percent, but it's certainly not 80 percent. At the end of the day, almost all the Members here in Parliament have, in principle, assumed that we are all bound by a force of clubs. Now this might be true of some of us here, but I can say of myself that this does not apply to me. and I am deeply convinced, as a free Member, that it is not right to leave the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] Finally, on the FPÖ's request: I understand Mr Stefan's concern, because we have made a joint final report, namely the minority report on the democratic survey, but I am quite argumentative with Mrs Musiol, that it is not easy to break it off the fence, because there are many conditions that are necessary for direct democracy. My personal opinion is: If I look at the procedure – we have now noticed how it has been dealt with in Parliament, and the questionable discussion of whether the real experts are, whether there are only half-truths from the ministries, we have heard all of this, until some Members dispute that we are living in a democracy – then I am not sure whether we should not first create sensible rules that should apply in general, instead of simply breaking a people's survey from the fence.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17833	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17854	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I see this a little different from my previous speaker. I am very, very critical of the European Union. I am primarily convinced Austrian. And as a Vorarlberger one naturally has the proximity to Switzerland and there has a direct democracy that I would like to see for Austria in many areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Upper Countries!]] - No, I'm a foreigner. Now to the EU's exodus popular desire: Ladies and gentlemen! I can absolutely understand the concerns and intentions of the operators of this popular desire. Even though I am convinced Europeans – I am not only Austrian but also Europeans and I am glad about it – it is not all good what is happening in the European Union. If you look at the party program of the Stronach team – I already gave this notice to the proponents of popular desire yesterday – you will find many points that you have addressed there. We are very critical of the European Union, but of course we see this so-called peace project as a peace project, and that is also a point. I also spoke to you yesterday about how you imagine leaving. If, if we were to take this decision today or soon, we would be voting for a referendum, and this referendum was supposed to be a withdrawal, then what would follow? If we take such steps, we need to think carefully about what we would do next, how bilateral and multilateral agreements would look. You know, I mentioned it yesterday: How do we look with the schilling? You said to put 1:1 from the euro into the schilling and then let the currency develop. These are certainly many, many questions that are still open. That is why I believe that the time is not yet ripe to take this decision. I can win the FPÖ a little bit with popular desire. We will agree with this, because it is a reasonable view that one should ask the people. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we must also remember that this popular desire started last June. If it were to happen today, it would probably not be 261 000 and a few squeaks, but then it would be much more, because of the refugee situation that we now have with the other problems and the helplessness of the EU. Another problem I would like to reveal to you so that you can understand why people outside are no longer satisfied with the EU: I did it in the previous committee in December: For a Before the introduction 14 years ago, I paid 28 Schilling for beer in the inn, and today I pay €4.70 when I go outside to a beer. [[Abg. Wöger: Where is it?]] - Right over there, it's not that hard. That's in the 1st place. District, a normal former student location. You pay for a beer 4,70 €, that's 64,70 schilling. Ladies and gentlemen, this is more than a doubling. Even if I get a cheaper beer by €4.30 or €4.50, this is still twice as expensive within 14 years. No one can explain to me that wages have also developed accordingly. This is a big problem that people of course experience. And a schnitzel with Pommes, I am now already in the more expensive area, there was earlier in the inn around 90 Schilling; for this I pay today from 14,90 € higher, that is 205 Schilling. Ladies and gentlemen, these are already differences you have to think about! [[Call:... Luxury Buds]] These are not luxury houses, but normal guest houses as you find them. It's not in Burgenland. In Burgenland I get this in certain Heurigen of course – I just say it – or in Upper Austria in some Gassl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Berlakovich]] But that's what you have to face. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reason why you have to think about it very well – where are the problems? – and, of course, leave it open. If people no longer agree with this European Union, then you have to consider how to show the Red Card and move the EU there either to rethink – because it is now driving across the countries, you notice in many areas – or you rightly consider this scenario of leaving. What are the consequences? But you have to assess this well and weigh it well. That is why we are not going to agree to this today, but the public survey is a good idea, there we are.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17926	Ms Mag. State Secretary has given his opinion on the matter. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e17948	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Values Proponents of popular desire! My precious listeners! Ladies and gentlemen! I too am allowed to get involved in the debate on popular desire. I also delivered a brief opinion in December in the Constitutional Committee. Today's debated popular desire has been signed by almost 262,000 people, which is about 4.12 percent of the electorate. Now you can see it on the one hand so that it has not been signed by the overwhelming majority, but you can also see it differently and say: 4.12 per cent of the electorate is a size that is not only to be taken seriously, but there is a need to discuss the concerns and criticisms that cannot be easily discussed. cancel. That is why I am glad that we are debating this popular desire today. On the one hand, it can be said that there are various Eurobarometers, surveys where an overwhelming majority is for the European Union, where an overwhelming majority believe that Austria has benefited by joining the European Union. We know the studies on how many thousands of jobs per year have been added by joining the European Union. We also know the examples from the economy that show the benefits of joining the euro area and the other political benefits of the European Union. It's a little surprised me that you're in Your popular desire is also to talk about the fact that you see the peace project Europe as at risk, because I am firmly convinced that the European Union has given us peace and security over the last decades and that in this case it is really a success project. On the other hand, we now see the refugee issue, the economic crisis and the challenges we face in the face of climate change. It is my firm conviction that we do not really need a smaller one, but a more European one. Because refugee crises, economic crises, climate warming – this does not stop beyond national borders. It is not possible to be shot off, to describe as the island of the Blessed, and to believe that if you go up borders, then everything would get better, or that we alone would be better able to meet certain challenges. We now have international markets, we have integrated markets, we live in a globalized world. It is not possible to get shot off like North Korea and hope that everything will pass by us, but we must see that we do not also exist within the European Union alone. That is why it is essential and important for us to work actively in this European Union and, above all, to cooperate and not just to rush and cry, but to do our best to solve such crises. This is reflected in the refugee question. As far as criticism is concerned, which is also expressed in the Constitutional Committee, I am aware that not only three countries within the European Union can show solidarity and solve the whole refugee challenge on their own, but we also need solidarity from the other countries within the European Union. Because we are net payers, we know how many billions of euros are distributed to different European countries, so to speak, within the framework of the financial compensation within the European Union. We know how many ERDF funds flow. We know how many ELA currencies flow. We also know how many other promotions flow; and this solidarity within this flow of support must now also be fought politically in terms of solidarity when it comes to people. I personally miss this solidarity within the European Union, for when we remember the various banking crises and economic crises: There was one summit after another, it was debated for hours, and this commitment of all other European countries can, I believe, be called upon when it comes to people. It is also about seeking European solutions in the context of this asylum crisis. This is a common European asylum law. It's about setting up hotspots as soon as possible, and that's where we help. They are already officials from the public service in Greece to: to build and start these hotspots so that it can work faster. And of course it is also – it has already been discussed today – about securing the European external border. Of course, with all these political challenges that we face and which we have to deal with, it is also so that we live within a democracy. We are in a Europe of several Member States, and such decisions are also compromises, and we must also stand within democracy, and it is a political process, just as many other things, that we can find a compromise between many different opinions and then, above all, carry them through. As bilateral agreements have always been discussed: If I conclude a bilateral agreement with the European Union, I will also have to accept the legal status of the European Union, in which I cannot actively participate – and I would also like to say this in detail here. That's why my conclusion is: Of course, we understand the criticism that comes from this popular desire, but it is more important for us to design, especially to actively and not to distinguish ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18026	Mrs Mag. Muttonen is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18047	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! You already said it: Over 261 000 Austrians voted in favour of a referendum on leaving the EU. That's not a small number. That is why we are also dealing with it here in plenary and before that in two committees. But what does this figure tell us first and foremost? – She tells us that some people are dissatisfied with how the EU is working and how the problems are addressed. The accusations made are very different. Some are based on misunderstandings. There, I think we need to clarify and inform better. But there are also many complaints where European policy is rightly criticized. We also do not claim that everything is good in the EU and everything is going around. It could be a lot better. Think of the refugee policy that has already been discussed, think of the common social and economic policy, the question of the Schengen area or also the tax havens! But all these problems can and must be solved with our European partners in the EU and not by trying to isolate ourselves. No city, no federal state would have the idea to leave Austria, just because federal policy does not fit, but wants to be involved. The European Union is truly not perfect and flawless, but if we look at our history – and I said that yesterday in the Committee – it is the best we have ever created in Europe for peace and for cooperation. If this argument of peace is often resolved easily today, it is certainly also because, fortunately, many people in Austria and in Europe have never had to experience a war directly thanks to the EU. To see that peace is not self-evident, we only need to look into history: We have had the World Wars, the Yugoslavia War, or look into Ukraine, where Russians and Ukrainians who have known themselves and understood themselves as brotherly peoples over the years are hostile to today. ==References====External links== February 1916, the battle of Verdun took place. Half a million people have been killed and wounded in this war trial, including numerous Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen, if these people could see us today if they could see that we have councils and parliaments today in which the European states are fighting their conflicts and trying to resolve that we have created a Union in which we work rather than working against each other, in which we seek compromises instead of escalating conflicts and leading wars, then these people would hardly advise us to leave such a Union, but they would say: [[Abg. Kogler: Well, that's not true!]] Stay inside and fight within this EU for the compromises! We live with over 500 million people on a small continent with very limited resources. There is almost no area in which we or other countries make decisions that do not also have an impact on neighbouring countries. A good example of this – it has already been mentioned – is environmental policy, in which Austria could still have such high standards, but that would not be useful if we had not agreed on common minimum standards across the EU, because, as has been said, climate, air and rivers do not stop at the national border. This also applies to social policy or other policies. No – the way we have taken in Europe is right. We can do much better in this Europe. The EU is a process that is ultimately developing with our actions, with our contribution and with our commitment, but the fundamental sense and benefit of the EU as a place where the Member States meet to resolve conflicts of interest politically and peacefully where we come together to find common solutions can neither be questioned nor our place, Austria's place within the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18090	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18111	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union is often described as a building, a common house under which the peoples of Europe live, a common house of cultural diversity. For me, this is a very beautiful picture that is drawn there, but at the same time it must be noted that this common house is not yet finished, that it is simply incomplete and that it is still necessary to build on the development of this common Europe – for example asylum policy. There are national asylum policies and few European legal instruments, and it is therefore the task of developing the common Europe in this area, too, in order to have a common asylum policy. But many things have been achieved in this common house – the previous speaker has mentioned it –: peacekeeping, at the beginning, the single market, a single currency, freedom of travel and many things that we can be proud of, because we have managed to become a common continent. And we also need to see that this European Union is an answer to globalisation that is global. I am very much in favour of maintaining its interests as a national state, but it is already the sober consideration whether it is not better to be successful internationally in the larger European Community and together if you are going against a large American block or against the Asian economic area and can simply move the interests together than Europe. We have seen this in many international negotiations, whether for climate protection or for other things: We can act more strongly in the common Europe. And the contrast is not – as Mr Hagen said – to be an Austrian patriot or one for the common Europe. I think both of them are going to be able to think Austrian and bring Austrian interests into the common Europe. The fact is that the common Europe is just working on progress, and the task to us is to form the common Europe for political groups. I think it's a little a pity that the only thing that was discussed here today is: Are we doing a popular survey or a referendum or something? - That's important. But operators must also recognise that we are saying that we do not want to leave the EU, but that we are very serious about the concerns of people who have signed. That is exactly what I see as a mission: to accept the criticism, which is also justified, and to shape Europe. An example of this is the fact that Austria is not saying yes and Amen in the European Union, is the question of the right of self-determination in genetic engineering. Europe has approved genetically modified varieties – we do not want to do so. I applied for the right of self-determination as a minister for Austria at the time, and after a long hard process of conviction we enforced it. The right to self-determination applies to genetic engineering. So: One can shape the common Europe. There are many other things to be listed. What has not been mentioned is regional policy. In Austria, this has never been handled in such a way as to help weaker regions in Austria. The European Union has introduced this because it wants weaker regions to be more economically targeted. I am from Burgenland, and the Burgenland has benefited from the EU regional funding programmes. There more people have a job, the economic performance has increased, the purchasing power and, and,. Therefore: In particular, respect for legitimate criticism – and this must be changed in the sense of Austria in Europe – but I think it is always more sensible to sit and participate in the negotiating table than to wait in front of the door for decisions that will then be made across our heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18160	The next speaker is Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18181	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Berlakovich, it is in no way for us today to vote whether we leave the EU or not. There is a request – and only this request will be voted – whether we should hold a People's Survey on this issue – a People's Survey. As has been correctly established: No political group has advocated a procedure or a request to withdraw from the European Union. Now I am surprised that the proponents of direct democracy, whether the Greens or the NEOS, will then, once it comes to that, make a popular survey – and I do not need a special procedure, as we know, the question is very simple: Should we leave or not? – to find all possible wounded excuses to say: Yes, in principle we are for that, but it hardly becomes concrete, we are against it again. And, unfortunately, you are also in the league, my dear colleague. The European Union is not a God-given religious construction, but it is a human work of state created according to reason and purpose, let us say it that way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. & Lower]] [[Abg. Berlakovich:... make active!]] That means we have to check at any time and even now: Does this construction continue to make sense? Is it in the interest of the individual states, and is it also in the interest of our people or our voters? That means we have to ask ourselves: Do we have a legitimacy for what has happened, what has happened since 1994 and what is planned? Are we in the same mood with the voters? There was a referendum in 1994. This has clearly been assumed per year. I too was one of those – I admit – who voted against the party line with Yes at the time. [[Abg. Butter: Bravo!]] That was in retrospect, but I have to say today, a mistake. I've been saying that for four or five years. It has done a lot, and the European Union, which was put to the vote in 1994, is no longer what we have today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us ask ourselves: Did we get a permit from the population in 1994 to get out of the Schilling and go to the Eurozone? - No, I don't. Have we received a permit to apply Austrian law to EU law and to sign the so-called Maastricht Treaty – a clause on: vulgo EU Constitutional Treaty, out of service, concluded parentheses? - No, we don't. We have done everything we can to prevent a vote on this central question with the arguments we have made, as here. For example, have we been looking for consensus with the population on the transfer union, that is, on the almost unlimited liability we have made for insolvent or almost insolvent states? - No, I don't. Did we have the question of Austria's participation, neutral Austria, legitimised in the new Cold War Front under the leadership of the Americans against Russia? Have we allowed this dramatic turn in the self-understanding of Austria as a neutral state to be cancelled to a state that is being drawn into a battlefront against Russia? - No, I don't. And there would be much more. Last: Have we had anyone deny today's immigration and asylum policy? – What is happening at European level is certainly not the case. We have not been allowed to accept it at national level either. I dare to say that neither the ÖVP nor the SPÖ have received any legitimacy from their voters to allow 100 000 or 120 000 illegal immigrants to enter Austria in 2015. I dare to say that. You don't have a legitimation, and you know that. If you had started with this program at the last choice of 2013 – na prost meal! That's also the reason why nothing more than new elections is done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now the request is on the table to hold a People's Survey on this important issue. I see no reason for not agreeing to this now, because that we are in a situation where there is a great gap between the population and the representatives, the actants, is clear – not only in Germany, not only in Austria, you see that everywhere. The best example was Denmark in December 2015: They have put forward one thing of a referendum that would probably have been signed in any state as a bagatelle after 20 minutes of discussion. This was the task of certain special rights and the full integration into the European judicial and police system. Under the impression of the terrorist attacks, for the government, this was a “braided meadow” – under quotation marks: Now all will say that only Europe can save us, only European cooperation and only the task of national rights. Opinion polls gave the No votes only 21 percent, three days before the vote. In the vote itself, there has been a majority of 53.1 percent against the Danish special position and further participation in Europol – which even means Denmark will now leave Europol. This, although the entire media landscape, the entire one, we say once, Nomenklatura voted for the country and all the parties with the exception of a single – that was the People's Party, which has about 12 or 14 percent there – for Yes. That should make us think. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, I believe, if we are honest and feel that we are a people's representative, it can only be a decision: to accept this request. It is not a question of having no cooperation in Europe. It is not a question of working together economically. It is not about maintaining peace. It is a question of whether the further permanent erodement of our own rights, and thus the further erodement of Austrian democracy and the transfer of competences to another level, in which we put just 2% or 2.5% of Members' votes, whether this exodus, this thinning of our democracy in relation to 1:50, is desired to a fiftieth of our democracy and is still carried by the people. That is why I am looking for a clear yes – even if it is against the party line, which, according to Mr Scherak, is not available anyway – to our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18264	Mrs Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18285	Thank you, Mr President. – First of all: Mr Hübner! This item on the agenda is already about “the EU’s desire to leave the country”, which is primarily what we are negotiating. [[Abg. Hübner:... vote!]] The vote you want goes in the direction of a People's Survey, which is right, but that is not the subject of negotiations directly, which is just an unselfish request. [[Abg. Stefan: Negotiating item is a report!]] However, if you believe that everything that is being negotiated and finally decided in the EU must be voted upon in the EU, then you are subject to error and confusion between direct democracy and representative democracy. Then: As you rightly said, the Austrians have opted for the EU in 1994 and thus also for the necessary legislation, which sometimes leads to things that we do not always agree with. But that's how it's in a democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Berlakovich: Exactly!]] As has been said, we are also dissatisfied with the EU in many respects, as are the proponents and the proponents of popular desire. Some have been mentioned here. I would just like to say: The TTIP negotiations are not necessarily according to our taste. Also, this market-economy competitive thinking, which takes precedence over every social policy, is not on our policy, nor is it the transaction taxes. Yes, and now – everyone and everyone has mentioned it – refugee issues and refugee policy. There is no need for cooperation, no question at all. But that's why everything is going to throw away, run away and get out, that's certainly not a recipe. It is kind of naïve to assume that a small country like Austria can somehow still claim itself in international competition – and I mean not only the economic but also all the questions that have come to us – without cooperation. [[Abg. Strache: Switzerland is doing quite well!]] Mr Strache, we have to deal with a world in which cultural identities are gradually mixing. This certainly has to do with the digital media and with traffic possibilities. But that's the way it is. And a return in the sense of a national isolation, we can't, we can't do that anymore! That's not a solution. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== At best, they lead to isolation like in North Korea, and we certainly do not want to. We must, of course, consider in foreign policy together with the other countries: What would we do about the Ukraine conflict? Would we be acting against Russia as individual states? The Russians are interested in the fact that there is no EU that together makes policy against its interests. This is the one, the security policy: How can we proceed without European cooperation against organised crime? How can we at least reduce the monopoly of large companies and corporations? [[Abg. Stefan: The opposite happens!]] How, for example, can we better control and control pollution together with air pollution if we do not cooperate transnationally? Such tasks require: More commitment in the European Union, and no less, and no less, especially because the national states are always looking for their advantages in the EU and picking out the raisins. That is the problem of the European Union. This is precisely the problem of national thinking, for example, if – as I am not just taking refugee policy – Austria is not in a position in environmental policy to comply with the standards that are actually excellently set out by the EU, there is a lot to be done in all areas: Emissions Directives, Waste Directives, Biocidal Directives, if you are allowed to use the word ‘Directives’ again in this context. Austria is not even able to comply with the European directives and is advocating itself to be an environmental country. If Austria is stingy in dozens of these regulations, that means nothing but: The EU tells us where it should go, but we take care of our own advantages, we pick out the raisins, and we would not have the environmental laws for a long time if the EU did not need us to do so. All in all, one can conclude: It is egoism and national thinking that ultimately affects the European Union with all the mistakes that we also criticize. We want a stronger, a more transnational, a supranational European Union, and everything that works against it has little future in our eyes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18385	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18406	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are treating the EU's people's desire to leave. A popular desire, for which more than 261,000 people, namely 261 157 people, have taken the way to the community to express their mood, what they feel, that is, their EU scepticism. I say these people are democrats, they are also living democracy, and they want to move on to politics what they see in their environment. We here, in Parliament as so-called representatives of the people, have the duty to take seriously what the people outside want, what they feel. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] For some colleagues it is this way: Well, just 4 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! The conditions under which this popular desire was expressed were extremely bad. There was no lobby on the part of the media, there was no reporting. On the contrary, this popular desire was more or less silenced by the media. All the greater is the success that this organization has achieved, so from my point of view you deserve quite warm congratulation and a thank you for your commitment. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the lights should shine orange, that is, the mood in the population is more than critical of the EU, and that is right! In recent weeks and months, we have always pushed the whole refugee problem towards the EU: The EU will find a solution. The EU will strengthen external borders. The EU will see that not so many refugees are coming. The EU will hold withdrawal negotiations with the countries that we can actually bring back those people we can move back to the countries. All of this was promised to us. I ask you: What of these promises has actually occurred? – Nothing at all, only the pressure of the population increased from week to week, day to day, so that the government now in its helplessness and the powerlessness of the EU, because the EU does not do anything, has gone to set ceilings. Here, too, my critical consideration: Uppers yes, uppers of the feasible. We have already reached the limit of what we can accept from refugees. But the upper limit, in turn, is just a game of calm for the population up to the presidential election. At the latest, if you have successfully left the media outside, the population has calmed down, it will be recognized that this ceiling cannot be maintained because it does not have any legal framework that would actually contribute to it. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, in 1994 a vote on accession to the European Union took place, and since 1994 has done a great deal. At that time the population was promised, the schilling will remain, the banking secret will remain, the neutrality will remain and much more. And today? – Today we have broken all these promises. It must not be surprising if people who have already had a critical eye on this EU accession at the time stand up and say: We want to have evaluated this, we would like to know where our rights as Austrian have remained. - Don't we need action? I see this very, very positive, because only about a popular desire, about a popular survey can you put pressure on the EU as David Cameron does. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] That is, if we want to do Austria a good thing if we want to strengthen Austria and our negotiating position, we will ensure that this issue of EU – circumcision of our rights, situation in general – is discussed more and more that we are working together to find solutions and conduct a popular survey at the end of the day. We will, of course, agree with the request of the FPÖ by the Stronach team.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18472	I call Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18494	Those who are interested in the fact that there is something like a European project, of course, must also be prepared to deal critically with this project and with the European Union. I believe that changing processes within the EU are more targeted or feasible than being outside the European Union. Of course, you also have to say what you want to change or what you want to criticize. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Stefan.]] I'd like to go ahead and say, I am against a central state, I am against the fact that there are transnational structures, as one of the previous speakers has said. I believe that such a thing as a national cultural identity must be preserved. I am in favour of a certain degree of unity in this diversity. It once said to Mr. Juncker when he was in the house: I am from South Luxembourg, and I want to continue to stay in South Luxembourg, but I still become a European project and ultimately a European Union. Some things went wrong. For example, today’s “Handelsblatt” is entitled: Fear of Schengen. The economy fears an end to the free movement of goods – quote. It can be seen that Schengen was primarily the idea of eliminating national borders on the free movement of goods and on free movement of workers, but it seems that at that time too little thought is being given to the security aspect, when it is said that the European Union must also be able to secure the external borders. That's on the agenda now. And that's going to be something you'll probably have to solve now. The second is the social and cultural gap, which has been reinforced by a philosophy of accession, in which even ten countries have joined at once – I have already said this here: too quickly, too much – the social gap has not been reduced. This also means that those who now want to come to the European Union as refugees, of course, are more interested in the areas of prosperity within the European Union and want to be there than where the wealth zones are not so marked. But of course this also depends on the fact that there is this gap. As far as the European Union – NATO opposition is concerned, I am not at all a follower of NATO's circular policy towards Moscow and Russia, I think this is completely missing. I believe that it is more important to try to ensure that there is real cooperation between the European Union and Russia, especially economic cooperation, and not just political cooperation. This has a peace-making component, but it also has a component that ultimately makes us more effective in the globalized debate with other major economic spaces, whether these are the USA, China or other areas. What I see as very critical is the influence of the USA, which is the alliance partners, but at the same time is interested in the fact that the European Union is not always very uniform and does not become such a political and economic power factor; at least it looks so in certain ways. I also sometimes feel that in the Commission, but not only in the Commission, there is often too little fingertips. On the one hand, there is the demand – also from us – for the expansion of democracy and at the same time the lobbyism culture and also incomprehensible measures. If, for example, it is now being discussed that the visa requirement for Georgia, Ukraine and Turkey is lifted, I wonder, because of the situation in which the European Union is currently with the millions of unemployed, with the economic problems, but also the problems arising from the refugee movements, as one can now think about visa exemptions. I understand how to do that. Of course, the contribution of the 25 countries to dealing with these movements of refugees – or some of them migration – is an end of course to criticise. It cannot be that three countries fulfil human rights and 25 do not. I mean, what kind of value is that? I think that this is rightly criticized all the time. I'll come to the last point. I have, of course, looked at the request of the liberals in accordance with my duty. Your speaker, who wrote this, will have laughed badly when he wrote the text, for the following reason: You write, let's do a popular poll before the referendum. But the text does not answer the question of what the position of the FPÖ is, does the case that a popular survey is coming. Is the FPÖ in favour of leaving the European Union? Or is it because you're inside, or doesn't she say anything, does it break great silence? – I think I'm going to meet the 250 000 once and say, okay, you want a little direct democracy, that's all right. [[Abg. Hübner: This has nothing to look for in the application!]] You trust that this doesn't find a majority in there, but you'd look quite three, you'd lose the laugh if you let the nail sample you. [[Abg. Strache: You could convince us positively!]] But because Now you're just so smarter: What would be your position then, put the case, then that would really be? Make an intermediate call so I can answer it! But You're not saying anything right now. [[Abg. We should take the majority of the population seriously!]] – But what is your opinion? [[Abg. Yeah, right!]] - Well, what now? Are you staying inside or leaving? - It's been too long. [[Abg. Strache: Our opinion is that, of course, it can be a consequence that we also understand, because the people are right!]] Say it shorter. [[Abg. Strache: Without popular vote, this is a reason for departure!]] The audience's already turned off. Now he's turning up again. Again: What really is? No, no, I just want to take you seriously. [[Abg. You should take the people seriously!]] What do you say? What's your opinion? [[Abg. Strache: The people question is our opinion!]] – You have to tell the club expert not to write something like this again, because that then leads to situations in which you are in the defensive and I am in the offensive. I like it. But is that what you like? [[Abg. Strache: The people are always right, Mr. Cap! The questioning of the people is always positive!]] - Well, I'm just saying it. [[Abg. Street: The Sovereign is always right!]] - So for the next time.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18660	Mrs Mag. Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18681	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for the EU's request to leave the European Union is that Austria has left the European Union for economic, political and legal reasons. Professor Griller has very direct these reasons in the Constitutional Committee, and one must also say that there is little charm, as a white nonsense, and has then been addressed in detail. For reasons of time, I only take out one of the arguments mentioned in the popular desire, namely that instead of an upturn, Austria's enormous downward development in almost all areas should have come. Ladies and gentlemen! The exact opposite is the case. Like no other country in Europe, Austria has used its opportunities as an EU member and has benefited from more stability, economic power and jobs. Rising exports, direct investment and research cooperation play a central role in this. Two thirds of our wealth depends on exports, and 80 percent of Austrian exports go to Europe. Especially as an export-oriented country, we are of course benefiting from the common economic strength of Europe. Our life model, which combines economic strength, social responsibility and environmental sustainability, needs a secure future. The best guarantee for this is the innovative power of Europe. The more Europe focuses on science, research and innovation, the better. In order for Austria to be able to make better use of its opportunities as part of Europe in the future, however, we need to work constructively towards the further development of Europe. The development of Europe is far from complete. We do not need to rebuild Europe, but to make it better, at least we are also guilty of the 261 000 signatorys of the popular desire, who thus expressed their criticism of the state of the European Union. If I am talking about developing Europe, making Europe better, then this is the exact opposite of leaving Europe from the EU. I am opposed to giving up all that we have achieved with and in Europe and, so to speak, reversing our EU membership. What we need is not a step backwards, but progress. And this progress is a better Europe. For me, a better Europe is a strong Europe in the world, a democratic Europe, a responsible Europe and a secure Europe. This is our future, and not an EU exit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18718	I call Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18740	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The European family has already experienced better times, no question at all. But now to stand here and say that everything is bad, I think I'm massively exaggerating. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] To put yourself here and to talk about what to do in the In the past 20 years, Austria has not brought anything – that is simply not true! Mrs Steßl, the Secretary of State, has previously outlined it beautifully, and many Members of my group have outlined it beautifully: The EU accession has brought prosperity and growth to Austria, because our exports alone have tripled since 1994. These are the hard numbers, these are the facts, you can't pass them. We should all not forget why the EU actually came about, then, sixty years ago! She was a European peace project. At the time, the European Economic Community was a small but strong family – and this family bracket is a very beautiful metaphor for me regarding the EU. The establishment of this European family, of course, had political objectives at that time, namely to ensure peace and freedom for all European peoples, to unite them all in a Union and to prevent Germany and France from ever fighting each other again – in a common Europe without borders, without obstacles to people and goods. When Austria became a member of this family, we experienced a very stormy economic development. I'm just saying, Tag Eastern Europe. But the family has grown fast, richer and poorer relatives have come together. This, of course, has led to strong cohesion on the one hand. However, it has also led to disagreements in some areas. In the past, we Europeans have experienced scurrying demands on cucumbers, light bulbs and tooth plugs – this does not deny anyone. We have seen, as in the past, now, with the challenge of the current refugee crisis, blatant weaknesses. Nevertheless, yesterday Austria launched one of the sharpest asylum laws that will help to deal with this refugee crisis. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to speak nicely here. The authority of the European family of states has been damaged within the last few weeks and months. That is why it is so important for Europe to come back together again, to be closed, and for the last sad family image to be refreshed again, because the image is certainly better than it is currently being mediaised. In a family, it's not always perfect, we know. There may very often be different opinions, but we have heard it today: You have to make compromises. Each of us knows that. A family is also a place where you are not alone. One can decide on the common path. One is heard and respected. One thing is certainly not a solution for Austria, ladies and gentlemen: A withdrawal from the European Union is not an option for Austria. An isolation is not an option for Austria, and anyone who doubts it, I would like to give a book along the way. It comes from the spring of Hugo Portisch, one of Austria’s most important journalists, and is entitled “What’s Now”. He asks the question: “Is Europe still to be saved?” The findings of Hugo Portisch are as follows: Yes, you just have to want it and do it! I don't think there's anything to add to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18812	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18833	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! EU withdrawals: More than 261,000 people have signed this popular desire. It landed in the middle of all popular desires. If one considers, Madam State Secretary, that it has not been applied at all, then this is a great event for which I can very much thank the organizers. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am currently comparing the EU with a severely ill person prescribed by the doctor for cough juice, although this one knows very well that the patient would urgently need a different treatment of severe illness in order to get back to health. The state of the EU is also a serious problem. The painful consequences of EU membership are also felt for each individual citizen: Loss of democracy, social reduction, the gradual task of neutrality, the loss of schilling in favour of the Marod currency, and – this is particularly painful, ladies and gentlemen, – massive expropriation of money and cold expropriation of popular wealth, transit wave, limitless crime – we have heard today – demise our own legislation, mass immigration, asylum chaos. In this development, a free, independent and truly neutral state, a free, independent and neutral Austria would be the command of the hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18870	The next speaker is Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18891	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! On the topic of EU withdrawals: For Austria, 20 years ago, it was the highest bid to be included in the EU. A referendum gave green light to this. In the then accession negotiations, accession was more important than the resulting disadvantages. Over the period of 20 years, the key data of an EU membership have changed several times to the detriment of Austria. As one of a few Member States, we are a so-called net payer, and our membership has developed into a financial barrel without soil, i.e., payment commitments limits due to various individual agreements in their infinancing. Words Forwarded Financial problems in the majority of southern Member States make the population more vulnerable, are in fact the problem of their marode banking systems. However, there is no evidence to be found in the long-term reorganisations, so that further burdens on the State budget and hence on the taxpayer are incurred. The benefits of this EU system are undisputed large corporations and banks, whose tax revenues from the small and medium-sized economy are to be considered to be small. The EU's development now includes East States with preferred membership criteria. These Eastern States are increasingly refusing to implement Commission decisions, and this is at the expense of the Euroregion. With regard to the common position Currency: She's become a teuro. In fact, it can be assumed that the European Union is increasingly being set apart from America. As an example, sanctions against Russia must be addressed. The benefit of these sanctions is America with an export increase of around 10 percent to Russia. This is compared with an export loss of about 6 percent of Austrian goods. The financial compensation provided by the EU for agriculture is no more than a drop on the hot stone. After long-term negotiations behind closed doors, the signatures of the Free Trade Agreements are in the house, including those to the detriment of the domestic economy and our citizens. An overall failure is to blame the EU on refugee issues. The EU-wide distribution of 160 000 refugees or asylum seekers has failed. The refugee problem does not decrease significantly during the winter months, but the problem of accommodation is getting worse. In contrast to the Federal Republic of Germany, Austria is affected by a stable high level of unemployment, and improvement is not in sight. Finally, it should be noted that the EU system is no longer eligible for funding, so that further problems, in particular the middle class of the domestic population, can be avoided. Another word about the refugee situation: The Multikulti system is described as a failure. Security and our culture, especially the equality of women, are essential! Sexual assaults are unconditional! A foreigner who has become a criminal, no matter where they come from, has lost their right to go to their home country without exception! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18946	Next, Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e18968	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! First, I would like to express respect and recognition to the initiators of popular desire for an initiative – I know how much work and effort there is behind it. I would particularly like to address your point, which sees a reason for Austria leaving the European Union in terms of massive deterioration in the environment. I can understand this concern. In fact, Austria's environmental policy, climate protection, air quality, citizens' participation in the field is falling, or is in need of resurgence. I just think that the conclusion I draw from it is another one. In fact, it is – and this must also be taken into account – that we in Austria, for example, have not had an independent Ministry of the Environment since 2000. Unfortunately, it is not the case that Austria is fighting for stricter environmental standards and the EU is not allowing them to do so, but rather: Austria does not meet the standards set by the EU. Austria is sparse in many areas, has pending infringement procedures, for example on the issue of the involvement of its neighbours. Austria is also currently slowing down many developments at EU level, for example when it comes to the interest of air quality. High air quality standards are needed across the EU to ensure air quality in Austria. Austria is slowing down the EU rules in this regard. I can also report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection recently: If initiatives are decided, then because the EU says: But now really is fire on the roof, and we have to go! Today, it is likely that the Energy Infrastructure Act will be adopted, which we Greens have had to fight to ensure that European law standards are complied with. ÖVP and SPÖ chose a softer variant. I should also like to say: We have environmental problems that are too big for a single country. I am sure that if the European Union had not taken a close stand at the Paris climate conference, this agreement would not have been reached. I think what we have to do is: consistently implement directives in Austria, set high standards and also use us in the European Union for good environmental standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19019	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 997 of the Supplements and Appendices 1, 2 and 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the holding of a People's Survey. [[Abg. Strache: Now you could surprise us!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[Abg. Strache: Now I'm disappointed!]] [[14:13:23]] 2. Paragraph 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on Government Conversion
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19077	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19107	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Rudolf Hundstorfer, who has been the Social Minister of our Republic for more than seven years. He has this office in an excellent way with quiet hand and firm commitment led at a time when the economic crisis was in demand of initiative and consequence. Experience, commitment, expertise and social compensation have awarded his work as a Minister of Social Affairs. Since the economic and financial crisis in 2008, it has become a central task with the training guarantee to counter short-time work. For this we today envy other countries and see us as a model. I would particularly like to thank Rudi Hundstorfer for his more than seven years' work in the Federal Government. [[General condolences.]] In the presentation and presentation it is not necessary to introduce you to Federal Minister Alois Stöger as someone who is coming new because you have already seen in his previous work as infrastructure minister: It is a politician who is primarily responsible for the work of the field, who is willing to cooperate and who is looking everywhere for solutions. This is essential in a field such as work, social protection and consumer protection. We do not need any social contrasts – as we can see in Europe and in many other countries – that go into labour struggles that result in uncertainty that contrasts with the common position. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – We always need someone who is professionally competent and balanced, always in search of solutions and consistently in implementation. I wish Federal Minister Alois Stöger for the task in the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection all the necessary good. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I also ask you for support for Gerald Klug, who, with his change to the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, takes over a task that is not quite easy in economic times – because the financial and economic crisis is only overcome when unemployment falls when investment increases and the political climate in the country is such that it offers investment incentives. Here, research and development, here the infrastructure, the road, the rail, much of what is located in the Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, is a very important task. She is now in the hands of an experienced man, who has already shown in his activity that he places common ground in the context of social partnership, cooperation and cooperation. I would like to congratulate Gerald Klug on his new task and ask for your support. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have already had the opportunity to highlight here in Parliament the man I would like to introduce to you today: Hans Peter Doskozil. He has shown, in one of the most difficult situations of our Republic, that he employs his house mind, heart and humanity, but also his sense of order, when everything runs contrary, and overcomes it with calmness, strength and success. Hans Peter Doskozil worked as a crisis manager, as a communicator, as a police chief in the Burgenland border during the crisis situation in the summer of the previous year. He has proved that he leaves no one in need of food, he has proved that he does not let anyone hang who needs medical care, and as an expert in the executive, he knows very well about the tasks of border security, to which we have committed ourselves and which will be implemented in this way. must be able to say: We know who's coming to the country. This is a task which is probably one of the most difficult at the moment. He is a man with experience who has proved that – as Helmut Schmidt once said – he can maintain peace and be consistent. Hans Peter Doskozil has these characteristics. I wish him all the right in his task at the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport and I also ask you to support him here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19211	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement and may now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19232	Federal Chancellor! Estimated government colleagues, in particular those who, already proven, will now be active in new functions. Dear Hans Peter Doskozil! Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the most important issues that are currently facing us towards the future, then the question of competitiveness is certainly a very important one, as far as the economic sector is concerned: How do we develop our location? What are we doing? In this regard, we all know that we will not win the future in wage competition with other Asian or other countries, but only if we force the knowledge society. For the implementation of the knowledge society, it is crucial how we are equipped in the field of research and development, but above all in the area of infrastructure. This is a very, very important key task to be done here – including what the government is about to do. Further: Why are we doing this constant innovation and competition orientation? – To succeed, it is clear, but above all to ensure jobs and our social systems – health, labour market, pensions. We have the challenge that we have a certain economic growth, in my view also the challenge of making the systems viable and secure in economically difficult times. That is why the problem and the task of covering the labour market, the pension sector, the fields of general care is a very, very important area. Then I come to the third point, which actually correlates with the two others: What is the most touching of our society at the moment, what are most future fears associated with – thematically and even with the concerns of the Austrians? – That’s the refugee question, we all know that. In this context, it is also necessary to take the right steps at government level, but not only there, also in society, and I know that this is a difficult matter. It is not only about border management – a very, very important question is also who comes to us, who is there, and that he is also properly integrated when he receives asylum accordingly; you see the correlation to the labour market again – but it is above all also about that we ad infinitum, without borders, cannot continue this access. I would like to invite you to carry out a thought experiment following a statement by Professor Nowak yesterday in the “Time in Picture 2”. He said that everyone has the right to carry out his asylum procedure in Austria, he must not be rejected at the border. Ladies and gentlemen, when you think about this, and there are really 12 million people coming to us in the next few years, as was potentially presented now: Do we then deal with 12 million asylum applications? Do we have the capacities? Can we really “create” this – under quotation marks? I believe that this is exactly the point that is also mentioned in the Human Rights Convention, which is the question: What about the internal circumstances, the possibilities of internal security, financing, but also integration? That is why it is very important that we also have governmental bodies in this area, which are acting responsibly and forward-looking in combination with all the others, including the national offices. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have described three very important areas of the future, and you see, organizations or governments always act by people. You see here also three ministers who will carry out this activity. From my point of view, as a representative of the coalition partner, I wish all three ministers a good fulfillment, a partnership achievement developed with us – because many things also go thematically to other areas – and the realization of the really difficult tasks in a positive and forward-looking form. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The first thing I can do is to defend, which has so far been the responsibility of Minister Klug. [[Abg. Darmann: Self-defense!]] The defense was forced into a defensive role in time – in terms of heavy weapons and military reform. In the future, he is in a different role. I give only two keywords: Industry 4.0 – the digitization of production, the creation of value, the services – and the Internet of Things, which is a future-oriented and a competence-based task in the department, as well as broadband installation throughout Austria. This too will decide on the first point I have been talking about. I wish Minister Klug good in his active role! Second point in the context, second amendment: We have now had a total of seven government reforms, three of which have included Alois Stöger. So the fixed, he is obviously the man for everything, is somehow not only due to a smooth formulation during one of our club classes, but is of course already a fact, which is to be found which certainly speaks for the competence of Minister Stöger. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But what we must see from the task side: We have a development in the labour market and we cannot shut down. A few years ago, we have had months when we have had a positive development, and we have had a negative development for months now. Now I know that depends on the world economy and this, of course, also depends on other developments – we have imported unemployment – but it is clear, of course, that now, for example, the corridor board and the deposits there are exactly the result that some are going to unemployment rather than to the corridor board when they are planning it. So in both areas – on the one hand, in order to safeguard the financial viability of the systems and on the other hand, to create employment – we have quite a need. – Good in the context! What is going on with the new government, Mr. Doskozil, I must say that I met him – at that time he was a police director in Burgenland – and I believe that even after recently getting to know him, it is possible to find out what his skills are. I also, like many others, have observed this: He's a careful manager, one who hears and works analyticalally. That is exactly what we can do – with a calm hand – in times like this, I think, very, very well need. Mr Doskozil, I also wish you all the best from our side! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is why the task of the future has already been adequately described. Last year, as far as government work is concerned, we actually had fine implementations: Tax reform, so that 5.2 billion moves, bonus malus system and other regulated, including wage-additional cost reduction, establishes an educational reform in the broad guidelines. – Actually, it was not very little, and in this context it is likely that we are developing one or another in the reform area, but, of course, we are solving the main problem. I think the most important thing is said. Let me conclude with one I almost forgot, but it was also important to me because I was so used to it over the last eight years, and it is now important for me to thank Rudi Hunttorfer. We have behaved very cooperatively, especially in terms of dealing with the labour market problems surrounding the economic crisis – the European Union has also noted this. Solutions such as short-time work were good solutions, but it is also clear in the context that we have, of course, moved all structural problems with this cover through economic measures for a number of years, which affects us here and there today. The crisis hardly noticed anyone in 2009, and now it has an impact on the structural area and, of course, there. In this context, it was important – and for this I thank Rudi Hundstorfer – that we have never personally attacked ourselves in technical questions or in ministerial competence, and this could also shape the way we deal with each other in other areas. For this and for his work I thank him and wish him all the best for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19295	We are going into the debate. I call Mr Klubobmann. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19341	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Yes, we will, of course, hear many praises and positive words from the government representatives today in the course of the reform of government. For them, self- praise is a prerequisite for this change that is taking place today, but I say: The best government reform – that is to say, honestly – would have consistently been the resignation of the entire government to ensure democratic re-elections according to all that has been done in recent times. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you take all the wrongs, then these are very, very many, and I say, unfortunately, there is an extension of suffering to be expected. That hurts and is something you have to address openly. Today, we have mentioned the economic capacity, the competitiveness, the possibilities we have in our responsibilities. There are many, many negative developments, especially in the field of economic conditions, which you have also been indebted to. Mr Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner, the Your party also concerns, when it comes to the competitiveness of our companies, the maximum tax burden, the increase in VAT, the KEST, in the case of registers and other matters. After good night! If you are not willing to compensate for the cold progression, you must not be surprised that this will worsen and will not get better. Since even on the question of modern international migration and one - since last year - uncontrolled mass immigration has failed completely, over a three-quarters of a year, there was no preparedness for a proposal for a solution after the other of the liberal opposition and we have always been strongly criticized for the legitimate warning and showed no ability to learn, unfortunately, there is nothing to be expected of God here for all the placebo decisions that have been taken. The ministers, who change here in the context of a personal rochade from one office – whether this is Minister Stöger or Minister Klug – both already somehow have a systematic failure in their previous government responsibility. We have experienced that there has not really been something going on, but they are then rewarded with new ministerial positions. And then there is one – especially with you, Mr. Klug – situational or post-elasticity. I think we're dealing with loud universal experts, who are of course excellent in every ministry. No, I believe that this does not give the office any good service, that it is quite unacceptable in the population and that this was not a good decision, in all the negative developments, but also in the devastation that is left there partly in one place or another. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I mention the Ministry of Defense as an example in which a shattering, a breakdown was the case. And now Minister Klug is transferred to the Ministry of Transport, according to the motto: Now he has the task of probably paralysing traffic in the future. I wonder what the goal will be. The federal army has already been paralysed by you. I say that it's not necessarily ideal, that's a rochade from one ministry to the next, that might make a painted cardboard lid just as good. I don't think that makes a good picture in public. And that there is simply chairrochades taking place, it also shows that the staff cover at SPÖ has apparently become a really thin one. That's gonna be quite obvious. There is also a new minister, who will of course be reassessed here, no question: Hans Peter Doskozil as new Minister of Defense. He has shown that he can act on the basis of the orders, based on the political decisions he has received – he can only act on the basis of the government decisions. That was so at the time! At the time, the government has set a failure, but the Doskozil cannot do so! If Chancellor Faymann and the government say: No, border controls must not exist, border controls must not exist, passport controls must not exist, registration must not exist, rejection of illegal immigrants must not exist, then it cannot be expected that Mr Doskozil in his then function would be contrary to that. Mr Doskozil managed what he had been commissioned to do, namely not to welcome passport checks, to welcome, to manage, to manage another state-owned tow organization, which then became active in transferring people towards the German border or even forced allocations in care facilities – through constitutional decision in the High House, against our FPÖ votes – towards the municipalities. - Yes, that's manage- I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Politically, it was not wise, it was politically irresponsible. Mr. Doskozil is not to blame, no. Werner Faymanna's chance to blame chancellors. No question: The main responsibility for this is that of the government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And of course one will have to assess whether the new Minister of Defence will then also make a change of course in the defence resort, namely in the direction where neutrality hopefully counts again, where the German army will not be further broken and broken down and where the defence capacity of our country will ultimately not be further broken. In addition, there is something positive: Minister of Social Affairs Hundstorfer goes to another level or tries to enter a different level – and resigns as Minister of Social Affairs. No question, he has certainly made a fair effort. There are many areas where there have also been fine, good discussions. He was certainly someone who has understood his business professionally, but in our opinion is also wrong in many things. And of course he also shared responsibility for our having the highest unemployment in Austria today. As many unemployed as never have, this is no reason to celebrate. Imported unemployment has been mentioned as a keyword: If one does not protect one's own labour force here in Austria, but forces imported unemployment, forces displacement processes, then it must not be surprising that this also leads to a further tension on the labour market. In the end, dog torfer also belongs to the group of those people who are always notable real-life objectors in relation to this immigration issue – and in some cases also worked with disinformation when it came to statistics. There has only recently been a presentation with the head of the AMS, which is also called the head, Mr. National Council President, in which information from refugees has been published, which has not even been reviewed. There you simply gave the information – without researching it without checking it – and then simply put it in the room that the refugees were all on average better trained than the Austrian population. It is unreasonable to do such things in the way. You have to say that, too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you have tried to deceive your own people. This is not a process that can be supported. I say that a lot has happened in recent years, which does not necessarily give cause for joy. And I don't see reason for optimism either, but an extension of suffering, as I have already mentioned today, if mainly equal faces, only now in a new position, will continue their activity. I think that if you honestly analyze this and also honestly analyze this government, then you have to say: Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, under your Chancellorship, it has gone downhill in all areas, and it has gone down enormously. Under no other chancellor before, this country was caused greater damage. No other chancellor before you has been wronged, even as regards neighboring relations, for example, when it comes to President Orbán, who has been insulted by you in an awkward way. The government debt has exploded compared to gross domestic product. We have experienced a public debt explosion, an explosion in unemployment rates, and economic growth has not been stimulated in the form of what it would have been necessary. Unfortunately, we are still on the road in the area of standstill. And I fear that this will not be better because appropriate measures have not been put in place in relation to a discharge. There has also been no genuinely serious reform under your Chancellorship. The tax burden has substantially increased. You will now say that was the largest tax reform of the Second Republic. - No, that's not true, it's a tariff shift, it's not a tax reduction. We will notice relatively quickly that the cold progression will re-eat all of this and, at the end of the day, will remain a higher burden and will continue to extortion the economy. You have lived a welcome policy – and you have a responsibility with this government – in which, in the end, all the burdens lie ahead of us today. They also have responsibility for the cost explosions, in addition to the security hazards, in addition to the question raised today, to ensure peace, security and order in Austria for their own population. This cannot be pushed to the EU's external border, where the State Treaty has long been broken and is not respected. You have a responsibility for that yourself! Here we would like to point out your responsibility and take responsibility accordingly. I think the most honest way would be to admit the mistakes, not to try to get along with placebo stories and to further deepen and expand the damage, but to be consistent and to say: Yes, we have made mistakes, the damage is here today, but we will let the Sovereign decide whether he wants to continue this policy or not and whether the sovereign of another policy wants to give strength to what is happening – in the negative sense – finally stop and finally protect the borders, close, secure economic relief, future ability, and finally strengthen the Sovereign – in the sense of a direct democracy that we want to enforce.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19475	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19496	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In contrast to the previously said, I see this relatively clearly: The task of the Austrian Federal Government, this Federal Government, is to work to respond to the challenges that arise – the great global, European and Austrian, the economic as well as the social and cultural challenges – and to do the best for our country under the given framework conditions. [[call to the FPÖ.]] It's not easy times to make politics. These are difficult times, and we have great challenges. But I believe that the path that has been taken in recent years has shown that Austria – the Austrian Federal Government and the majority in the Austrian Parliament – is also able to set exactly the right conclusions, reactions and measures to respond to these difficult times and great challenges. In this context, I should particularly like to thank the exodus Social Minister Rudolf Hundstorfer, who has proved in recent years – under these difficult conditions – that the issue of labour market and difficult challenges is not a marginal issue, but is also tried to respond with all possible possibilities. I thank him for everything he has done, but much more I wish him all the best for his future. I also assume that we will soon be able to welcome him back to the House. I hope that's on the 8th. It will be the case on July. Dear Rudi, good for your future! - No, I think he's a TV listener. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Is he here as a listener, or what?]] For government reform in concrete: The defence and sports resort is affected. With Hans Peter Doskozil there has been a minister there since yesterday, who has changed from a security device to politics. I wish Hans Peter, in this context, that he can not only maintain this pragmatic work on administrative solutions to major and difficult questions in politics, but also maintain them in politics, because very often, especially on difficult issues, the political discussion slips away from the issues of matter to the Polish and the Dwarves. And I believe that the difficult challenges of security policy, the refugee crisis and migration flows need a pragmatic, administrative and solution-oriented action. I hope that it will succeed in mastering and bringing it in the same way in the future. I am sure that this will be the case with your person, and I wish you all the best. This is also true for the reform of the German army, which cannot be completed, because the German army as a security institution of this republic must, of course, respond to the new international challenges, the neutrality challenges, the global crises, the cyber issues et cetera. Secondly, to the sports resort: In this context too, it must be said that the sport resort is about the reasonable mix of support for width and promotion for the top. The Austrian path – an excellent top-ranking sport and a well-informed wide sport – is what we need for the future, because the sports staff also make an essential contribution to the social cohesion of our society. The infrastructure resort, the BMVIT, is the resort where Gerald Klug will be the new minister and where the economic backbone of our Republic will be decided. It is not only an economic decision that we have in this country and how it is organized, but it is of fundamental economic policy, including security and security of supply. The discussion this morning has shown how important it is to also see that the interests of the state are taken into account. Whether it's rail, road, water, air or broadband, I think it's clear that the future orientation of our country, the future opportunities of our country, are just in this resort. The social resort – labour, social and consumer protection – is the social security centre of Alois Stöger. This is the area that is also responsible for ensuring that, in economically difficult times, in times of rising unemployment and rising problems throughout Europe in Austria, we have and have created a high level of social security, security and security for people. The same applies to pensions. The debate on pensions will be one that we will continue to hold intensively. It is also a question of ensuring safety in the system – the certainty that poverty in old age will not be included in Austria, the security of supply, the security that pensions are available for the current generation as well as for the next generations – is a very important point and that what is often spread here in wrong economic viewpoints is not allowed to take place in this area of uncertainty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The labour market, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, facing major challenges. We don't need to talk about the problems there. But we also know: Without the past and future policy of the Federal Government, problems in the Austrian labour market would be greater, even greater than they are now. Therefore, it remains to be seen that unemployed people receive unemployment support, but at the same time that an active labour market policy is being made, which also looks at employment, employment promotion and initiatives. We also know, however, that a basic condition for getting the labour market back in order is that there is economic growth. Therefore, in this context, the interplay between the infrastructure sector, where the issues of future economic opportunities lie, and the social sector is a very important point, because, as we know, we are finally getting back to the labour market problems only when economic growth is rising again throughout Europe. In this sense, one sees that the challenges are great, but also, I believe, the signal to the population is a good one, because we have recognised the challenges, but at the same time we are also working to shape the solutions and responses to these challenges in such a way that our country, Austria, and the people in our country, the Austrians, get the most out of Austria, so Austria is keeping its opportunities. This was ensured by the previous government and will certainly be ensured with the future government.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19556	Next, Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19598	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Andreas Khol, dear Rudi Hundstorfer, I wish you both all the best! And I would like you to be invited to the fishing celebration of Federal President Alexander Van der Bellen in a few months. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] – In old interconnectedness. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: I think he's independent?- Oh, my God!]] – That was a party-independent wish I expressed there. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Mr Lopatka.]] Now for government reform: Mr Bundeskanzler, every government reform is a chance, and that is – you and we all know it – probably your last chance. [[Call the FPÖ:Oye!]] The quality of a Federal Chancellor is also measured by how he uses his chances. Now I just turn left, look at the government bank and ask you one thing: [[The speaker briefly turned to the government bank]] What did you think about it?- Oh, my God! What did you think about it?- Oh, my God! The easiest I do with Minister Stöger. Minister Stöger is an excellent administrator in the area of administration. Manage health: Okay! Infrastructure management: That's what's been going on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] But is it really the task of the Social Ministry to manage the biggest questions in this Republic? [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Loacker.]] 1 million people in Austria live at the poverty line – and Stäger is sent to manage. [[Abg. Shit helmet: Go!]] The Court of Auditors tells us that in the last ten years, the lowest 10 per cent of male income recipients – not refugees – have lost 52 per cent of their gross income. Many women caught it even worse. And then you'll send an administrator and not one of the few politicians or one of the few politicians who say: Yes, a political change, a change of direction, a new policy is possible! Yes, Austria is rich and strong enough to combat poverty successfully! Yes, we are a rich state! Yes, we have good companies! Yes, we have qualified employees! Yeah, we're trying something new! The problem is not located outside the companies with workers, students and students. The problem is behind me and before you, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is the Austrian Federal Government, because if politics is not designed, then the problems cannot be solved. If we go from Stöger to another member of the government, then everything becomes clear. Mr Bundeskanzler, how could you come to the idea of putting the failed Minister of Defence at the head of the infrastructure?- Oh, my God! Yes, it is common for you that when a business advisor comes to you and you say that you need a board chairman for one of the best companies in Austria, and he says he has someone who has just built a huge bankruptcy and who is totally alone guilty of the bankruptcy, Chancellor Faymann then says: Yes, hurra, he's just been building a bankruptcy, well, that's the right one, we're taking from the Ministry of Defense, which he's been running down, and give it to him – still! – functioning Ministry of Infrastructure!Unknown term type: "%s".? What did Minister of Defense Klug do? - He managed a van. He has announced operations of the Austrian federal army from Syria to Ukraine – luckily, nothing has become out of it. He has – thank you again! – with three weeks delay a gulash cannon brought to the south Styrian border. But he didn't reform the military service, he didn't put the barracks in order, and he didn't do anything to end the tomb fight between the General Staff and the Cabinet – this contradiction and this contrast and this inner cold war in the Ministry of Defense have worsened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] And the worst thing was that he was not able to work together with the Minister of the Interior, from the refugee crisis to the internal security and the fight against crime. Yes and now – if he can't even manage a service car – let him go to the ÖBB?- Oh, my God! Federal Chancellor, I don't understand you. How are people supposed to understand that the minister who has failed the most dramatic should now be responsible for the future, as the vice chancellor rightly says?- Oh, my God! Then the new Minister of Defence: He earned advance ladyberries on the Burgen border. I met him there myself and saw what he was doing, namely excellent, highly competent and very soothing work in a very heated situation. And now he leaves his ticket as Minister of Defense and proposes to send presenters to the border. [[Abg. Fekter: That's what the Niessl told him!]] Significantly, the police say they send their most qualified officials and do not want police students and police students. And with us, the most qualified soldiers in barracks are in a sad state, and you want to send those present to the border and want to extend a failed military service – about which we would have to speak with popular vote for a second time – after a devastating reform balance? [[Abg. Fekter: But hello!]] I can't do that! [[Mr Strache and Mr Rädler.]] I don't know who recommended it to you; the general staff can't have been. Mr. Minister of Defense, I am personally sorry to have wished you a completely different start because of what you did as a senior police officer at the Nickelsdorf border, including us, but that was a wrong start, that was a belly spot, that was nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to think slowly about how this should continue. This kind of government is not reasonable to the Republic. We will be experiencing even greater crises. Nothing indicates that the world economy and the major European crises, from the refugee crisis to the financial crisis, are improving by themselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] We need an effective federal government. We have an inadequate infrastructure minister, we have a obviously flawed new defence minister and we have a social minister who may manage but probably not shape the future. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is very rude!]] But above all, we have a German chancellor, who today signals us one thing, namely that this federal government has no future and probably has played its last chance. What you have notified here, Mr Bundeskanzler, is a political compensation. If you continue this way, the political bankruptcy will follow. Then we talk about something else, namely a redesign of the political conditions in Austria. And in that I see the only chance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19766	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Lopatka. Mr. Klubobmann, are you planning to keep those 5 minutes in about? [[Abg. Lopatka: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Yes!]] – Thank you very much for the information. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19803	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The two previous greetings were marked by wishful thinking, I return to reality and very warmly welcome the President of the National Council, Andreas Khol, here in the House. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bitch.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Well, the other one will decide the voters, whoever we are in any function on the 8th. Thank you, Mr Pilz. I am already with you, because in the meantime you are already very proud on the road and have predicted the end of the government many times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pillow.]] We will work for this Republic until 2018. [[Abg. Pilz: (the arms stretching in the height of a defense) No!]] – We will see about your suffering and if you are back when you wanted to rotate ten or 20 years ago. This government works well and will also get the confidence of voters again in 2018, colleague Pilz, because the decisive for politics, ladies and gentlemen, are strong personalities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. This quote has to be taken up!]] Such personalities need to implement this federal government, which, if something is agreed, will also implement it. The trigger for this government transformation was, of course, the previous Social Minister. And our vice chancellor has already addressed Alois Stöger, who will now take over this place. If he now looks at what inheritance he takes over, he can probably only say: A hard game via me! I suppose it's a hard game for him, because there are important areas in a state where you can't say that we can be satisfied with it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Darmann and Mr Strache]] As far as the cost explosion in the case of minimum security is concerned, there is clearly an urgent need for reform! All international experts tell us about our pension situation: urgent need for reform! And we also need to do something together in terms of the situation on the labour market – the vice chancellor has already mentioned it – because there is also an urgent need for reform. Then there is the big issue that did not concern us 10, 20 years ago, but that now covers everything else, namely the refugee situation, the wave of migration. This would be one of the biggest challenges for any federal government that would be responsible in Austria, and of course it is also for this federal government. The new Minister of Defence also has a key role to play in this. Hans Peter Doskozil is new in politics. Before being praised, he has already made a statement in a certain direction, which is unusual, but where I must say: I see the signals I heard from him as positive. I think it is positive if you say, Minister of Defence, that you want to support the Minister of the Interior when it comes to effective border protection, and you want to support the Minister of the Interior when it comes to deportations. Yes, we need close cooperation between you and the Minister of the Interior in order to implement what the asylum summit did last week, namely, the ceilings. People expect what Mayor Häupl said today, according to Kurier: The 37 501. won't get asylum with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's what it's all about! This is well established, and now it has to be implemented, with the support of the Minister for Defence. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He sees this differently!]] Of course, the Minister of Social Affairs is directly concerned with this wave of refugees. The situation in the case of minimum security was quite different from the situation we introduced. By the way, at the time Austria was less secure than we already have in Vienna, and tens of thousands will be added. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] We need a new order, we need a lid, we need a social minister who comes to a solution with the countries. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And no social reduction!]] [[Abg. Schieder: Minister for Social Degradation!]] He will have our full support when he goes the way that Upper Austria has already marked, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] We need to take out financially vulnerable people from this Article 15a agreement. [[New call of the abg. Schwentner.]] We need more benefits in kind than in cash. We need the close of the federal government's shoulders with the countries, otherwise we will still be crossing the billions of minimum security expenditure this year, because we will not be able to achieve this in the long run. That is why I say to you: There are many tasks waiting for the new members of the government, and when it comes to implementing this jointly, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will, of course, contribute to the joint implementation of this resolution in the case of unpopular measures which are necessary. It is a difficult situation, but if the ministers are brave enough, we will make it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19954	I am now interrupting the debate on item 2 of the agenda. [[15:00:49]] Short debate on the reply to the question 7035/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e19975	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 7035/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker to state his reasons. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20012	Madam President, I have seen you take over the presidency right now! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Appreciate viewers at the gallery! The reason for the short debate is the question of early retirement at the post office, which is why I join the challenges that Mr Klubobmann Lopatka mentioned earlier, among other things in the pension system. The post has announced that she wants to put employees more into retirement at the age of 50 years. The announcement of this project alone is a prelude to taxpayers and, in particular, to those who are in normal, privately insured service conditions, because what is going on here means that the post costs the public – the taxpayers – their staff costs. This announcement by Österreichische Post AG also fits very well in the picture of what we have heard from UniCredit Bank Austria AG in the last few days: namely, that there is also an attempt to transfer the pension obligations which Bank Austria has to the pension insurance institution and thus also the general public – the insured – to the insured. Legally, of course, this is quite different. Become purely legal You tell me, Minister Schelling, that these two are totally different pairs of shoes. This is true, of course, but the thinking underlying these two processes – in Austrian Post AG on the one hand and in Bank Austria on the other – is the same: They're getting rid of their commitments. It is a matter of getting rid of its costs and simply changing it over to the taxpayer or to the Community of insured persons. What is still a difference between Bank Austria and Austrian Post AG is that: They also have very different means of influence at the post office – as majority owners via the ÖBIB – and would be different from the Bank Austria. These restructurings, which Austrian Post AG argues with in response to the request, are based on tax payment costs. Yes, like any other institution that employs officials, the post can act in accordance with the rules of civil service law, but these rules of civil service law must also be applied in accordance with the law and must be interpreted in accordance with the law and not according to the employer's wishes. In the meantime, well 20 findings of the Federal Administrative Court have been made, in which employees of the Post have successfully resisted retirement. But these are only the 20 who have actively resisted. This suggests a dark number of other people who would have liked to work on it, but who did not take the right course to continue working in a company in which they no longer want to have it. It turns out to me, Minister, that you do not comply with your supervisory duty to the extent that I would like it to be and how it would have been worth the taxpayers if the post seemed to be done by the employees who are too expensive for them and who would rather not have them in the house anymore, I have gained the impression from the question answer – in which you took over texts from Austrian Post AG – that the post is trying to bring you, Mr. Minister, and the Members on the nose. The only thing you know, and what we know now because of the answer to the question is how much the whole spectacle costs: 90 million €. This costs us these retired officials. But what we don't know is whether this has all been done with right things. We also know that there has been an increase in such retirement shifts: within eight years by 250 per cent; and this is so clearly argued that one could get bad. Austria's Post AG argues that the average age of employees is the same, and this average age has obviously led to a doubling of retirement pensions from 2008 to 2009. It doesn't make sense. But I can tell you what makes sense: Until 2008, such retirement retiring required the approval of the Ministry of Finance. From 2009 onwards, this agreement by the Ministry of Finance has no longer been needed, and Schwepps, the control mechanism is gone, and retirement changes are taking place in the sky – at the expense of taxpayers. Now there is a loss of control of your ministry, and what is the consequence? – The post allows a fairy tale hour in this request response, and your staff in the ministry press the Forward key and send it to me as a request answer. That can't be serious to her unless you're quite satisfied with the situation and say: My name is rabbit and details I would rather not know!, because in the case of the strain- the questions, where it is about, for example, the post of the social plan has been done, you take back far back in the answer to the question. The post argues: There are so many retirement changes because we are restructuring and because a reference to alternative jobs is not possible. Then I wonder why this can be the case at all. Why, then, are there such provisions that allow such retirement schemes? – If you look at the ASVG insured persons today – in which there is the principle of rehabilitation before retirement – then you can see: Officials shall be excluded from this scheme. And if a person believes in a normally insured service relationship that he is inability or invalid, then there is a complicated procedure and then he must be referred to all possible activities on the Austrian labour market. Only: This broad reference possibility does not exist among officials, who can only be transferred within their department. Yes, then the post quickly comes to the conclusion: We're putting the rest! The ÖVP is the chief obstacle to the harmonisation of pension rights, including civil servants. That's what you need to take on your cap over there; you always protect your civil servants' clients. [[towards ÖVP]] Of course, the posters are not primarily yours, but the officials as a whole are very well. I don't like it when you stand out and ask for a pension reform in the early days and bring the sheep into the dry in the evening, your own black sheep. The pension system is scrapping, and the ÖVP makes a “worthy” contribution to this. Such special arrangements belong to the scrapyard. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Tosser: Congratulations!]] – Mr Rädler, you are cordially invited to praise. Austrian Post AG is also one of the strongest dividend titles on the Vienna Stock Exchange. Now I already know that these dividends benefit the majority owner of the government to a good, but there is a significant share of shareholders who are not the public hand. Now I'm wondering, How does the taxpayer get the pension costs out of the post office? – This writes a higher profit, gives out a higher dividend, and the small taxpayer now finances the fat dividend to the postal shareholders. - That's how it works! I'm basically a fan of stock investment. I think this is correct, but not with the shield of the taxpayers in the back. This is how privatization cannot work! That's how private investment can't work! There the principles of the market economy have been removed, and that is why this does not work. [[Abg. Wheeler: Start with yourself! You've secured your right of return in the bank! This is private business?]] . I have this right of return because your ÖVP party colleagues otherwise threw me out, I am telling you now, Mr Rädler. I can explain it to you in detail afterwards. - Yes! Mr Minister, it would be your job in the post to protect taxpayers, and I do not see this task fulfilled on this point. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Schopf.]] [[Abg. Stroll:... Insanity!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20105	Mr Matznetter is next spoken. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20128	Madam President. Mrs Federal Minister Karmasin! Federal Minister Schelling! Ladies and gentlemen! I am in itself not ungrateful that NEOS will present this issue of early retirements to large corporations, listed for this purpose, here. Only: Unfortunately, today it is a long session day with some important points, and one might have found a better time. But what a desire it is, and take advantage of this opportunity! [[Abg. Stroll: You take what is coming!]] – Let’s take the opportunity! This desire comes from the same neoliberals who constantly explain to us how incapable this government is supposed to be because it was too little to raise the retirement age. That is not true, however, because statistically we have seen a significant increase in the age of accession in actual pensions over the last 24 months. [[Calls: Too late]] – “Too late” some still scream from behind. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] What happens to the people in between? - All who have explained to us here: Yes, if people work longer, this does not affect older workers! Unfortunately, it is not! In the discussion you gave by your publishing house to a short debate, it was also about the question: What construction sites are now available for the new Minister of Social Affairs? And because the colleague Pilz raised the question whether he did it well or not: It's to do anyway! Part of the problem is increasing unemployment. Why? – Because it's not that easy to say: Keep everyone at work longer, and the work falls like manna from heaven! That's not how it works because the entrepreneurs... [[Abg. Stroll: Because your economic policy does not work!]] – No, not because of that, but because companies exert a permanent pressure on older workers to get them away as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, because... is completely beyond!]] The bigest, the smallest. The family businesses – and I say that to you, Mr Strolz – are the longest in the world. There are people who work in it until old age. But, of course, the big corporations are starting with head counting for the stock market, looking at how the company is set up, and the so-called "old load disposal". I do not want to know what the postal managers are getting to hear, how employees who have been working at the Austrian Post for decades are treated as material to be cleared away, as expressed in the news of the stock markets. [[Abg. Stroll: I'm on your side, at this point!]] And now, of course, there's the tendency in there: How can one follow this pressure of the stock exchange – the shareholder value? One effect of this is that there is a natural tendency: If there is a regulation somewhere, we want to get rid of it! However, the loser is at the end of the majority shareholder, namely the Austrian taxpayer, the Austrian taxpayer. Why? – They have to pay the pensions, because they are officials, they have a worse performance at the post, because they were of course staff with a high know-how that had been working there for decades. The winners are those 48 percent or so who have post shares but never made a contribution. When these 48 percent were privatized, one did not go here and said: Nice, the company will be rated according to its abilities!, but they said: There's an old load, the pragmatized officials! Therefore, the emission rate was much lower. That is, with the purchase of the stock, the shareholders who otherwise have or have not bought shares have long been replaced by the burden of the definitely placed ones, if it is at all one. Nevertheless, they continue to put pressure on them and ask the management: Well, how does that look now? How do we get down with the costs? Where do the expensive employees come from? – That is why such a system cannot work. My call and my request is: Let us take this issue seriously – older workers! Let us see that we are raising the opportunities for people to stay in employment for a long time, but vice versa, since we have systems that do not mean that they are not permanently treated as emissaries, that the construction workers who can no longer work because they have been working on the construction site for 30 years are not regarded as social blackmailers or even so, for these are people who have given everything! Let's take it into consideration! Some people can no longer work, and for them we need a decent form, for it is inappropriate to treat these people as almost like the locust. Let us help the others who have an office job and are spiritually powerful that they can continue to do so! You can have both, but let's leave the state and the dignity of those who can no longer work. This question also concerns: These are examined by the BVA. I do not assume that there is a different scale from that of private individuals. I know enough cases that have not been approved and where to ask yourself: Why not? who have not been able to work for a long time and have still not been approved. Perhaps there are also many among them who can't work anymore because the body no longer participates, and you should also consider that. It was good mail workers, and I find it appropriate to say thank you for their long working life, even if it ends a little earlier than what some imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20227	The next item is the report by Mrs Dr Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20248	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! In my former office as Minister of Justice, I was constantly confronted with the criticism of individual court decisions. I am therefore very pleased that in the present question the saying practice of the Federal Administrative Court is presented in a positive light. As positive I would also like to stress two concerns raised in the current question because I fully share these two aspects: the need to increase the actual retirement age and that it is also important at company level to take measures so that employees can stay in employment longer. As the answer to the question arises, for example, the post invests annually in the provision of adequate operating resources and at the same time in the expansion of the comprehensive health promotion programmes and training courses. But, Mr Matznetter, it is not enough that only the companies will become active. Of course, the state is also required to take the appropriate measures to keep people in work longer in order to raise the actual retirement age. It is not enough for me, Mr Matznetter, to rely on the fact that we have already taken sufficient action and that this will be enough and appropriate. We should take further steps. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am right in saying that, of course, it is also a matter of addressing the problems of older workers at work. Of course, one must also put in place there and put in place the appropriate measures. And something is missing or something has been discussed for too long, and we should finally implement it: the so-called partial illness. We experience time and again that workers are in the sick for a long time and then it is difficult to return to work as full-time workers. They often only have the opportunity to go to the incapacity or invalidity pension because they no longer create full entry into working life. Why don't we finally offer you the possibility that they can come back to work in part, that is, to work in part and to be in the state of illness, so as not to have to go to the pension immediately? – I would think that is a right and important measure. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me come back to the specific question. Reading this request gives the impression that it is very easy – yes, too simple – for post-post officials to retire or be sent to work because of incapacity for service. Let us therefore take a closer look at the relevant legal requirements! Incapacity for service within the meaning of § 14 Official Service Law shall be the inability due to physical or mental characteristics or defects to properly complete the workplace. In fact, this term is not covered by the concept of incapacity for work or incapacity for work. But we must not overlook one thing: § 14 BDG demands permanent incapacity for service, and so it is easy to achieve the permanent inability to serve again and again – even in this request – is not possible. In addition, the transfer to retirement due to incapacity for service is required, but also the lack of a minimum equivalent job, whose duties may be fulfilled by officials and which is also reasonable with regard to social considerations. These are the legal conditions within which the post of course has to move. Of course, expert opinions also play a role in assessing incapacity for work. This is also the subject of the question. According to § 14 of the BDG, in such cases, the pension insurance institution shall be responsible for assessing the health status of the official concerned. As the answer to the question arises, the PVA carries out a comprehensive assessment of the health situation with the help of the necessary specialists. Only if the Service Authority needs further explanations on the health status can other experts be employed, otherwise also professional experts. The request also addresses the payments provided for in the social plan of the Post Office in the case of retirement in accordance with § 14 BDG. It should be noted that this does not alter the strict conditions for a pension under § 14 BDG. This does not make it possible to send employees to pension faster or easier. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] It is rather a question of granting benefits in those cases where social hardships arise as a result of retirement, and I think that is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20342	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20364	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We do not have a single phenomenon to do with this question, its answer and the underlying case. It has not only been the Austrian Post or Telekom, which does this – we know that – we know it from a number of banks, we know it – and to a very large extent – from the ÖBB, and of course we also know it from many private companies. The point is that we are dealing with state or state-owned companies. My colleague, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, therefore, in this case, asked the post for a request to the then Minister of Dog Torfer and asked how he saw the details; since the reply was already very clear and partly surprising, surprisingly, inasmuch as the then Minister of Dog Torfer knew nothing about it and on the other hand even pointed out that this was not the case in the Government Convention. That is to say, in the Government Convention, both SPÖ and ÖVP have committed themselves to holding older employees longer in companies and not to doing so, let us say that they are doing away with the business environment accordingly. The question now is how the enterprises themselves are acting. We know about the ÖBB in recent years. Until now – let's say – one, two years has become merciless – up to the age level around 45. Year of life – the “personal status changed” as it always means so beautiful. That is, definitely employees were sent to pension and partly re-occupied with the so-called ASVGler. Now we have the same thing at the post office, and then the former Minister of Social Affairs tells Hundstorfer that he thinks this is a missing process. I wonder if, in the case of state and sub-state enterprises, the only regulatory thing we know is that the business sector is really the only one. As a state, we are dealing not only with the economic costs but also, above all, with social costs. I would like the government to vote better, that the Minister of Social Affairs does not say on the one hand that he does not want it and that it is not in the Government Convention, and that on the other hand, the financial and ownership leaders are cleaning themselves up for it and saying that it is ever wanted for them. Budgetary resources are of course not reserved in the Social Ministry. That is, there are special payments, there are special payments, and at the end of the day we didn't solve anything – quite the contrary – especially We did not solve anything with the employees, but we did not solve any additional problems. Responsible governance looks different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20409	Mr Schelling, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was next mentioned. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20430	Madam President. High house! The debate on older workers is one that we have very intensively; and this federal government has made it clear by several measures that we are setting up initiatives to keep more people in the labour market who are 50 years old and older. One of the methods used here is labour market policy. We have made additional €250 million available for this and the following year in order to accommodate older workers in the labour market and to avoid unemployment. We have now begun to implement the bonus malus system, and we will take further action in this context. It is therefore a high level of interest. Mr Loacker has already made it clear to Parliament that the Federal Ministry of Finance has no influence on the question of retirement transfers. We are a paying agency as far as pensions are concerned, but we are neither the service nor the pension authority of the company. What is being discussed here, of course, has the cause in civil service law. If you look at how Germany solved that at the time, you can see that it was very dramatic. There those companies that were transferred to privatisation have returned all officials to the Federation, and the companies have taken back those they needed again. This has not been done here, and one consequence of this is, of course, that, especially in civil service law, through Pragmatization, but also through strict redeployment protection, we often have little opportunity to adapt to the requirements. You know that not only the company itself is affected, but that, above all, liberalisation on the postal market has different frameworks and conditions; no one of you would be happy if we had to grant corresponding grants from public resources – or wherever – to do so. That is why I would like to point out once again – I have already done this today at the current hour – that it is a listed company and that there are institutions – the hot board and Supervisory Board – that have to decide. I also do not want us to intervene in these stock-licensing regulations, and I will not do so either. [[Complementary of the Abg. Tamandl.]] I believe that it is therefore necessary for us to consider very carefully, Mr Loacker, which comments are made here at the speaker's desk, and that You have to consider whether some consideration also causes damage to the company and to shareholders. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: That's incredible!]] The current legal bases do not allow for retirement in individual cases. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] We can discuss the question of the law on shares and what is caused by statements that are then harmful to the company once again. We have already presented this in the area of the OMV, if you were present in the early days. The answer to the question of what function you are taking is that this control function simply no longer exists since 2008 and that therefore the Federal Ministry of Finance cannot be called that it is based on this basis the individual retirement schemes. Secondly, it should be noted that the post is an important employer and that it is not about the average age, but actually because 35 percent of all post workers are over 50 years old. There was no trace of the average age at all. These 35 percent are now growing into an even older age structure, and therefore it is partly – although not complete – explain why this has risen from one year to the other. What is to be distinguished is the voluntary processing offer for older employees of the Austrian Post. Mrs Karl has already said that a permanent retirement scheme for incapacity for work can be completely distinguished. The legal conditions under which a permanent retirement change of officials may and must be made due to permanent incapacity for service shall be governed by law and not by anyone. Here, the social plan of the Austrian Post provides for measures for the suspension of social hardships. The voluntary processing offer, which is not subject to these rules, must be distinguished from that. One last word on the question of Bank Austria: I do not assume that, on the basis of the ruling legal situation, nothing can happen to you a transfer of over 3,000 employees to taxpayers. The second position you have to look at is – I'm going to look at the bank balance sheet more closely now – that there are probably billions of provisions for these pension contracts – spoken of as €4 billion – and that you are now ready to operate with transfers of €500 million. I think everyone will understand that this is unacceptable. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Loacker.]] What I personally don't understand is that a company that has already been sufficiently in the headlines over the past few months does not have a conversation about the intentions and plans with the responsible authorities so that we can discuss this before the public is informed in detail. I'd have expected that. That is why I also commented yesterday that I do not regard this as a fine way. However, I assume that the legal bases are not sufficient at the moment to carry out such a transfer; and if there is a legislative change, the House should be concerned with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20491	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20512	Madam President. Minister! I think this is interesting now, if the Minister says, which I still see as the final political leader in this field – and after all, the state of Austria is majority owners at the post office – if I understand correctly, that we are not even allowed to talk about abuses and mismanagements in the post for years in Parliament or elsewhere, so as not to endanger the stock price. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] In this regard, I am very grateful to NEOS for this request and also for the discussion of its reply, because I believe that this is an area that we should look at even more often and very intensively. That's why I can't see what you just said in a second. You really have to explain that to me again. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Schelling.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Yes, I'm sorry. The fact is that under black and blue the post was partially privatized. We know that for years there has really been dealing with employees in a way that is not even acceptable, but is unsocial and in any case worth an investigation. [[Abg. Moser: The highest terms of the board!]] I would not just like to talk about those who have already retired, or about those who are about to retire, but about working conditions as a whole. The losers in this whole game are the postmen and postmen who come to us every day, going from door to door. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Moser: Exactly!]] In part, as I have been told by a colleague today, they are going to go into the job one hour earlier so that they can still manage to supply larger areas which they now have to care for. That is, a postman in Upper Austria sometimes goes into the job in his spare time at 5 a.m. in the morning to sort the post there and then start on time at 6 p.m.; and this happens in a farm close to the state. I think this is totally irresponsible and it is very necessary that we look not only at those people who are being forced into retirement, but also at the working conditions in a company for which the state is responsible and responsible for at least more than half. I would like to point out once again what has happened for years. The employees were put into so-called career center and have been re-trained repeatedly. They have partly been really discouraged and frustrated. Before reaching any age of pension, which would have been worth a speech, they have been eroded. I would like us to have a lot more time here to look at these whole areas. It has already been pointed out that we are also experiencing similar things in the ÖBB. Probably the least - since you, Mr. Minister, mention that - who are about 50 years old, really experience the statutory retirement age, but are obviously much earlier transferred to the old age pension and in some forms of early retirement. I think it is in an area that concerns public services, which provides a public service - the daily delivery of mail, the postal offices that we all need - for quite necessary that we look there; and I also wish to see in the sense of NEOS – and just as it has been taken up before – that ministries respond to such requests more comprehensively and extensively, instead of suffocating us there in any form and saying that we cannot talk about it in all the public now, what has happened in an important company such as the Austrian Post for years. In that respect, I would ask you to take this approach in more detail and in the sense of a serious approach to Parliament in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20612	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20634	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, I think it is very good that we now find out after the debate that everyone is pretty much in agreement. There is a problem there for various reasons, but there is simply nothing we can do – also for different reasons – because there is a law there and one has to follow it; and it is not as if we are legislators here and could change it. I have to address Mr Matznetter in particular, because he has also said that this is not so bad, we have increased the retirement age over the last three years and that everything is well on the go. It is clear to all that it is either a one-time effect or in the case of a statistical inequality, namely the changes in disability and incapacity for work or the hacker scheme, which has led to a sudden increase in the retirement age. Nevertheless, we still have the problem that it is not at all enough that we are getting close to keeping pace with the increasing life expectancy, let alone getting the cost problem to grip. This will catch us up to 2060 at the latest, so that we can no longer deal with it. Mr Minister, you say that we have no influence here! That's really not true. If everyone agrees that this is the civil service law, we'll change that! There are plenty of possibilities, since the ASVG also takes over to introduce a similar scheme so that the same rules apply to all. As it may be, there were twice as many retirements in 2009, I am inexplicable. It may be that, as Mr Matznetter said, there are really often people who can't be anymore, but I would say that it's not statistically possible that in one year there were just twice as many in the end that they couldn't go on. I just can't do that. I also have to say – as we have already said – that this is also a sign of poverty for the supposed workers' movement, that they have sent fit older workers to the forced pension, who would have liked to work longer, who would like to work longer, who would like to contribute something that may not be sent to pension by all taxpayers. In general, however, this is such a problem that we simply do not have a pension system, which applies equally to all. We have different regulations. It's unfair, it's a disparity. We are disadvantageing different professional groups, social groups; and I would like to show a few examples – perhaps also as a guide – of what we could do in this forthcoming pension reform, for example, to address this problem of retirement in the event of incapacity for work; this is the law of civil servants. There is also a request from Mr Loacker, who has not yet been dealt with in the Committee. Everyone is free to agree if you believe that this might be a problem. We have also proposed, among other things, that these transfers should be possible not only in the scope of the respective service, but throughout the federal territory. Another point, for example, is the creation of the possibility of medical and professional rehabilitations, so that the same rules as those in normal mortality apply, because a pension system must be there for all. Then there are the other injustices like those that the pension account is not yet valid for officials, but only from 2028. There's just no explanation for that. If you come with administrative burden now, I must say that you are worth a lot of money, but justice in that case probably not. The next point is the women's retirement age: In our opinion, it is also unfair to women that this has still not been adjusted because we take away almost the best years in their career. Other points are further early retirement schemes or the hackler scheme. All incentives in this direction simply have to go away, and there has to be an approximation to the increasing life expectancy. [[Abg. Shopf: That's important!]] – I like it that you think all this is important. Do it once! Luxury and special pensions are urgently abolished. There can't be any more. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. New builder.]] I don't understand how you want to explain the other people. How can you stand here and say: Well, we haven't come to change that yet. – This is obviously not so urgent now. How can you explain that it can be that through this law, which you have raised in the constitutional rank, there can continue to be luxury pensions of over €9 000? – I would like to listen to that. And finally, as I expect it to be compared with the tax reform, on the 29th. It is likely that the “most securely largest pension reform of all time” or GröPaZ will be presented on February: Dear ÖVP, I am really looking forward to what you will present. They explain to us all the time or even now: It needs a ceiling for refugees, because we can't believe that to the population, it costs so much money, it doesn't go out! – This is about life and death. I would like to say that I would like to see a ceiling for political inactivity, for reform slowing down, for costs in the pension system. I would like to see a ceiling on debt, because this is just as unreasonable for the next generation. [[Abg. Rädler: Then you wouldn't be here! Then you wouldn't be there at all!]] Then we might also have money left in our budget to save people's lives. It needs a pension system that's there for everyone. I hope so.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20689	Mrs Ing. Dietrich's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20711	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The financing of the social system will be a huge challenge for all of us. Not for nothing have we discussed in recent weeks and months how and with what measures we can increase the age of entry. These are very comprehensive measures which, we hope, will be taken to really raise the age of entry. What we all want is a system for everyone. That is to say, no privileges, but really equal treatment. This also takes time for the systems to be aligned. Ladies and gentlemen, if we complain today that there are still officials in the post and that those with 50 or 50+ should go into retirement, then it is quite clear that there is a cry, namely of all those who are ASVG insured, who have to work up to 65, and of many more who have just had to take disadvantages through the reforms in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also be honest and say: The mail is privatized. And what the Germans did, namely that they brought the officials back into the system before privatization, was not done in Austria. Now we have privatized, semi-privateized, but there are still officials sitting on whom we no longer have any influence, because they are in a stock company, and we have to live with what the board of directors there decides. Of course, this is an unpleasant situation, but the Minister of Finance has no way of changing this situation, and he probably has no way of governing it either. We should have learned from the example of Germany that we should have done the homework before privatisation. Today, unfortunately, we must bear the consequences and also the funding of God. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the post office is anything but funny for the workers, I can only support my colleague Schwentner. Our mail carrier also complains of how overly demanding they are, under what time pressure they have to work, that they have a chip with which they are looked at exactly how long they are where. So this once so great paradise and the dream job at the post office is long gone. Let us take note of this and see, however, that together we can improve the situation in the sense of unification.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20765	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:44:28]] Short debate on the reply to the question 6819/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20786	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the number 6819/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. Mrs Schenk spoke at a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20817	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have decided today to deal with this question in a short debate, as I believe it is symptomatic of the lack of respect for the right of interconnection by the Ministry of the Interior. In this question, we have asked 17 questions, 17 important questions concerning ISIS, and three of these 17 questions have been answered, nine have been referred to the Committee on the Interior's Subcommittee, and five have shown that no statistics are available and there are no records. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a shame – I almost want to say – that you get such a response to such an important topic. And it's symptomatic, as I mentioned earlier. I've picked out the last ten responses. Almost everyone points out: The corresponding statistics are not conducted; high administrative burden is required; a reply has to be removed. It goes on in this breath, and this cannot be left unanswered here. The figures in the replies here also vary completely. If you write in your questioning of 13 dead people who have moved to the Holy War and then have not returned, the Constitutional Protection says that they were 30 dead at the end of 2014. In the 2014 Constitutional Protection Report, there were 39 deaths. – Yes, what is true now, Mrs. Minister? These are numbers that no one really knows! And not only do we here as Members of Parliament have the right to get figures and information on such important issues, but – and this is the most important thing – the people have the right to get this information. The Austrians, taxpayers and taxpayers have the right to get right and concrete figures here, and we ask them with the answer to the question. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] There are equally different figures as regards fighters who have left Austria to move into the jihad. Here, 68 people are spoken of, then 40 people are spoken, then 60 people are spoken, and the newspapers titles with other numbers again and again. “Austria” for example has spoken of 200 people and also appeals to the Ministry of the Interior. So this, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, is already things that can be - as I said - left unanswered. I would like to quote here the answers to the questions which I consider particularly important and essential, namely whether refugees have been controlled on IS materials and weapons, whether large amounts of cash have been found and how the consequences of these have been seen. To this end, it was said: There are no statistics on this; too much administrative burden. Now you have just decided to make €75 million available to refugees, €24 million is being awarded to the educational resort to offer German courses. So much money is taken over here, and you argue that you don't have money to collect these important data and make statistics?- Oh, my God! I quote: Also the questions about the number of crimes with IS background, e.g. where relevant symbols have been found et cetera, according to the number of found and fake passports and sexual assaults in federal institutions and in countries are not answered, as there are no statistics either. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I don't know how this answer comes about, whether you're still looking at it, if it goes over your table. I also do not know whether something will deliberately be hidden here, whether you are consciously trying not to inform the population and stop unpleasant information. Perhaps you will also keep it with your German colleague, the German Minister for the Interior, the says: Part of these answers would insecure the population. That is why we cannot give the answers, nor can we present the real figures of the crimes committed by refugees and by asylum seekers. This, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly not a policy, and here the population does not feel secure, because the population feels abandoned. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I have already commissioned a representative survey last year in the course of my petition “More security through a liberal arms law”. At the time, 67 percent of respondents indicated that they did not see their sense of security satisfied by politics. That was back then, in November 2014, when the refugee crisis was far from being on the stand on which it is now. If we were to do a survey now, it would look much worse. You can't always pass away from the public, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government and honourable Members of the government! Perhaps you can go outside again – “go outside” always sounds a bit funny – and come into contact with the population, with your voters, even now in relation to the State Protection Act. What, then, did you answer the countless persons who expressed their concerns in connection with the State Protection Act? Today, the petition for AKProposal has been handed over to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, where over 30 000 Austrians have spoken against this State Protection Act and have just signed this petition. So, on the one hand, you want to guard and stifle the Austrian population with the State Protection Act, which is still on the agenda today and is to be decided, and on the other hand, it is not possible for statistics and records to be kept, what happens to the refugees and asylum seekers who come here. You don't know where they come from because they don't have passports, no papers, we don't know what's in the backpacks. It has been mentioned several times here that suspects, who were also present in Paris, came with the wave of refugees to Austria or were swept through. So, ladies and gentlemen, we can certainly and really speak of a failed security policy. Now, in the course of the upcoming Federal Presidential election campaign – we have already heard it today – we get evidence from red and black that we are pulling the emergency brake here – Mr. Lugar, our clubman, has already carried out it today that everything will be effective only after the election – I also say: Why don't you make a finish now? Why don't you say: We do this now and then evaluate – and not only after the election!Unknown term type: "%s".? This, ladies and gentlemen, is not understandable to us and cannot find our support. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Madam Minister of the Interior, I would like to address one more point because you are not only very happy in writing, but also not at oral level; at least I can report this from the meetings in the Committee on the Interior, which I was present at. If you ask something there, you don't either respond or don't answer these questions either. I don't understand! We have also discussed this more often, and you have also said at one of the last meetings that you will be committed to it or that there are discussions or initiatives in the There's a direction that police can carry the gun out of service, which is not the case now. We know cops don't get a gun pass anymore. You said you could approach the proposal that the service ID should be sufficient for the police to carry or lead the weapon out of service. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I would like to point out that there has been no answer from you. – Maybe you are so gracious and can answer this request today. I would also like to point out, once again, that we should not punish and harass the Austrian legal owners of weapons with the intensification of the Weapons Act, the prohibition of semi-automatic weapons, but rather that we should take better care of the illegal weapons owners, the criminals, the criminals. It cannot be that more and more obligations are imposed on the citizen and fewer and less rights are granted. Self-defence must become a reason for need and must justify a right to a weapon passport. I would like to stress this again today. In this context, I also criticise the statistics that in the case of crimes, no difference is made between crimes involving legally possessed weapons and crimes involving illegally possessed weapons. Here, too, one can get the impression that the legal owners of weapons should be put in a bad light again, and this, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, cannot be allowed to stand that way! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In this sense, I am already curious about your reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20965	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e20986	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for the opportunity to address your allegations here in plenary. As you know, the dialogue with the ladies and gentlemen in general is very important to me and we always answer the questions correctly. However, I would like to point out in general that we have referred to the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior in response to some questions, because, as you know very well, this Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior is also here to answer detailed questions and to provide you with detailed information, backgrounds and insights into the matters of state protection. Many of these questions belong to the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior, and the members of the Standing Subcommittee know that the specific answer to questions is important to me and that we always answer the questions very specifically by our experts and also my person. For some other questions: Yes, we have pointed out that we do not have any corresponding statistics at hand, or that sometime the answer would be disproportionate in terms of administrative burden. But let me refer specifically to your, I believe, important question as to the sexual assaults in federal care institutions and national care institutions. If you have the criminal statistics in mind or if you look into it in the future, you will know that the crime scene in the crime statistics has been recorded by districts and that there are no facilities available here. The figures have been sent or sent to you in the context of the security report and have also been discussed. Therefore, in both respects I have been very expressive of the fact that the administrative burden would be too great, but that we can assure in all cases that, as a result of the increased risk situation, since the beginning of last year, of course, the strip service at the federal care facilities has been strengthened and that, above all – and this is new – since the beginning of this year, we have also included the “Asyl- and refugee accommodation” in the criminal statistics. This is new, and that means that in the future we will also be able to deliver these figures for 2016. On questions 7 and 9, I can say that no evaluations are carried out in this regard. In criminal statistics, for example, the categories of asylum seekers, foreigners and non-residents are conducted, but not the recognised refugee or asylumist. However, if you want to conclude that asylum seekers make up the majority of those persons who commit crimes in criminal acts, I must disappoint you. Yes, they have a share, that is undisputed, but the figures show that of the approximately 9,800 cases reported in 2014 and 2015, slightly more than one tenth, exactly 12.55 percent of asylum seekers have affected. To your question 13: These figures refer specifically to Austrian citizens. That means, depending on what they ask specifically, it is also the number of those concerned. In this case, it is transferred to Austrian citizens. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that I have been able to clear out any ambiguities now, and we will continue to answer your questions according to best knowledge and conscience. We try – and this is important to us – to be above all transparent here. Since the beginning of the legislative period, 1 225 requests have been made to the interior resort, to my resort. This means a high effort and very many hours or weeks associated with it. In this regard, I should like to thank once again the entire civil service, which, according to best knowledge and conscience, prepares these answers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21047	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. From now on, the speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21068	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! It was not quite clear, until Mr Schenk spoke, what direction this short debate should have: Should it be a debate on the quality of the answer to the question, which our side sometimes complains about? We have the opportunity to use it intensively today if one is dissatisfied with the quality of the answer to the question, to discuss this in plenary as we do now. Or should it be discussed in the debate on the issue of Islamist terrorism in Austria and in Europe? As has been pointed out, there has simply been a bruising of opposition flossels in which everything is packed in: for more fight against crime, for more fight against terrorism, but at the same time against all the legislative measures already taken and planned! [[Abg. Donate:... no flakes!]] [[Abg. Donate: After which?]] – For example, the Islam Law, the current discussion on the State Protection Act or the Law on the Protection of the Sexual Integrity of Women. [[Abg. Don't you give me that!]] [[Call to the Greens: Genau!]] I can remember that your group has not only acted very massively against it, but has even made fun of the fact that we are discussing an appropriate law in this House, and now you are coming and criticizing lack of political implementation. [[Abg. Those are two pairs of shoes!]] [[Abg. Donation:... colorful ostrich is getting bigger and bigger!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo!]] The issue is far too serious, and this has also been addressed by the Minister. We need to defend the right of parliamentary control – and we will discuss it in detail today – not only permanently, but also permanently. The Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior is a committee which is of the highest quality trying to answer the questions raised by Members. But the problem is: This can only work as it now works, because there is absolute silence for the members of this committee. A positive example is one of my favorite colleagues, the colleague Pilz, who often claims more than half of the speaking time in this subcommittee, but there has never been any word to the public about what we have discussed there! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] This is the prerequisite for such mechanisms, which we want to strengthen together, to work in the future. Of course, it would be advisable to attend this committee as a member of Parliament and not only to be represented by a club secretary, because then you have the opportunity to put many of these questions, which are then put in writing and not answered, directly in the committee. [[Abg. Hagen: What?]] However, ladies and gentlemen, the problem lies at the table. There is nothing to beautify, Islamist terrorism has arrived in Europe. We will continue to deal with this issue - both in terms of legal design and executive action - very often. In view of the short speaking time, however, I would like to conclude by mentioning one point: In addition to combating and eradicating terrorism, it is of course also important to combat the political and social roots – the feeding ground on which this fundamentalism arises. So, on the one hand, we need to create peace with all the means available to us – in Syria, Libya, in the states of southern Sahara – while at the same time restoring economic, political, democratic and social stability. We must take back a little of our domination, which we have been exercising since the time of colonialism in many countries of this region, in order to also give people the opportunity to be economically successful, to be embedded in a social environment and to be less vulnerable to fundamentalism, terrorism and violence.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21213	Mr Mag. Hammer's next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21234	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It is quite interesting for the Stronach team in this short debate on today's agenda to discuss what statistics are being conducted and what information we want to generate through laborious and difficult work. In our opinion, it is much better and more efficient not to discuss statistics in the fight against terrorism, but to act today, and we are dealing with the State Protection Act, which you, as you have already announced, will not agree with, but that is a very important and concrete step. [[Abg. Donate: That's right!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The request was made in concrete terms to the Federal Minister for the Interior. The Federal Minister also stated that it was the 1 225. Question is, and I can recall very few questions and complaints in this regard, as the Federal Minister for the Interior is known for this – and this is widely accepted – to provide truly comprehensive information and to comply with the law of inter-pollation. I should also like to thank you at this point. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] As far as the specific questions of this question are concerned, the Federal Minister has already mentioned that these are very specific, that these statistics are often not conducted and that information can really only be provided by manual, manual evaluation. It is not necessary to imagine the administrative burden, because we would be very far away from sparingness, practicability and cost-effectiveness – and this too, I believe, should be kept in mind – if we really have to evaluate each case manually and individually. I don't think that's what we want the police to do for you, so they can do less on the street. Much information – also said by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs – is provided to the public by the annual safety report, in which everything that is available to information is also communicated to the public. The question is, however, and the Stronach team could not answer it: What to do Finally, with this information you are asking here? What information do you have, and what does the Austrian population have of it? Of course, it is important to always raise awareness and inform the population, but in my opinion, the Federal Minister is the one who repeatedly points to threats and needs of action and also makes the people aware of the threats. [[Abg. Wenninger: Often more than is necessary!]] I think it is always important to have an appropriate picture of the situation. The Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior and the fact that we are getting the most important information there from the Constitutional Protection and the Anti-Terrorism Office – information, which, however, is also addressed, is to be treated confidentially, because the data is highly sensitive and not intended for the public, but which is essential for policy-makers and from which we have to draw the appropriate conclusions. This concerns the State Protection Act and also the border management on the refugee issue. At least it's nice, and there you have to knock on wood. [[to the speaker's desk knocking]] Fortunately, we have not had a terrorist attack in Austria, because the constitutional protection has done very good work to date, but of course with limited possibilities. And today, through the State Protection Act, we will be able to take further steps accordingly. The threat of terrorist attacks is often linked to the flows of refugees: Of course, there is a need for border management – I have already mentioned this – and of course it also needs to be safeguarded and registered at the EU's external borders in order to ensure that there is no IS fighter on this road to Austria. The question was also raised about Austrians who are in the jihad in these war and crisis zones in Syria or Iraq, with an answer to how many people have information. The crucial question is: What do we do with the returnees? Mrs Schenk, you also repeatedly address the question of the use of the police's military weapons in the private sector. The Minister of the Interior has already said several times that every police officer has the opportunity to make an appropriate request to carry the service force in the private sector. [[Abg. Donate:... rejected!]] The aim is not, however, that every police officer must feel obliged, even in the private sector, to always have his service weapon with him in his own private environment. That is why we want to do this on request, which is already possible and is also being implemented. In any event, I am convinced that Austria is doing a lot on the part of the government in the security field and is implementing the fight against terrorism very effectively. You can never really rule out terrorist attacks. We do our best, today's State Protection Act will also make its contribution, and the Minister of the Interior is doing excellent work in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21323	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21344	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, it is all right, I can thank Mr Hammer if, for example, we refer to the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior in reply to questions that are highly precarious. That's all right with us. But what is not going on, Mrs Federal Minister, is the following: To answer questions that will be put to you and made clear only by referring to the fact that statistics are not conducted! Mr Hammer has now defended you, but has mentioned what it is all about, namely questions 7 to 11. And, Mr Hammer, it must be left to the or the honourable Member how the questions are asked and what is being asked. Whether these are statistical questions or not, the honourable Member has always been left to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] If you are asked, Mrs. Federal Minister, how many controls have been found on refugees and asylum-seekers' ISIS symbols and how many weapons and ammunition have been found and about which greater amounts of cash and so on and so on, then your answer to them – or those of your officials or chief of the cabinet – is: “Similar statistics are not conducted. In view of the enormous administrative burden and the related exorbitant commitment to resources in relation to the economy, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of administrative action, the German Federal Minister of the Interior is being removed from a retrospective manual evaluation of all the relevant administrative acts.” Mrs. Federal Minister, it is a sense here to put the administration’s “parity, effectiveness and economics” into the shoes and not to answer that for the reason! [[Abg. Darmann: Insanity!]] – You can only say: Yes, weapons have been found! or: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If something has been found, you may well have to inform Mr Schenk. If you have managed to secure weapons by car, then we can discuss them in a reasonable, economical and economical manner, but if you may have found three, four, five, ten weapons, then the administrative burden to register them is zero. And I ask you here and now: What have you or your ministry done with the weapons found? Did you sell them on the black market? Did you let them disappear? That must be registered!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21418	Mr President, I would ask you to be moderate in your expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21433	Yes, but it must already be allowed that, if you receive such a reply, you ask yourself the question of what happened to the weapons that were found when they were found, because this is not known by the honourable Member. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] [[Abg. Darmann: There are no statistics... Insanity!]] You've got to question that, you've got to be allowed here! Also higher amounts of cash: Please, what happened to these things? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Darmann, Mr Schimanek and Mr Wöginger.]] What happened to it? There you can't say: This is too much administrative burden, it is not appropriate, it is not economic, and so on. – If If you put on these levers in your own ministry in the advertising circuits, then it's okay, so you should also work: economical, useful and economical, but please, when it comes to weapons, when it comes to ammunition found at borders, then there's a bit of fun for internal security, Madam President! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] And then you don't need to be so excited when here at the speaker's desk a Member asks what actually happened to things. It must be allowed. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] The answer to these questions should be properly carried out, then such questions can be separated. I would just like to say to you, because they always say: to act humanitarianly, not to secure borders, to leave everyone in the country, and so on, to read something – to Mohamed Mahmoud; that is to read in Wikipedia, is not mine –: [[Abg. Schönegger: Who says that?]] Mohamed Mahmoud “is an Austrian Islamist and condemned terrorist. ==References====External links== June 2012 bans Islamic organization (...) Origin: His father Sami Mahmoud was a member of the then forbidden Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. Fearing a arrest, he fled to Austria and received asylum, five years later Austrian citizenship, which was also automatically extended to his children already born in Austria.” So it is not that way, ladies and gentlemen, to keep the excitement that everyone who is persecuted in his country is a good one. Most of them are really persecuted and refugees, but they also involve criminals who then take advantage of this and plan such things in Austria. That is why this question must be allowed, in times like these, where there are many indications from foreign intelligence services that Austria is also a target and a envelope of weapons. This question is allowed, which has not been answered, and that is actually against parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21510	Mrs Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21531	Yes, there is a need to listen to all kinds of people here, including Members who, in front of themselves, are imagining, the Ministry of the Interior could offer seized weapons on the black market. Mr Lausch, if you made such immense remarks from the speaker's desk, it would be useful... [[Abg. Darmann: So if you don't understand the statement...!]] - Ah, you know what, let's do that, it doesn't make any sense at all. [[Abg. Lopatka: It doesn't make any sense!]] [[Abg. Wögerer: Meaningless!]] [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am satisfied with the observation: It's all right without a slut! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Gerstl.]] [[Abg. Lausch: The old mushroom...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] For the debate itself: Mrs Bundesminister, I already understand that certain questions are also being raised publicly. If a Vienna police president appears and advises single women in Vienna not to go to the street without accompanying them in the evening, and the Minister of the Interior then says that she can give no information about possible threatening crimes and the danger to women – not only in large cities – because no records are made, then that is too little for me. Either the President of the Police is totally unaccountable and puts women – not only in Vienna – in unnecessary fear, or the Ministry of the Interior knows more and tells us too little. I really cannot judge it, I would like to know, and in particular I believe that there are many women who want clear answers. The second is: In the case of crimes such as rapes and serious attacks on human integrity, I don't understand that one says: All foreigners! and the others: Not foreigners at all! - That's funny! The security authorities and the rule of law have the duty to protect people, no matter where they come from, and to prosecute these crimes. This is an incredibly difficult and successful offence, and I have no understanding at all of it if it is only used in some way or in a political way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] It's just not going to work, and I think it's very indecent. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wenninger.]] Now there are real problems. Excuse me, Madam Minister of the Interior, I fully understand: Some of the questions put by the honourable Member, Mr Donk, could be answered in public, but there is nothing legal about this, but we, as members of the Standing Subcommittee, are obliged to keep secret. I have a certain understanding that certain responses, which are of highest sensitivity, are only given in this subcommittee. In certain sensitive investigations, it is not always possible to talk publicly about certain investigative results and certain very specific dangers. That's why we demand on the one hand: No secret of constitutional protection from Parliament!, but, on the other hand, a strict secrecy of the information that Parliament receives by the Members themselves, and - that has already been said - that works very well so far. That is why I also understand that very certain answers are not given. But, Mrs Federal Minister, you should be able to talk openly about what is going on in Bosnia-Herzegovina when terrorist camps financed by Saudis are built and expanded if there are relevant meetings near Liège when Salafist organizations are already financed in the kindergarten and school area of Saudi Arabia and others by the Turkish government! I'm not ready to look away from that. I consider this not only to be a security-political problem, but also to be a first-class obstacle to integration when Saudi Arabia and Turkey are financed by certain cultural and educational developments, which have nothing to do with integration, but everything with isolation, nothing with our rule of law and human rights principles, but everything with cultures that are incompatible for us, especially legal cultures that are incompatible. We must be able to talk about it openly! It is important that these school and kindergarten debates, these financing debates and the debates on what is with Saudi money are held as well as the debate on how, under the eyes of the Ministry of the Interior, war material can be exported to war-leading states in the Middle East for many years; I am just saying: in particular, also by the company Hirtenberger. There people there, the troops, the refugees don't get food, because there's a saving, and the other side gets Austrian weapons – and then there's a terrible pity when people flee from Austrian weapons to secure Europe without proper food supplies. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] There are serious shortcomings, Mrs Innen Minister, and we will try to clarify these serious shortcomings together, as far as your responsibility is concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21654	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21675	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, in this debate it is almost inevitable to look at the motives of the Stronach team, on why this request is being put. It has also been confirmed in the previous speeches that there has been speculation about what is actually the reason for this. Indeed, it is true that answers to these questions can only be given in the Standing Subcommittee. The Minister of Foreign Affairs certainly does not need my defense, but I have to say that she speaks rather too long and is too happy, so that some answers do not go out at all. But you could not blame her for refusing the answers. So in full awareness of this, of course, this has another motivation, namely that once again the topics of terrorism and refugees should somehow be linked causally to each other. It also says in the request that “the (permanent) wave of refugees ” would provide a“ perfect opportunity ” to “invent ” terrorists. As proof of this, you lead exactly one person. – With this sample size, neither Kolmogorov nor Smirnow will help you get out of it You can't derive evidence. That's why you're also reaching speculation – and it's speculation – that it could be several thousand; and you're still mixing all kinds of other crime issues into this request, so that a beautiful mixture of asylum, terrorism and other crime results, which, of course, has nothing to do with each other. It is also the thought in this causality and also in its negative interpretation absurd when you say things like: Not every terrorist was a refugee! or vice versa, even more absurd: Not every refugee is also a terrorist, because no refugee is a terrorist. If someone flees from terror, he cannot be a terrorist at the same time; You probably have to give me the right thing that's kind of paradoxical. If in the crowd of people coming there are others among the refugees who are called terrorists or terrorists, then they are not attributable to this other crowd as a subset – but you probably do not even understand that, and it is also meated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donate.]] In any case, reality looks different; since you do not have to work with small samples, you do not have to work with speculations. France has less than 80 000 asylum seekers and asylum seekers in some 66 million inhabitants, and yet France has experienced two major terrorist attacks last year, or more independently of them. A cause for this is certainly also to be sought in the failed integration. There has also been terrorist attacks in Europe in front of the wave of refugees. Think back: In 2005 in London, three of the four suspects were British; in 2004 in Madrid with 191 dead, the leader lived in Spain since the beginning of the nineties. Both attacks show: The terrorists were not refugees, they have lived in the country for a long time, and the challenge we have to face in order not to enlarge the problem is, of course, integration, which means to limit radicalisation in the approach. Look away, nothing helps. There is, of course, also an example of Islamic kindergartens, without wanting to take them out as a singular example. This is about the initial polarization in society, which, of course, continues in education; there is still a strong separation of religious teachings. There are appropriate requests from NEOS, but also from colleagues from Walser and the Greens, to introduce something like an ethical and religious teaching, so as not to continue to maintain this artificial separation. Later, one has to reconcile the religious groups again; then one invests in a center for interreligious dialogue, as if one could talk away the problems. And now tell me what exactly the contribution of the King Abdullah Centre to religious fundamentalism was, except that it was further legitimated! [[Abg. Wheeler: Pastafist...!]] – Pastafari, not “pastafist”. I'll explain this to you separately. [[Cheerfulness to Members of NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] Terrorism, at least, is not a national task, there is a need for more Europe, more cooperation between national authorities. Of course, sharing must be done in accordance with clear rules and supervised by an independent control body, which could be the European Anti-Terror Centre ECTC in The Hague. The question of refugees cannot, of course, be solved by 28 national-level single-courses. We have prepared a five-point plan for this, which Matthias Strolz has already presented, which I would like to express only in the headlines in view of the remaining speaking time. Point one: common asylum procedure and thus the end of the Dublin regime. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Secondly, Deepening of the Schengen area, such as a Schengen 2.0, also with a possible reduction. Furthermore, a quick procedure for subsidiary protection in order to ensure exactly this easier recognition, and a return agreement, including with those countries which have not currently signed it. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again]] And, fifthly, of course, a clear separation of protection seekers and labour migration.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21742	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21763	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Alm, as the Schelm thinks, he is – I would like to say this at the beginning of your speech. [[Congratulations to Members Dietrich and Schenk.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this question by Mr Schenk, more or less not answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior. I looked at this: This is not the first question to the Federal Minister for the Interior, who is not answered with any reference to the fact that it is too difficult to conduct statistics. I myself have asked some questions to them, which I have also considered making a question. In one case, I even know it specifically: That's where I think it's about a handful of cases where you then wrote me that the administrative burden is too high. – I could report these cases to you externally; even there, one has come up with the excuse that the administrative burden is too high. So this is rather an excuse not to have to answer here. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed with the answer to the question. There are points 1 to 5: ‘It shall be referred to the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior.’ Let us look at the questions: There you can still discuss one, two questions and say, that is perhaps limitable, but please, Question 5 – “Can you discuss the existence of IS fighters or. Members in Austria are excluded?” – could you answer with Yes or No; there is no longer asked. And everyone knows what the answer is, ladies and gentlemen. So in my opinion, this is already a disregard for the right of interconnection – and I could read a few more examples to you. I believe that the question of how many of the IS members or sympathists who have been attacked in Austria have Austrian citizenship is not a question that falls under strictest state secrecy, but that would have been answered. Ladies and gentlemen, let us come to point 17: Then it will be a bit interesting; I had a similar case when you answered a request from you. You wrote to me at the time, you can't answer the question because of the huge administrative burden and no statistics will be conducted, and a few days later I learned the numbers I had requested one to one from the newspaper; there you mentioned them. – This is not the way to deal with Parliament, Mrs Federal Minister, which is certainly not fair what you are doing here! Question No 17 reads: “The press” (26.08.2015) reported on the conscious dissemination of a distorted picture of the security situation by the press office of the Vienna police. In fact, there is something from police groups about a ‘moon basket’; also in social networks, it is reported on refugee crime, which will be kept silent to the public. Were instructions, discharges or ‘moon baskets’ given on the part of your resort in relation to refugee crime in order not to poison the general mood in addition?’ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] That's where you refer again to the Subcommittee, the state security. When asked if you gave a muzzle or not, and if that's even in the paper, you're referring to strictest secrecy. – Mrs Federal Minister, this has nothing to do with the questioning of Members' right, which is rather a disregard for the right of interconnection and Parliament. You'd better answer that. Let us remember Cologne – that is Germany, but it will not be different with us either: The police there made a press release on New Year's Eve that it was a totally quiet and pleasant New Year's Eve and there were no incidents. – What do you think the police officers who have been there in the Tumult department think and what our police officers think if you give instructions that certain information may not be issued? After all, this is always done to me by police officers who tell me: Please do something! We must not report many things in order not to worry about the situation. Mrs Bundesminister, this should not be in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21833	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[16:32:46]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21855	I will start the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda again. The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21879	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! We are taking up the debate again to discuss the new members of the government. Of course we wish them all the best, I think everything else would not be collegial, would not be fair – Mr Doskozil, you are the one who is re-entering here; Especially good to you! – but otherwise I have to say – the Federal Chancellor is not here now – the whole reminds me of a childbirth day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen]] You may know the game “Travel to Jerusalem”; this is a stop dance game, the music is turned on, and when it is turned off then you have to look for a new position. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, we know that.]] The well-known Chef DJ in Austria for this game is usually Reinhold Lopatka: Whenever he turns off the music, however, new ones are added to it, he has changed the rules of the game in this game; but obviously now the Federal Chancellor is also trying to play this game. I consider this rather arbitrary change of ministerial offices to be highly questionable. The hat players are at home in Maria-Theresien-Straße and hopefully not in the Federal Government. Just changing the hat overnight and thinking that this has appeal, I honestly think it's difficult, because if everyone can do everything, no one can do anything right at the end, you have the impression. I also believe that it is questionable if the heights of a federal government exist in occasional ministerial changes, which already sheds a slanting light on a federal government. A lot has already been changed when I look at the three ministries. Gabi Moser told me that she has already experienced a total of twelve transport/infrastructure ministers; that is, this ministry is already on autopilot, as obviously not much can happen. Unfortunately, too little is happening for Austria's economic location. Of course, it is important to defend the country. I would like us to come to a real security-political discourse in the state defense in Austria. The only contribution of this government was a popular survey, which, however, has also taken place under disturbing circumstances, from the discussion. Then I look at the social resort: I wish Mr Stöger all the best, of course, because the subject of pensions will be a very central one. And if I hear from the Federal Government now: Ah, we have federal presidential elections, we can't do anything gross about reforms, that's happening at the moment! when I hear that in the Federal Government we are already under discussion, that the pension reform may be completely overturned – because you know, you're not bringing anything together – and if I see that the ÖVP is back on the unpopular Spindelegger course, for example, one is already giving up on issues such as pension automaticism, because you know, you can't spend it, and it's not that important, then it's not a good sign, then, I think, just the interests of the next generation will be betrayed here again. The pension system is scrapped in this form, we need a model change, we need in principle new mechanisms here. A single-fit flexi board model, as we suggest, Mr Stöger, should be within your scope of implementation. However, I do not believe that the reforms will continue to be the highlights of this government, but in the next few years we will again experience some change in the ministry. – That’s too little for this country, that’s really too little, but you’re all good personally anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21922	The next speaker was Mr Muchich. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e21943	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Values Members – especially new members – of the Federal Government! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to take the opportunity to thank our Social Minister, apart from Mr Rudolf Hundstorfer, who for seven years led the social resort in difficult economic times and who was also very keen not only to manage but also to design. He managed a lot in difficult times: I recall the short work in the course of the financial and economic crisis, the care funds he has created, the wage and social dumping control law, the improvement of motherhood protection, the creation of a bridge-up fee for heavy workers in the construction industry, and the training guarantee for young people, and on the last working day he sent a model, the training requirement, into review. He was crisis manager in large insolvencys, you remember dayli, at the destination, of Alpine, where you could really personally experience – especially in the Alpine – that he fought with passion and heart for jobs. We have been able to secure 300 jobs for construction workers in a night-and-nebulous action without press release and without public work from Sunday to Monday through a takeover model from another construction company. That was great what was done there, and I allow myself to say that he was one of the most competent social ministers in the Second Republic. Thank you very much, and since there has been no more adoption of the Committee, from this point of view I wish him every good thing for the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am also very confident and very convinced as regards cooperation with the new members of the government. I met Alois Stöger as a designer in the Ministry of Transport. He was the first Federal Minister who, in June 2015, voluntarily implemented the best bidder principle in his political responsibility and competence before the law came into force. He did not wait for Parliament to come up with a solution, but ASFINAG and ÖBB have voluntarily implemented this, and he said an essential sentence: The best bidder principle is expected from the first minute, where the money remains in the country, which boosts the economy, which secures tax revenue to finance ministers. This is calculated from the first minute, we don't need expensive studies, that's what we're doing! – Thank you, Alois Stäger, for this first important step in the best bidder principle. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am very confident that this will continue under Federal Minister Klug, that in his field of activity, now in this important position and function, we can continue to work positively also when it comes to regional allocations and employment for Austrian companies with their employees. In conclusion: I am really confident that our Minister of Social Affairs Stöger will be very well aware of this, of all the difficulties that exist, and of the challenges to be solved. In fact, as a social speaker, I am looking forward to the debate on the future of our pensions, although we will never have a common solution here in this House, but I believe that we have a lot to correct. We still have things to repair: How do we finance our pensions? How do the contributions of the various pension systems and types look like? What does someone who is self-employed pay, what does someone who is self-employed pay, what does a person pay from agriculture? How do we arrange the discounts for them to be fairer and fairer? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Could it be that someone who works for 45 years gets 15 percent off, and someone who works 35 years because he starts at the age of 30 doesn't pay any discounts? I am looking forward to these debates. We are well prepared to go into these conversations here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22018	Next, Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22040	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In your speech, Mr Bundeskanzler, you indicated just under three hours ago that the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Social Affairs, the former Minister of Social Affairs, had been a member of the government as a Minister of Social Affairs for seven years, if we wish to call it so. You said he'd done such a great job and it's so bad that he's leaving this office now. I would like to look at this from the point of view of a citizen of the state of Austria. As a result of this seven-year activity today: the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic, of all the immigrants who have now arrived – I say now that immigrants, refugees, asylum seekers, whatever – most of them are not available to work. This will further increase these statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, it's really not that wonderful. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: What was your contribution? ...for example?]] If the success rate only looks that way, then I am already excited about what the new Social Minister will do, whom I would like to congratulate on his promotion or on his new office – I do not know if I should congratulate or condolence, because you have a lot of work to do, Mr Social Minister. I personally appreciate that we have had a lot to do with each other in the transport sector. I have always been very positive about this here that you, Mr. current Social Minister, former Minister of Transport, have taken some initiatives and requests from me, from the Stronach team, and then implemented them for the benefit of the Austrians, for the benefit of the drivers. But I would like to continue to give you the hint that the Stronach team has many good requests to continue to include and implement them, as other parties do now. I think you'll have success. Austria needs to implement these measures. Mr Sozialminister, trust yourself! I know you're someone who can handle it. If you're here about party politics, stand up. You see, that the Austrians do well to see that the good policy here in the house finds its reward! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would then like to go on to the Minister Klug, who has now been or has been sent from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Infrastructure, Ministry of Transport. My praise is not so good now. Mr Minister, don't be angry with me, but you can see that in your previous ministry – in sport we are quite successful, but I do not think that is yours – the federal army has absolutely been against the wall. What am I supposed to think of a transport minister who is driving the federal army against the wall?, if I may say so now. I hope you learn from these mistakes. I would like you to step into the steps of your predecessor and take up and implement opposition requests – and in particular my requests, I've been making long transport policy, I'm a police officer, I know what I'm talking about. I'd like to help you get on with it. I make this offer to all the ministers, I have done it all the time, Mrs Steßl, the Secretary of State, knows. I'm ready to cooperate. I have many good ideas for the benefit of the citizens. Come to me, I'll help you, give you your support lady, as they say, so that you don't get in here, Minister. The offer stands. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I cannot say anything negative about the Minister of Defence. I know Mr Doskozil as the country police director of the Burgenland. I didn't have much to do with him personally. You're going to have a heavy inheritance, I have to tell you. But I noticed something. You really have, as Mr Lopatka said today, to do “a gross lot”, I can honestly tell you. I was in Kosovo a few days ago, talking to the team. At the security reception in Vorarlberg, I spoke with senior officers and officers and also with soldiers. I found out there that people have big problems and that the federal army is a huge construction site. [[Abg. Wenninger: In Kosovo...! We've heard other people!]] That's why I was happy today when I finally saw a general smile back there. It's been a long time since I saw the last general sitting back here with a happy face. That's something that gives me a boost. Mr Federal Minister for Defence, I would also like to put you right under the arms and bring in two motions for resolutions to make work easier for you. You just have to record this, then you're already on the winner's side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] The second motion for a resolution is as follows: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Robert Lugar, Mag. Gernot Darmann, colleagues on the refugee crisis: National shoulder closure for the protection of Austria’ The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to give immediate legislative action to the National Council to resolve the refugee crisis in the context of a national epaulment, in order to reduce, for example, asylum procedures in a sustainable manner, to intensify deportations in particular for asylum seekers, to reject economic refugees at the national border, and to increase the funds of the security executives and the federal army." Ladies and gentlemen, if you follow, then not only have you won, but also Austria in great sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22154	Both motions for resolutions are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22275	Federal Minister Mag. Doskozil has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22296	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Federal Chancellor! Appreciative Members of the Government! I am really very happy that I can speak to you a day after the Angelobung. They are part of the highest representatives in the state. They are part of the legislative bodies. They are part of one of the most important institutions in our country, and we can live here today to see how separation of violence works in Austria: Distinguishing violence by acting on one side, on the controlling, legislative level are, and separate violence, by working here in the government responsibility, in the enforcement level. But we certainly agree on a common goal: that we work for our people, that we work for the people of the country, that we can ensure a peaceful living together on the basis of security. In my view, security is a very central aspect of our society. Security is becoming more and more important. I therefore offer you – and I am already looking forward to working with you – to really work on this issue together. However, security also means that within the government, we come to the conclusion that we are working together on and dealing with this issue within the government. One of the central ministries, centrally responsible for this topic, is naturally the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior has a very essential competence and competence when it comes to the questions that are now moving us when it comes to asylum, strangers, how is it going to continue if we listen to the questions in the population? However, the department of defence also has an essential competence in the field of security. We know the situation in the field of assistance. We know that the area of defence must also cover a very important aspect in the future when it comes to the security situation in Austria. That is why I invite the Minister for the Interior to cooperate. It has already been titled a weekly magazine last week: Is that what you're doing? – I think we'll try to make it. I cannot speak to you today and say that we will do this with absolute certainty, but I can promise you that I will do everything we can to make an effort to reach the best possible solution in this conglomerate, in this cooperation of defense and home. But one thing I would like to emphasize very much in this way, and I believe that I have proved this over the last few weeks, in recent months: For me, two aspects are of vital importance: One aspect is humanity, the other aspect is rule of law. I believe that in the past, the department of defence has always and historically proved quite impressive that it has humanitarian access when it comes to disaster aid when it comes to peacekeeping abroad. But it is also very, very essential that we all, from the smallest police officer, from the smallest soldier to this level of execution, always have the rule of law in mind and must respect the principle of the rule of law. [[As a result, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee. Dietrich.]] Of course, these issues and this requirement and this access to a subject matter are of particular importance to me, too, when it comes to asylum when it comes to the issue of foreign law. We have already experienced today's discussion: We did a lot last year. We introduced 90 000 people into an asylum procedure last year. We have provided a large number of people with basic provisions, including basic care. And we note it in the systems, we notice it in the mood in the population, we will be able to afford ourselves a second year with similar numbers, with even higher numbers insofar as – if you look beyond the edge of the plate – it is not possible that only two to three states in Europe bear such burdens. We will not be able to afford this classification in the long run. That is why it was very important to conclude an agreement last week, where we define ourselves and set our goals, on the basis of the rule of law, on the basis of the possibilities offered to us by the laws that you have passed, to minimise these numbers of refugees and not to forget humanitarian access. ==References== In November 2015, you decided on a motion for a resolution and instructed the defence body, or indirectly the defence body, the government, to reconsider the Austrian federal army's structural package, the reform in the area of the Austrian federal army, both in the central office and in the area. I would like to thank you for this motion for a resolution, because I believe it is also fair to say that it has changed the framework conditions. We currently have completely different conditions. We do not know how things continue in Ukraine. There are also daily military conflicts in this area. We don't know what terror brings. You all know what happened in Paris, what happened in France. And we are all the less aware of how the refugee situation will develop, if there are other areas of crisis. That is why, I mentioned this earlier, we are very much called upon in this interplay of the two ministries to also ensure that we are preparing for these tasks in the department of defence, knowing that we are only in the field of assistance in this context. But from these points of view, we will re-evaluate our structural reform, our projects, and we will re-evaluate and re-evaluate our projects. A very essential aspect for the German army – and I am back in the daily discussion – is, of course, the military system and also the ground defense system. To the Miliz system: Today, in the early morning, I was convinced by the fact that we already have 140, 150 military soldiers in the assistance. The military system is active, the military system is equipped, of course, needs to be better equipped, but the military system works and is now also involved in the assistance. And if we now have the discussion about the ground defense service and the way we might use land defence servants, I can already point out that we have used land defence servants on the Burgenland-Hungarian border in the past and for many years in the Burgenland, that we have also used them on the Lower Austrian-Slovak border and, of course, on the Czech border. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] These groundmen were armed, these groundmen were equipped with police powers, and this system has worked for years. I don't want to send basic defenses who aren't sure into a situation they can't deal with. As a police director, as a national police director, I never sent police officers into a mission where I would not have known that they could handle this mission. I insist that you have to train basic defence workers accordingly, I insist that you prepare them and that you also have to discuss what quality of deployments they can handle in what situation. But this debate must first be conducted internally, and we are, of course, prepared to act accordingly in a further series. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pillow.]] Finally, this ministry also includes other agendas, and I come to the sport. Sport is also a very important factor. The sport also connects these two agendas because we have a large number of army athletes who are led through this rail to the top sports. I would like to make a clear commitment to sport promotion, I would like to make a clear commitment to top-level sport. The top-level sport is a very essential carrier when it comes to giving examples for wide-ranging sports as well as to attracting wide-ranging sports. My most important approach in the field of wide-ranging sport will be to link health care to bringing wide-ranging sports to schools and positioning wide-ranging sports as health care. I'd like to finish by now. I invite you all to ask for me in further succession and in our cooperation. I invite you to contact me – especially the speakers, the security spokespersons, the sports spokespersons and our peace spokespersons, he can contact me, and we will have a nice conversation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22410	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22432	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I welcome the ministers in their new functions, especially the Minister for Defence, who is a new member of the Cabinet. Your words have been good to us, Minister. In any event, you will have our support if, in close cooperation, you will also implement these points that you have addressed with the Minister of the Interior. You get some kind of advance lady bear wreath from us, from the ÖVP fraction. We will work together on this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to start by thanking the Minister Rudolf Hundstorfer – former Minister responsible for my field, I must say. I worked with him for six years in a very cooperative and good way, which does not mean that we were always of one opinion. But, I think, we've done a lot of work together. There has been a lot of progress in the field of care – care funds, care funds reform have been addressed – for which the Court of Auditors even praised us. We have also recently implemented many social policy measures, labour market package, labour law, older workers as a focus with additional resources, integration aid et cetera. This also deserves respect and recognition. I also wish as social spokesperson of the ÖVP Rudi Hundstorfer all the best for his personal future, and I thank him for the cooperation in recent years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it is also about the challenge that we have to face – as I am a practitioner – to look at reality too. Of course, we have a very tense situation on the labour market. I am now dealing exclusively with the social field, including our new Minister, Alois Stöger. We have to face the challenge, especially as regards the tense situation in the labour market, which will be very busy and challenging by integration in the future. This will be a situation in which we all have to stand together and help together, only then will we be able to achieve it. I'd like to say in advance: We will also give this support to those people who need support. But we must ensure that our social system, which is generally well built, does not run out of the row. This is about addressing the social benefits that have been given to us to a very high degree that we can also secure them for the future. That is why we need urgent action. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Mr Minister, this will be the first place where we both have to come to a solution in the vote: the area of minimum security. Today, in Upper Austria, of course, there is also a lot of media going on about this topic. I only mention a few figures to explain and reject the claim that we are here submitting inhuman or family-oriented proposals. The issue is that this system can be maintained and that it remains financially viable. Ladies and gentlemen! It simply remains and simply not, we can see that only by means of the numbers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We currently have 12,600 asylum seekers in basic care in Upper Austria, 2,648 recognised refugees in July. If I say now that half of it comes about, then more than 6,000 refugees are added, who have a recognised status, which is all right. No one's questioning that. But in Upper Austria, for example, 100 percent of the municipalities are responsible for financing. This is not shown in the budgets. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a councillor myself, there's a lot of mayors sitting here, and they know it's not possible to do that. That is why we need to bring the system to another rail. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: What do you want? That people are on the street?]] Mrs. Colleague! We have 40 000 to 50 000 additional people who will come to minimum security as recognized refugees throughout Austria. We can't give in to any left-wing dreams. [[Abg. Schwentner: Yes, we know that these are great challenges!]] We must look at reality and ensure financial viability in this sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: These are legal questions! That's incredible!]] That is why I say once again that we have put the proposals on the table. [[Abg. Schwentner: This is wrong!]] It's not unsocial. If I have a minimum guarantee for a large family, which is also okay if the family estate is justified, if there is a cover at €1500 net, that means 2 100 € gross earnings plus family allowance – no one wants to limit the family allowance – then explain to the people who earn 2 000, 2 500 € gross, who pay here taxes and social taxes, such as those who come out with their money and also provide their children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not a non-social measure. This is a measure, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to have this good system in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22561	Mr Bösch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22583	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I address you in particular, Mr Doskozil, as a new Minister for State Defense, Because we'll have to deal with each other in the next few days. I have listened carefully to your words which you addressed to us before, and they have given me a little hope in terms of our cooperation, because you are taking over, Mr Doskozil, a very difficult heritage in very difficult times, as your negligent officials have led a pillar of Austrian security policy into the abyss. The Austrian army is now in its ruins. It will be your job to rebuild something from these ruins. I would like to apologize, Federal Minister Klug, for saying this in this clarity. You know, I've always enjoyed personal dealings with you, but your policy, I must honestly say, I didn't understand. I hope that in your new department you will make a policy that will not result in the National Council of this policy acting unanimously in the foreseeable future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Doskozil, you have announced that you are re-examined in the Austrian National Council's order for 2018 that you will also forward to the public your new ideas regarding the structure of the Austrian federal army in Bälde. We're excited about it, and I'm asking you to do it quickly, because we don't have time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Europe is sinking into terror. Europe is sinking into illegal mass immigration. It is high time that both the federal governments and our federal government stopped closing their eyes to this reality. What the Austrian Federal Government has done in recent months on this issue is – and I do not want to be too rupture – not a reputation, which the Austrian Federal Government has meant to the public in recent months on this existential issue. Mr Doskozil, you are now coming to a federal government that has needed several weeks to call a fence fence. They come to a federal government that has taken many months to realize that asylum is basically a right to time. Asylum is basically a right to time. People who have no right to asylum have to return, and people who are granted asylum have to be prepared to return once the asylum grounds have been deleted. You should finally speak a clear language here. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] The Austrian Federal Government did not succeed, especially last summer was a tragedy. Unfortunately, you, Minister Doskozil, have also played a role in this tragedy of God, but I think that you were only the consignees at the time. But I can tell you – even though some of you are knocking on your shoulder, Federal Minister – that most people in this Republic do not understand that we have a supposed functioning police that looks unkempt as our borders are overrun. – That can't be the future policy, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should therefore like to ask you, in the sense of the words you have addressed to us, to develop a self-confidence and speedily an independent policy and not just to do what your party chairman has told you, because that has already been done by your predecessor and that has ended in chaos. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Make a decent, right policy in the sense of building an Austrian federal army capable of playing a decisive role in the state crisis in which we are located! If you set up the groundmen, make them neat, extend the military service if necessary It's! Set You all the structural cuts to zero that have been planned! Get the structure of the Austrian federal army! In the future, the German army will become more and more training places, and there will be a need for disillusionment from which it will intervene effectively. Improve the salary situation of all the soldiers, Mr. Federal Minister! Improve the salary situation of professional soldiers! The Austrian federal army must become an attractive employer, otherwise it will fail. Improve the salary of the ground defense workers! It is unbearable that young citizens make themselves available for this service and earn less than someone who receives the minimum guarantee. It's not acceptable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Doskozil, work to increase the defense budget to at least 1 percent of the gross domestic product in a first step! Do you change what you said to us in your words, because we no longer have time, Minister of State? You can't wait for advice and you can't wait for your party president to knock your shoulder. Mr Federal Minister, this Republic and Europe are burning. Do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22697	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22718	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! On the one hand, it is important to thank Rudi Hundstorfer, who has done excellent work. To Mr Hagen's address again: The Minister for Social Affairs is the one who takes up the people who fall out of the economy and therefore tries to catch them in unemployment. The Minister of Economic Affairs would be the one who should see that people remain in the economy, so the Minister of Social Affairs is already the one who takes care of them and takes care of them. - Just for explanation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] A warm welcome to our new Minister! Welcome, Hans Peter Doskozil! He has proved, as a national police commander, by humanity, by eye-to-eye and by his organizational skill, that he had grown this task. He will be a very good team player in the future. We have been in the government programme, we need a “performance federal army as part of an efficient national and European security association”. Together with the police, he will be able to carry out the registration of refugees with the state defense. I am sure that he will carry out this just as humanitarianly and with the rule of law that is required, and wish him the very best. I come to Minister Alois Stöger, we have a lot to do with consumer protection. Minister Rudi Hundstorfer, for example, has already reached the base account. We must, however, continue to work there in the financial field. It is a question of renegotiating with the Minister of Justice to ensure that some of the fines are properly tied to the CCI. There will be an additional possibility of financing. I hope you're going to work for it, too. I can tell you that we had a fractional parliamentary survey yesterday, in the context of which we devoted ourselves to the subject of sustainable life and discussed the private bankruptcy once again. I am actually – of course also very important – about these 9,000 people who are in private bankruptcy. But what is even more dramatic is that 200 000 people, women, men living here in Austria are unable to get into this private bankruptcy. I hope that the EIA will then also give its approval to the fact that we will continue to work here. At the last meetings, there was a gentle agreement to simply further develop this. It can't be your goal that two thirds of those who don't get into private bankruptcy – not only private people, they're also individual entrepreneurs – it can't be your economic intention to leave these people on the side simply if they've failed. Unfortunately, there is not the affinity in us that we say, stumbled, fallen, rehearsed, continue. Unfortunately, we do not yet have this affinity. But we're going to work on it. There should also be a second chance for everyone. That is what I hope for if we are going to get back to these issues. So there are many new challenges. I'm sure we'll screw up the sleeves and continue to work on them quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22782	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22803	Mr President. Ministers and ministers! I do not want to lose confidence, but the picture behind me is not necessarily confident. It is relatively well represented by the SPÖ government, but on the right hand I am missing some ministers. [[pointing to empty places of the ÖVP ministers on the government bank]] If it is the picture that we now have – exactly as a closed government behind me – then at least I do not want to lose confidence. [[Abg. Brosz: Closed picture!]] I hope you will face the new times more courageously than with this picture. Part of the mood was also that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, I am sorry to have found only 2 minutes per new Minister – in this case only the male form. I think that's a little bit of a deal. After all, we're dealing with three new ministers in three, I think I'd be doing very important departments. But now to the resort that concerns me most, namely the social resort. Welcome, Minister of Social Affairs! Minister Stöger as Minister of Social Affairs, you have my support, just as she has had Minister Hundstorfer in recent years. I would also like to thank you for the dialogue that has always existed. I hope that this dialogue will continue with us. However, I also imagine a very courageous new social minister. Yes, brave, because we need a courageous Social Minister. We are facing very, very big responsibilities. Unfortunately, only a few of the major challenges we face have been addressed. Yes, migration is one, but it is not the only one, because the challenges of the working world that exist are not only immigration, but also the fact that we face new technologies, that we are facing an end-of-the-art economic growth that is happening to us, and that we are facing huge problems here, which are not just immigration. In that respect, I would like to see a more serious, broader debate, which is to make social peace policy in this country in the future. This begins not only with immigration, but also with the fact that there is social justice, that one closes the line between the poor and the rich, and that one does not participate in debates that are increasingly coming from the right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's where I come back to my previous speakers from the ÖVP. Unfortunately, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka is not present now. But I can... [[Abg. Schönegger: We tell him!]] – Please, that would be quite nice, so from Steirer to Steirerin, where I do not necessarily value it, and in this case not at all. In this case, I would just like to point out that I am very surprised that you are proud to regulate the minimum level of protection in Upper Austria in a way before it is at all uniformly clarified that you agree that where the social network has to be most dense, you will actually allow cuts that are more than worrying; which are not only worrying but EU-law – and I wonder where the EU Party of ÖVP is in this context – and are concerned about family law. I want to know how you handle this when it comes to families with more than four people who have to live on this money. [[Abg. Wöginger: And who cares about normal income?]] Yes, all Austrians are interested! This concerns a lot of Austrians and not just the asylum seekers, to whom you are now obviously putting off all the problems. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last thing I'm asking myself: How is that compatible with your Christian-social conscience? Yes, I wonder! I see no longer any compatibility between the EIA and what it is doing in terms of social policy and, in particular, in relation to minimum security. [[Abg. Wögerer: Ah so, you have to...!]] Yes, explain this to the Austrian families! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They contribute to the increasing scarcity between the poor and the rich, that you will be inflaming a debate of envy that comes from here, but whether the fire continues or not, that is in your responsibility. [[pointing to the series of FPÖs]] [[pointing to the series of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Where, please, do you live? Refusal of reality!]] You think you're in the middle, but you've been rowing into the right edge for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22933	Mr Mag. Schönegger is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e22954	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government, in particular Mr New Minister for Defence, I should first of all like to congratulate you very warmly on behalf of the ÖVP Parliamentary Club on your appointment, yes, you can say, also on your new major professional challenge. Mr Minister, you have the honour, the responsibility, yes, I say, even the privilege of presiding over an incredibly exciting and probably most important ministry in these days. Don't be discouraged by the – let's call it that – changing history of your predecessors, but stay courageous, accept the challenge for this important office and for the Republic such an important office with courage and determination! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is what it takes, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen: Courage and determination in action for a functioning national defence, after all, the strategic reserve of action of our Republic. Much has not happened in this area in recent years as it would have been necessary. Much has not been done as the thousands of men and women in uniforms, who have been in the service of national defence, deserved their service. It was partly started to crush valuable structures, to scrape weapons and equipment, in short, the necessary motivation of the force was not exactly stimulated. Mr Doskozil, correct this path, and I can assure you that Parliament – I am just saying: joint motion for a resolution from all parties – will really support you in this political turnaround. If the path is not changed in the various areas, the German army will have lost its capacity dramatically by 2020 at the latest. If a course is not quickly corrected, staff will either leave or be no longer recruitable, and the performance will be very far away in a few years from what the federal constitution grants and demands of the federal army. It is therefore important to prevent all of this now and to act quickly. Mr Minister, if you look around in Parliament and look in the ranks, you see above all in the faces of the Members concerned with security policy and defence – Mr Pendl, Mr Pilz, Mr Hagen is not here right now – hope and confidence – I think that you are right in the way your first speech has shown here! You have demonstrated your qualities as crisis manager in the summer. I hope that the German army does not need a crisis manager permanently, but rather a minister who makes well-prepared decisions – and is well-prepared to be prepared by the General Staff, because that is the task of the General Staff: to prepare. The political decision lies with you, lies with us. You have shown impressively that you, Mr Minister, are quite ready to make course corrections. With your charge to extend the ground defense service, you have actually punished all those military opponents who were against it at the time, and today say quite clearly, yes, we need the military duty. For this and for this courage I thank you now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion: Minister-in-Office of the Council. In the ‘ZIB 24’ in November, it was already said that it was very important to maintain a reasonable relationship with the population. ==References== In November, something like a ceiling is required. The upper limit is the upper limit and remains the upper limit, and it will also be your task as Minister of Defence to ensure it. In this sense I say, hopefully and joyfully to look at this good cooperation long live the Austrian German army! [[Abg. Pendl: To the future!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23012	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23035	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Appreciated viewers on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens that last so long! [[The speaker shall present a board on the speaker’s desk, on which the SPÖ logo and the inscription “The Pension” are shown; however, the label “The Pension” is not visible as it is covered by a wooden edge.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: There you can only see “SPÖ”! I'd do that away!]] As social spokesperson of NEOS, I am of course primarily referring to the new appointment of the Minister of Social Affairs. Mr Minister, you take on great responsibility. They take on all the pride of SPÖ – 2.3 million pensioners, good income, high life expectancy, low retirement age “SPÖ. [[pointing to the table]] The pension.’ [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Hold it up, you can't see it!]] [[The speaker keeps the panel up.]] The OECD has looked at the Austrian pension system, has looked at what we are delivering. [[Abg. Mr Loacker, what's on it?]] The International Monetary Fund and the EU Commission have considered this. [[The speaker keeps the panel up again.]] – I think that she also sees Mr Schopf, who absolutely wants to see her. All the outsiders who have looked at our pension system have concluded that this pension system is scrapping: 11 billion € federal grant a year, additional 9 billion for official pensions – no budget posts are growing faster, half a billion is added every year. Earlypensionitis shaves. Women are pushed out of work early, with a low retirement age, the contributors tend to be less in relation to pensioners and pensioners who become more. Yes, the SPÖ is going with the pension system like VW with the exhaust gas scandal. [[The speaker presents a panel on the speaker’s desk, on which the VW logo and the “The Car” label are shown; the label “The Car” is not visible, however, because it is covered by a wooden edge.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You can't see that either!]] [[Abg. Mr Loacker, what's down there, please?]] The figures do not comply with a review. The values do not fit. Statistics are beautiful. You expect the retirement age to rise artificially, and what your predecessor has always told us, Mr Stöger, does not stand up to an objective view. Yes, Rudi Hundstorfer, the Martin Wintergrain of the Austrian pension system, has now gone off board, and you are now the Matthias Müller of the Austrian pension system. You have to go and apologize to the insured – for the wrong figures that have always been presented to us, for the beautiful information you always make, for the wrong figures that your predecessor has always served us. You need to rebuild the system. Matthias Müller says it needs a cultural change at VW, towards more honesty. – Yes, and this cultural change needs to be done in the Austrian pension system. You have to tell people honestly: People, with 59 on average to go to bed, can't do that anymore! Longer living is good and right, but always living longer and no longer paying contributions, that is no longer possible, and special rights for officials, even that is no longer possible! It is a recovery action announced, a recovery action for luxury pensions, a recovery action for all the money you put the “great animals” in the throat at the expense of the small taxpayers, a recovery action for the Chamber of Workers’ pensions, for pensions in the health insurance funds, in the pension insurance institution, at the National Bank and anywhere else. The Court of Auditors says that we are leaving there 1 billion savings potential. This was no matter what the Rudi Hundstorfer “winter grain” – just as it didn’t matter to him that the ASVG insurers had the pension account from the year 1955 and the officials only from the year 1976. You, Mr Minister, are responsible today for rehabilitating a scrapping pension system and bringing it to the fore. Many customers have lost confidence in VW, and many citizens have lost confidence in the pension system, and only because now Alois Stöger aka Matthias Müller stands instead of Rudi Hundstorfer “Winterkorn”, therefore believes – analogous to VW – no one in the pension system. Your job, Minister, is huge, but no one trusts in the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23165	Mr Stöger has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23187	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators here and in front of the TV screens! I am one who likes to accept challenges, especially when it comes to doing work as a social minister. I will deal with this task with dedication and full force. It will not be easy, but I do this task with respect, and I look forward to it. I say goodbye to the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, which I was allowed to lead for a year and a half. Let me draw a brief summary: The BMVIT is the Ministry of Networks, the life veins of Austria. We have the networks road, rail, water, air and broadband, so people are connected to each other as well as the people with their work as well as the economy with their markets. Here the course for the country of Austria is set, and in the last one and a half years there has been a lot of success: The development programme of the rail and the road, the technology focus of Industry 4.0, and we also fixed broadband development, the programmes are out. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: (a hand with thumb pointing upwards) Super! 1a!]] BMVIT is also an economic and job engine in Austria. We have provided €25 billion for the coming years and will thus secure jobs, and precisely these investments will also benefit me as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in the future, and we already realize that this is an important task. I wish my successor in the Gerald Klug resort all the best and good luck! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the areas of work and social affairs are the heartpieces of the Federal Government, I even say, the entire policy, and there is not only the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Economic Affairs or the AMS. Policymakers of all political parties are required to cooperate. That's what it's all about, because that's what it's about: Do I get a job, a salary I can live from? Do I have a social security if I need it? And that's also the question: Will I get a pension at age from which my family and I can live? You know me: I'm someone who's putting the joint before the dividing end. I'm looking for the conversation. I'm trying to get all those responsible at a table. And I want to continue this as a Minister of Social Affairs. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support you. We will not be able to improve everything from one day to the next, but if we want to achieve something, we must do it together, and that will only be done together. We are in a challenging situation with high unemployment and a steady economy, and precisely in such a time, people expect solutions. For me as a Social Minister, this means that we have to get the number of unemployed back on track. Unemployment is a personal one, an economic one, but also a social disaster, and for me it is an active, thoughtful and complex labour market policy. Many people are also unsure whether they can live at the age of their pension. People have a right to honest answers, and the honest answer is: Yes, years of birth are coming to retirement age in the next few years. And an honest answer also means: Yes, we have been able to increase the retirement age, people stay in work longer. There will always be a viable pension for the older generation. The payment process – we just celebrated ASVG for 60 years – has been successful in Austria for 60 years; people have received their pensions. This has also been shown during the 2008 financial crisis: The payment procedure was safe, but the private pension funds have all lost their value. That is why I say yes to the generation-funded charging process and yes to a material and multifaceted debate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we should set common goals. In any case, the goal cannot be to cut down blindly, because cuts do not help people or the economy. The goal must be to create more jobs – and that you can also live by this work. What we don't want is the Working Poor, who needs two or more jobs to get themselves and their families to run. The aim must be for all young people to have a good training place. I would like to thank Mr Rudi Hundstorfer, who sent the training guarantee submitted in Austria a few days ago for the review. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The aim must also be that no one in old age suffers from poverty, so that we continue to have a functioning and secure pension system. The aim must be for our social state to be borne by all and to work if you need it. That's what my predecessor Rudi Hundstorfer always had in mind. I would also like to thank him again at this point today. As a Social Minister, Rudi Hundstorfer has done excellent work and has given me a dedicated, motivated and well-positioned house, and I will, I can assure you, work very closely on these things, I will continue this path to provide people with security, I will fight for every job and support people if they need help. My ministry is called the Social Ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23249	Next, Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23271	Mr President. Highly esteemed Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, has already mentioned: In recent years and months, Austria has made a huge step forward, especially in the field of transport and infrastructure, and significant progress has been made in the field of public transport. This can be seen only in the development of the environmentally friendly rail, which has been so successful in recent years and will continue with vehemence in the coming years. The further roadmap for the next few years is clear: By 2021, around €3 billion, €14.6 billion in total, will be invested in the development and modernisation of the rail network every year. However, it is not only invested in the so-called large axes and major projects, such as the extension of the South Railway or the West Railway, but also numerous smaller projects have been started or started in recent years. All these measures provide growth and employment. The development of rail alone will create 30 000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria has become number one in the European Union. What makes me particularly happy: The tomorrow “Kurier” is entitled: “Open to cars. 700,000 : 680.000” – thus for the first time more annual tickets than initial registrations for cars. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the great success of this infrastructure policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, the issue of road and related transport safety must not be forgotten either. Unfortunately, in Austria we had to complain for the first time again of more road traffic deaths for the first time than was the case in previous years. All the more important it is to force targeted measures for risk groups, such as motorcyclists. Ladies and gentlemen, not to complain of the vision of Zero, no more dead in road traffic, remains our primary goal. As chairman of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee, I would like to thank you for the truly exemplary cooperation. During the one and a half years of our cooperation, we were able to implement many important projects: from the strengthening of passenger rights to the further expansion of the infrastructure to the Telekom package, many things have been implemented. Mr Mag. Smart, the area of transport and infrastructure is a big, but, as I mean, particularly exciting and diverse subject field. We still have a lot to do in the next few weeks and months. The extension of the Bundesbahn and the railway infrastructure as well as the railway stations must continue. It is also important to implement gaps in the Austrian road system, including in particular the construction of the S34. The waterway must continue to be attracted. will be activated and the expansion of the Danube east of Vienna will progress rapidly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] We need, ladies and gentlemen, an aviation policy which puts Vienna Airport at the centre of aviation policy. Mr Klug, I am really looking forward to good cooperation with the Parliamentary Transport Committee on your part. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, infrastructure policy must also be in the coming years to create jobs and to improve the quality of life of all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23347	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23368	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Bundeskanzler, quite honestly, as a political competitor, I can thank you for the occupation of the social resort, which you did well to do, but as a citizen I must express my concern after I heard the Minister's speech. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Social Minister Stöger, you are here at your address in self- praise, which is great achievements You did not all of them at BMVIT – I don't want to judge that, I can't judge that either – and then you talk about pensions. You completely hide the problems you now have as a Social Minister. We have nearly 500 000 unemployed people in Austria, rising upward. – You did not say a word about this! We have a million people in this republic at risk of poverty.– You didn't say a word about that! The care area is still a huge construction site. – You didn’t even feel the touch of a word on care! Your resort consists not only of the pension problem, which is certainly a very large one, but also of the working, social and consumer protection resort you have taken over, is a huge resort, where it is natural to solve the challenges of time. You can only maintain the pension system and the social system if you stabilise the labour market if people are in employment. If you make a proper economic policy and a proper labour market policy, then social policy and, of course, pension policy will arise on its own, but this issue alone is too little, Mr Federal Minister, you must understand! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have, of course, taken over a difficult place, which is no question at all, and I also do not know exactly whether you are the appropriate man, if I only consider which construction sites you left in the health resort at the time. That's what we're shivering about today. Example: the most murky Elga start. [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, calm down again! To this day, Elga is in a very few hospitals in the sample galopp. Or: Your populism with the free gears that still do not exist. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course you also have to see the mistakes, and that means: Of course, construction sites have been left behind there, quite massive. And now this huge place where we face the biggest challenges of the Second Republic! We have the highest unemployment rate. What's yours? - You're talking about pensions! Your predecessor, Mr Federal Minister, may not have made it quite easy for you, but he will probably be the one who has tried to get into history as the last one who has tried very hard, but who has nevertheless been the Minister of Social Degradation. Twice in the term of office of Minister Hundstorfer the access to the care allowance has been made more difficult. Twice! Although he said that no one is being trained down, of course people have fallen out of the system, of course. – All of this you would have to correct. The loss of care fees for these persons in recent years is 30 percent. That is, people now have much less real care money than they did a few years ago. – All the challenges you will have to face! For the labour market – that is not often enough to say – we have set up numerous initiatives, because – and I am now with my colleague Schwentner – let us ignore the migration current of the last few months – we already have problems on our own because of what has happened before, regardless of the fact that now at least 30 000 asylum seekers are entering the labour market in this year and in the coming years in addition, problems, including through the opening of the east. There is nothing to do with the fact that social democrats are producing and praising what has not happened. It may already be that one or another has been tried to defuse and correct, but we have, for example, a wage and social dumping law which has been decided by your votes – we have not voted in favour, and that for good reason – which you cannot execute because You don't even have the civil service for this because the financial police don't have the personnel to execute this law at all. And that's exactly the insanity that we blamed you back then. They pass laws and leave the execution to another place that cannot or does not want to or does not have the necessary resources for it. This is the problem here, which is also the reason why we have wage and social dumping, and that is also one of the reasons why there is a real wage loss. If you make yourself here today and say it's all great, because people are all paid according to collective agreement, I'll tell you: Thank God we still have the collective agreements! But what was 20 years ago? – As no one has earned by collective agreement, the salaries were far above the collective contracts, and that is, the people feel these income losses. Of course, this pressure on the labour market is also responsible, for example, through the opening of the East in the construction industry, but you refuse to speak with some abstract excuses like, there is an EU law – which, by the way, you break every day as a federal government; I have already told you this several times – to our proposal. We have said that we are making the sectoral closure of the labour market, for example in the construction sector, especially if we are from the Your predecessor's replies know that 16 000 Austrians have lost their jobs in the construction industry in the last five years and that 18 000 people from Eastern Europe have received a job in the same period! This bill simply can't go up like that, so it's necessary to finally look a little beyond the edge of the plate and not always resort to anything. I know, it is unpleasant for you to hear all this now, it is much more fun for you to murmur behind me with the Federal Chancellor and talk about what you will eat next Sunday, but in reality, Federal Minister, you are employed to ensure that you finally ensure that something happens on this Austrian labour market at last. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a subject that will probably be a little more on us in the next few weeks and months, which has been a little bit more in recent days, especially in the media; we have already made a request to your predecessor in December. It is about the Bank-Austria-Pensionsdeal, namely that part of the Bank-Austria employees, the former central savings bank employees, have been transferred to the ASVG. For those affected, this means that they now receive less pension, for the PVA, the pension insurance institution, that means that it has a cost increase of € 700 million. You might now ask yourself the question: Who is the benefit of this deal? – It is not public at all, nor is it the individual interested parties. So where are the beneficiaries? It would be too cheap to say that it is the UniCredit alone, therefore I believe it will be necessary for Parliament to be informed about this deal too. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] There are already squats from the roof that of course one of the biggest beneficiaries is the city of Vienna, which now saves itself pension insurance in a three-digit million height via the AVZ Foundation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23511	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23634	Next speaker: Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23655	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank Federal Minister Alois Stöger and his employees in the BMVIT for the good constructive and objective cooperation not only within the Transport Committee on Transport, but also express the hope that as a new Social Minister we will also have a good partner for the forthcoming reforms, for example in the context of minimum security or in the challenges of labour market policy. Thank you very much, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The new Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, Mr Gerald Klug, is also facing major challenges. Mr. Federal Minister, you have a budget of about €3.8 billion, which is one of the largest budget items in the federal budget. You now have an important economic and future location to lead, and I would like to ask you at this point to develop this also according to economic criteria. About € 2 billion is spent annually on the railway infrastructure. We are also in principle committed to these important infrastructure projects, since they are also crucial for the economic location and mobility needs of Austrians, but we will have to continue to think about how we will finance these projects in the future, so that we do not leave any even greater debt to the next generations. That's what it's all about being creative. Efficiency increases and further cost reductions in these areas can and must bring savings to millions. Other important current points – Mr Heinzl has already mentioned them in part – are, among other things, road safety – here we have to get the trend back in the right direction; a novel of the KFG is already on the table, keyword distraction at the wheel – but other road construction projects, such as the Lobautunnel, should also get under way. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Other important future projects such as research and development and the creation of the appropriate framework conditions for self-driving cars, the promotion of electromobility, support for the logistics location as an important economic factor or the further development of the aeronautical location are just a few key points and challenges to be addressed together. Mr Minister, we are ready to work with you for this location for the Austrians, especially for the jobs we need, and I hope that this will work in a similar way to your predecessor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23710	Now Mr. Federal Minister Mag has himself. Smartly reported. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23731	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated colleagues from the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of the opportunity today and thank you very much first of all – thank you all who have accompanied me for almost three years in the field of security policy, in the field of national defence, but also in the field of sports. I would like to say quite openly and directly that these have been among my most exciting but also most instructive years in my life. I would like to express my express thanks to the speakers of all the parliamentary parties, and I would like to express my express thanks to all the sports speakers of the parties, even though the discussion was sometimes very hard. Honourable Members! On this occasion, however, I would also like to thank all the soldiers of our Republic very much for their commitment and commitment in the interests of national defence and in the interest of the security of our Republic and would like to convey this thanks to Deputy Chief General Lieutenant Bair. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, I would like to thank you very politely, but we will see each other at our internal court in the morning. [[towards gallery]] I would like to express my thanks to the respect, recognition and appreciation for our soldiers, in particular for the efforts made by the various peace missions abroad – we have also started many new ones, with support from Parliament – but also for the efforts in domestic disaster aid, or now in the recent past, for the use at the border. But I also thank all the civil servants in the department. I am pleased that I have the opportunity to thank also the officials in the field of sports, but also our athletes, the ambassadors of Austria, are beyond the boundaries. If I may, I might want to put it this way: Dear Mr. President-in-Office, dear Hans Peter, you take over an excellently positioned house, and I wish you a lot of strength and endurance in your new task! Ladies and gentlemen, although there is a little pain in it, I do not wish to doubt that I am also taking over the new challenge and the new task with a lot of passion and commitment. If perhaps some Members study my CV more precisely on occasion, they will probably say: Well, now he returns to his roots more strongly! I also find this wording very, very interesting; it goes back to 1984. My predecessor, Federal Minister Alois Stöger, made it so clear in the recent past that I would like to join 100 percent of this wording: The Ministry of Infrastructure is an important player for Austria's industrial location. In this context, I should just like to point out one aspect: Over the next five years, we invest €24 billion in road, rail, infrastructure, broadband, research and development – €24 billion in a key area where every single euro is an investment by the state to secure the industrial location, to secure the Austrian economy, as well as to ensure mobility for the population, but ultimately also guarantees the life lines for the functioning of an economy at Austria's site. For the rounding and because it is so important to say it in terms of research and development: In the next few years, we will expand the fiber optic lines, the broadband, the Internet. My goal is that we should ultimately reach high speed Internet access for all levels of population across the country. I am looking forward to it because I know that it is important for the State to make a significant contribution to this necessary infrastructure to the functioning of the industrial site, and because I am firmly convinced that we can only secure the prosperity achieved in Austria in time. Last but not least: Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to give all Members a hand and look forward to a good cooperation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23792	Mr Willi has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23816	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, especially the new ministers and the two others in new places! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with you, Minister of Defence Doskozil. I liked what you said, namely, the motto of your work loud humanistic and rule of law, and I may also recommend: If you hang this motto, these two slogans of your work in your office on the wall – hang “humanist” a little higher! In the direction of the liberal Members who are so concerned that we do not do so with the refugees who come to our country, I can tell a little story: [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Right, Mr. Cot! Rightly, we're worried!]] My mother comes from a small community in East Tyrol, from Anras in East Tyrol. After World War II, this small community had about 1,000 inhabitants. Subject to Tito, who has established a communist regime in Yugoslavia, many refugees were then drawn north, and this small community – after World War II, when there was nothing to eat – took up 100 refugees, 10 percent measured by the population. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But these were other refugees!]] You might know Anras, you know the area there. [[in the direction of the Abg. Peter Worm]] [[Abg. Peter Worm: Yes!]] There the people have “created ” 10 percent of the resident population. And then I often wonder, What kind of society are we, where suddenly it is said: Everything's not going any more?- Oh, my God! We're overwhelmed! - I'm just saying: These people in Anras really kept the word humanistic. They have seen above all the people who have come across the border. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But these were other refugees!]] [[Abg. Darmann: That's where Tyrolean Tyroleans recorded!]] Mr Stöger, I thank you for your cooperation. I would have decided a lot differently – but you know that anyway – but you were always a very attentive and good listener and you were always open to arguments. I liked this very target-oriented working style. – I wish you all the best for the new resort. And now to you, Minister Klug: I won't tell you a secret if I say you were a pretty unhappy defense minister. As a Tyrolean MP, I am still hanging that you have dissolved the only helicopter support point in Western Austria, in Vomp. I am also a musician, and I am extremely hurt by military music because I find that there have been many good musicians who work in various functions in Austria. But I also remember that thanks to the initiative of Peter Pilz, you had a field kitchen brought to the border in the field and there the army was able to make a very good commitment. But you're still a man lucky: You'll get a second chance. You take over a very large, very important place, and I'm looking for and ask you: Take advantage of your second chance! The Ministry of Infrastructure – you have already made this sound in your speech – has many possibilities and provides important infrastructure in the area of road, rail, shipping, aviation, telecom networks and so on. Only: Infrastructure is a necessary but not sufficient requirement for things to work. And you are the head of a department, namely transport, where I have to say, as a transport speaker, that the environment is an important concern: Transport is the environmental sinister number one. 45 percent of greenhouse gases come from traffic, a slightly larger part of which comes from passenger transport and the slightly smaller part of truck traffic – and you have it in your hand to intervene here! Because the electromobility was addressed: The largest and most important electric vehicle is and remains the train, the train. We are currently investing huge sums in the expansion of the railway – but that is primarily in long-distance transport. If you do not manage that this expensive infrastructure will also be used to shift goods from road to rail, then we have built a lot of infrastructure, but we do not use it. It is your job and your great opportunity to make a big contribution to environmental protection. I would like to support you. My speaking time is almost over – in fact it is over – and that is why it concludes: Mr. Minister, a lot of work is waiting for you. I would be glad if you could see your resort primarily from the point of view of those who are on the road every day – hundreds of thousands who are travelling with the public transports on the bus and train – that you are also on the road as often as possible instead of using the service car in Vienna with the annual map in public. It is also good for the image to be seen in public transport. I would be pleased if we could meet once in the Vienna tram or in an ÖBB train and exchange views. - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23935	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e23957	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to start my speech now with a positive review of the technology policy in Austria, the innovation policy that has marked BMVIT significantly in the past, as I believe, where we could also discuss in detail the many, many successful individual measures that have led to the fact that we in Austria, especially in this central future field, have gained research, technology and innovation in recent years – but I would also like to take a brief look at the speech by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein. You have now considered in great detail what everything in the Federal Government works and what does not work: They have addressed the field of technology policy, economic policy, social policy, health policy. – For all these areas you have had great advice, have said what everything doesn’t work, and you have spoken of government responsibility. I am doing a little hard to accept this right now, because if you had had this wisdom a few years ago, you could have done this to your Carinthian colleagues, your current Federal Councillor Gerhard Dörfler, who is responsible for the fact that Carinthia still has billions of heavy liabilities today, such as a Damocles sword, that Carinthia does not know how it goes on, that Carinthia is close to insolvency. – It is really cynical if you give good advice here, but these advices have been avoided in the past. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] [[Abg. Darmann: Who then had the overall responsibility for nationalization? The Federal Chancellor sitting behind you! You sit in the investigation committee and don't listen!]] It is quite exciting that Gernot Darmann is speaking and is now discussing the nationalization and complaining about it. – In the Carinthian Landtag, you called the nationalization a rescue package. The FPÖ in Carinthia was very, very proud of what happened. That is, the liberals have been looking away in Carinthia for years. But that's all that says! It's so cynical now! The fact that we are dealing with billions of heavy liabilities is that there are, in fact, the speculators, that is not a problem, that we are not talking about, but then saving ourselves in the field of social, pension, health, then there are the proposals. [[Abg. Darmann: Has Mr. Landeshuptmann voted in favour?! Did Mr. Landesführer vote in favour of the SPÖ Kaiser?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] The poorest will then pay for the billions that have been lowered at the hypo. We're all busy with these cleanups now. – I would expect you to just say “Apologies!” and not give good advice here in the truth of the Federal Government’s teaching. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Darmann: What are you doing in the investigation committee if you obviously don't listen?]] Mr. Col., I believe – those who were not present can read this in the newspapers too – that it was the former head of state, Gerhard Dörfler, who asked: What did you actually do 20 days before the emergency nationalization, to which you went then?, quite frankly said: Yes, actually, as good as nothing at all! - You could have prepared yourself. It would have been great if Carinthia had also had a strategy. He didn't get the idea that you could do anything. [[Call the SPÖ: Unbelievable!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] So there is a certain responsibility for politics as well. All I ask is that the Freedom Party should not now overtly openly distribute school notes here and then place demands in the room that we should really save on the most socially weak. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A very central area – in order to get to research and technology policy – that we have launched in Austria is precisely this future area of broadband promotion, broadband development. This broadband billion will ensure that there is also a right of opportunity between city and country. These are very important options for the future. With regard to these paths that have been taken in the past, I hope that they will continue in this form. Industry 4.0 is a huge topic, and also here in the House, in Parliament, where we discuss it intensively in the Research Committee, where there are also working groups, together with experts from outside. I believe that we in Austria are on a very good path, and wish all of us exciting discussions in this area. Unfortunately, one is the cleanup work of the past, but the other one I have just mentioned is really future areas, and there is a common need to invest all the strength for the future in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24066	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Darmann in word. . Mr deputies, please begin with the case to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24109	Mr President. The President-in-Office of the Council is aware of the fact that one hour can now be properly corrected. I'm going to try and take a short look.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24124	You can't get more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24139	Thank you, Mr President, I am also aware of this. Mr Kucher has here in recognition of the truth and the facts that the country of Carinthia would not have prepared itself for this close nationalization in the days before the nationalization weekend. The fact is – and this is the truth – that the country of Carinthia has repeatedly approached the Federal Government with the request for information to prepare for this weekend. [[Abg. Jarolim:... actual correction!]] [[Abg. That is not an actual correction, Mr President.]] This information was refused because the Federal Government alone wanted to negotiate with Bavaria under the overall responsibility of the Federal Chancellor Faymann. - Thank you. That was the correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24243	Mr Hable has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24280	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Citizens' values! Back to the state defense. Mr. Federal Minister Doskozil, perhaps it is appropriate that we have just heard your predecessor, Federal Minister Klug, because as a new Minister of Defence, you are indeed a heavy heritage. The federal army is in a desperate state, the motivation in the federal army is on the ground, and that is not a fate, not an inevitable fate, but the result of years and decades of red and black politics: red and black politics, which has tried nothing less than to save the federal army broken – and this is extremely successful. In the event of reception talks, thanks to the soldiers for their service are always heard, but in the back of each occasion the budget will be further reduced, the following means will be deleted, as we have seen it last but not least under your predecessor Minister Klug: Although the Bundesheer-Budget is already on a record-minus level, there is a new 200 million-€ package that you, Minister Klug, have accepted. – I say quite honestly that the German army has truly earned something better, so I welcome this ministerial change. The question I ask myself – and probably many people in this country too – is, however, whether it will be better now, with the new Federal Minister. Mr. Federal Minister Doskozil, I have the hope that this is so, but some of your public statements are also thoughtful. We have heard a lot about you so far about the refugee crisis, but surprisingly little about the German army. It was also to be read that you want the federal army to convert the Ministry of Defence into a security ministry. – What that means is not quite clear to me either. I hope it doesn't mean that you actually wanted to have the job of the Minister of the Interior and now, so to speak, went to the Ministry of Defence as a second choice. But so that there are no misunderstandings here, I would like to remind you of the task of the Federal Force: According to the Federal Constitution, the task is – and that is, of course, also Its scale as a Federal Minister – simply military state defense. I would also like to stress this and therefore also say what does not fall under it, which does not belong to it: This does not include the regular use of basic defenses to plan for the shipists. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Yes, exactly!]] This does not include the fact that the federal army now has to go out regularly to operate gulash guns or set up tents. There are civil organizations to do this; you don't need people who are trained in the weapon. It is also not the task of the Ministry of Defence, as we have seen in recent weeks, to organise a competition with the Ministry of the Interior, who can build the most beautiful and longest fence. This also does not fall within the area of national defence. What this debate about the refugee crisis – if at all – plays a role for the German army is the use of assistance if the executive is no longer sufficient for border security. But that already brings me to the heart of the case concerning the federal army: Are the resources enough? Are the resources only sufficient for assistance at the border? – And the answer is: rather not! It is very unlikely that the Austrian federal army could again vote such an assistance as in the Burgenland – not the present forces, nor if you use the militia to do so. Why is that so? – Not because the soldiers did not want to, but because the German army has been broken down for years and decades because the resources were kept from him to his task – for his task transferred by the federal constitution! – to fulfil it. That is why we now need a new Federal Minister, a new national defence policy. We need a Federal Minister, who is particularly concerned about this and who demands more resources for the German army, who does not simply accept any savings package that is sent to him from the Ministry of Finance with head nicks. We need a Federal Minister who stands as the Federal Army, who is behind the German army, we need a Federal Minister, who is also clear that we need a common European foreign and defence policy, and who becomes active in this respect, who is driving it forward. We need such a Minister of Defence, Mr. Federal Minister. That's my hope, that's my expectation, and that's what I want to measure you. This will also be measured by many people in this country. I wish you all the best for this, and I hope you will not be disappointed by our expectations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24330	Mrs Himmelbauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24351	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am pleased that the topic of digitalization has also taken on a higher priority in the Federal Government since the last year. Harald Mahrer and Sonja Steßl started to create a digital roadmap as early as the summer of 2015, and it will be important that this strategic orientation and the measures contained therein be taken on 18 December 2015. They will be presented on February, also in a broad-based process. As a Young People's Party, we only presented our ideas and measures for a digital Austria on Monday to bring us precisely into such a process, because digital change is an issue that concerns us in all areas of life. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] It is up to us whether we are using the opportunities of digitization and whether we are mastering the challenges, whether in order to make the policy more modern, in the administration or in the offers for citizens, whether it be in the use of modern technologies and in the provision of digital skills in teaching, or also in the design of the working world, in order to make them more modern through the possibilities of the Home Office, through cooperation with technology, or – as Minister Stöger has already mentioned – also with the modernisation of the economy by, for example, Industry 4.0. Why am I addressing that? . I am addressing all of this, because, of course, it also needs a suitable basis, a broadband supply throughout Austria. I am pleased that Mr Klug has already given such a high priority to this issue in his speech, because it is important to continue a consistent path in broadband services in Austria. As far as rural areas are concerned, this requires access, it also needs data highways to enable the population to offer our citizens the opportunities for digitisation. A second major and important point is research and innovation. As ministers, they have a major budget item on research and innovation. Our raw material in this country is man, his innovative power, research and development in the company, at our universities, at our FHs and our institutes. You're the guarantee that we're at the front of the global race. This requires our joint effort to get from the Innovation Followers to the Innovation Leaders. I think we're on the right track. This is what we see when we look at the research rate, but also when we look at the last rankings. But I also urge: A standstill means a step back, and that is why I wish for a future-oriented, good and successful cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24397	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24421	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary and in front of the screens! I am currently seeing dynamics in the government, but the dynamics is unfortunately limited to the back of the chair, it is not yet seen in the actions. I would expect to be dynamic there, there is dynamic desirable, but we will only see if it really comes that far, because the Federal Chancellor has already said in advance: The times are a bit difficult, the crisis has not yet been overcome! – It sounds like the head of the Federal Government says: Well, dear Parliament, be careful with your criticism, more was not in it in the performance! I hope that it is not so, I hope that something reasonable really comes out, because in times of difficult budget creations, in times of excessive stress on the external borders, it must not happen that one of the most important resorts we have comes from both the financial side and the equipment on the storage track. Mr. Federal Minister, we have enough construction sites in the entire department, the situation there demands your entire crisis management. Crisis management is not that you do anything that a party secretary says or what is whispered to by trade unions, but crisis management is a real view of reality and a quick meeting of relevant decisions. In this sense, Federal Minister Klug, I do not want to give you the usual days of rest, at least as far as the BMVIT is concerned, but we want you to start immediately, that you make the right decisions immediately and that you take the right steps. Why? – I would also like to make it easier for you to enter their office and show you: Where do we have problems? Let's take a look at the ÖBB! – In principle, the ÖBB as a group are not very poorly positioned. But there are problems in detail. For example, there is still the so-called 0:0 operation, which is the unscrupulous driving. Although your predecessor has addressed something to Mr. Kern in writing, this has not yet been achieved, Mr. Kern is still on the jobless business. He should make himself – or maybe maybe. You see this together – once you look at the Westbahn, they also have something similar to a 0:0 operation, but there it looks quite different. Name: There are much more staff on the train to ensure the safety of passengers and the safety of the staff themselves. Then: Training of the locusts. – I believe that the driver is one of the most important passengers on the train. Mr Hell can certainly remember earlier times, so he knows: The training was a longer process at the time, these people were also active in the shift after training at the station. This has changed: Today they do a short course, after a few weeks they sit in the locomotive. And then, of course, there are problems! And what are the ÖBB doing in the usual manner? – They cover up; they cover up everything there is. They cover it up, for example, when one of these new drivers turns off the braking system, hands over the train, and then there is an accident around a hair – no hair, better said. Who knows? In the ministry, they probably won't know. That's what happened. These aren't little things. Or: heavy alcoholization in service. – It will not combat alcoholization, it will not fight the causes of why people drink themselves in the service. It is only combated that the whole thing is getting out – be that now the incident at Semmering, where one has caught a 1.5-permill driver, whether it be the well-known axle problem, whether it be the Semmering accident, in relation to which the Mr. Kern meant, he wants to complain to me because I claimed that a train was too heavy. Now you can read in the ÖBB internal systems: Both trains were too heavy, not for a little bit, but for 200 tons. The ÖBB system is just one! It goes on: It's still in the air. Her predecessor knows. The company ACG as such is an organisational permanent construction site, and in addition comes the patched regulation with which the private aircraft has made the “air space” – under quotation marks – very small. They're excited. Then they said they'd evaluate it. The ACG has evaluated this, but mainly in the area it concerns itself. Mr. Klug, like your predecessor, you can make yourself extremely popular in aviation if you ask the Minister of Finance to abolish the passenger tax permanently, in such a way that he really does it and not perhaps only announces it. Stay over the street. The ASFINAG is in principle, also financially well positioned. It has only a few important new buildings to realize. Only: A new building is something that is being built, and not something that is announced. Therefore: Stepping through, building – and then repaying debts and not paying dividends! The taxpayer is not happy, but the toll payer is happy if he does not have to pay for dividends, but with his money the debt is really repaid and a good infrastructure is available. Mr Federal Minister, there's a lot to do! The roles in the ministry are relatively clearly divided. For media, the ÖBB and the ASFINAG are responsible for switching the ads, which is holding their case. For you, obviously, only more is left of management if we do not want to fall back in times from 2006 to 2008. Start, decide, and if you really want to be medicated, then you have to cut a bit at your companies, which should start with money something decent and different! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24494	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24515	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all: Mr Doskozil, I should like to congratulate you very warmly in advance and wish you all the best for your new function. I am convinced that we will have very good cooperation in the field of sports. I have the impression that you are taking over a well-ordered house with excellent employees in the sports sector, and that is why I am confident that we will be very, very good at working together in the government. Of course, sports face numerous challenges, such as broadband. I think that there is an opinion here in the House on all the political groups: We need a sufficient range of movement for our children and young people. That is why the “moving children healthy” project in the sports resort is a heart concern. I ask that we continue to do so successfully in this area. Of course, we also have great challenges in top-level sports. We have two major events this year: The one is the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, The other is the European Football Championship in France. I think we should guarantee the best safety for our participating athletes. Furthermore, in the ÖVP, of course, the role model of sport is very important to us, because we want to continue the way: No to violence in sports, but also no to doping in sports! We achieved a lot with the new anti-doping law. I think you have to work on this line. But of course we are also concerned with a no to bet manipulations. Of course, sport is a cross-sectional matter that affects several ministries. Please accept my request. It is that we are trying to network even more efficiently, for example with the Ministry of Health or also with the Ministry of Education when it comes to school and sport when it comes to prevention. I think that even more intensive networking of the ministries would be desirable. For me, a central point, in order to hold up the honorary office in sport, is of course the flat-rate travel compensation, called PRAE. I mean, we should keep these in place so that we can promote the honorary office in sport and that there is no need for bureaucracy in the sports sector either. Finally, I would like to thank you very much, Mr Klug, for your cooperation. I would also like to express my special thanks to two employees of you in the cabinet, to your cabinet chief in the defense department Stefan Kammerhofer and to Marcel Chahrour, responsible for sports. It was an excellent cooperation, whether it be in the committees, be it on matters of content, with you, with your cabinet. So I ask them, when you see them, to deliver that greeting from me. I'd be a bad representative of the Kufstein region if I didn't have a wish for your new resort too. You know, we have a special challenge there as regards the distance traffic from the motorway, which runs through Kufstein or through the surrounding communities. I have a request to you: We should work together to find a solution – with “jointly” I mean federal government, country, but also the municipality of Kufstein and the surrounding communities – so that we can relieve the population there of the currently exaggerating traffic linkage. I think that in the next few days we can certainly have some conversation, and I'm sure you're a maker that we're going to come to a solution in this area. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24571	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24592	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As a green worker speaker, Mr Stöger, I would first like to wish you all the best for your new function, much courage, strength, especially enforcement, to your coalition partner ÖVP, also force enforcement towards the social partners. You'll certainly need that. However, I would also like to say clearly, just as my colleague Schwentner has already announced: When it comes to positive developments in your department, in your task area, we will certainly support you constructively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, we all know that the challenges that we have to face are certainly enormous right now. We are in a phase of massive upheavals on... Different levels. But it is up to us to actively shape these upheavals, not overhaste, but certainly thoughtful, but also speedily. We need to make it active. It's clear: Defendative standstill – whether this standstill is due to inactivity or disunity – only makes it worse in this situation. Mr Stöger, I would like to take this opportunity to give you three heart concerns by me today. For one thing, this is the profound change that our labour market is currently undergoing, through digitization and, on the other hand, the deepening of globalisation into the service sector. These two developments are currently formally eliminating traditional labour and social law. There's a need for new answers. Jobs and jobs will disappear, but many new areas of activity will also be created. It is about controlling these developments and creating new framework conditions: on the one hand, for the protection of workers, but of course also for the Austrian site. My second concern is those young people who have difficulty finding themselves well in the system of school, teaching, employment. You mentioned it yourself: Minister Hundstorfer has made the training compulsory until 18. And I would really ask you to speed up this project now, not only to move forward, but also to use the phase now to improve it, especially as regards the social pedagogical support of these young people. And the third point – and this is very important for the future design of the labour market – is: We have to distribute the paid work differently! It's just not going to go any other way. More and more people want to work, less and less paid work is available. If our welfare state is to remain built on the fact that as many people as possible earn their income from work, then we have to distribute the existing paid work differently. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This, of course, only works by systematically shortening working time on the one hand and of course supporting and accompanying the economy in this process. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, I am sure it will not be easy for you, but I hope – and I also offer – that good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24655	Mrs Schimanek has the provisionally last word on this item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24677	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I will address Mr Klug as the new Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Mr Minister, as a member of the Transport Committee and Tyrolean, I am willing to accept your invitation, to cooperate here and to make constructive proposals. And like colleague Rauch from Kufstein, who is the mayor of his sign at the forthcoming municipal council elections in Kufstein, I will also address my request to you here, which will lift the obligation of vignette until Kufstein Süd. The President smiles. The new Minister for Social Affairs Stöger is behind me, and you, Minister Klug, are now my third minister, in which I am now trying to find an open ear, because this situation is really serious. The situation in Kufstein is really precarious and with very many problems. I will then also give you a little reading to read, so that you know why you need to act quickly here. In this sense I also make a request, because the freedom of the vignette is also possible in your federal state, on the A9. There one has managed to suspend the obligation of vignettes in the short term, and now I very much hope that what works in Styria will also go in Tyrol. Therefore, the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I beg you, act wisely!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24737	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schimanek is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24810	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. First: Debates of the European Parliament Who is in favour of this request? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Lugar, Mag. Darmann, colleagues on the refugee crisis: National shoulder closure for the protection of Austria’. Who's for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament sionsdeals between SPÖ-Vienna and the BMASK under the direction of former Minister Rudolf Hundstorfer. Who's for it? – This, in turn, is the minority. This request is also rejected. Debates of the European Parliament The vote has been taken on this subject. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. Only official votes can be used for the vote. Members are called upon to put their votes in the urns provided. I would ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to vote in favour of 'yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I now ask the author, Mrs Mag. Musiol to start with the name call; Mr Buchmayr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24931	The vote will end. I would ask the House's staff to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the penitentiaries. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e24969	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 152; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 47, No votes: 105. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bush, Brückl, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Doppler; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Haider, Hauser, Hübner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lauss, lights; Maurer, mölzer, mückstein, mühlberghuber, musiol; Pillow, Pirklhuber; smoking John, smoke Walter, Riemer; Honey, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinhauser, Strache; themesl; Walser, Willi, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gamon Claudia Angela, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hagen, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger; Schabhüttl, Schellhorn, Schenk, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmijerschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; Vetter, Vogl; Refusal torpher, Wenninger, Wimmer, Minzig, Wittmann, Wöinger, Wurm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. [[18:45:49]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (763 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing the Federal Law on the Organization, Tasks and Powers of the Police State Protection Act (PStSG) and amending the Security Police Act (988 d.b.) 4. Point Report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Telecommunications Act 2003 (989 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 283/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues, on the evaluation of the existing powers of the institutions of the public security services (990 d. B.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1195/A(E) by Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues on a total monitoring account (991 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1413/A(E) by Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues in relation to the evaluation of fundamental rights-saving methods of education (992 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e25206	We come to points 3 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First word message: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e25239	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, it is due to the massive intervention in the fundamental and freedom rights of our citizens contained in the Police State Protection Act, to deal with the present matter of the Police State Protection Act in all the necessary facts, and to have to explain in a slightly needy role as critic of this State Protection Act what it is all about here. Let me say the following to the honourable Members, who have not yet dealt so much with the matter, but in particular to the citizens who follow this meeting: The starting point is that the task of police state protection is to protect people living in the state territory and the constitutional constitution. So it is also black on white in the explanations on this state protection law. Now you could think, yes, well, there's nothing bad about it, that sounds good and is right. However, if one deals with the instruments which the State Protection Act gives to state protection, then, at the latest then, especially with us as legislators, at least to a certain extent, the alarm bells have to ring. It can't be easy for us to implement the requirements, the wishes, which sometimes also take up legitimate wishes of constitutional protection, uncommented into a law and then allow state protection, equipped with all possibilities, to act in relation to our own population. It's not possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility, and this responsibility is certainly to be established in that there is an enormous tension here, a tension between the possibilities of the instruments granted to the protection of the state in order to protect internal security, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the massive and thereby conditional intervention in the fundamental and freedom rights of our citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This applies in all inconspicuousness, but above all with caution to take account of today's discussions and of the likely subsequent decision-making by SPÖ and ÖVP. We, for our part – and I will further justify this – believe that we should continue the last constructive negotiations. We do not have time to decide on this massive intervention in fundamental and freedom rights. That's supposed to come into force in the summer. We even have one or two months to discuss, and it is not justified by why this state protection law needs to be passed here and now. We are in quite constructive negotiations, and I would like to express my concrete thanks to Mr Amon, to his staff and also to our staff in the club, thank you for the efforts to move forward here too, to work out improvements which, in some cases, can already be found in the present draft. But we have not yet taken out the optimal to really achieve the necessary width in a decision-making process and to be able to say that this State Protection Act is first and foremost an anti-terrorism law and not a civil harassment law. That is exactly what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have already held up in the Committee on the Interior – at this point I would like to repeat it again –: It is a necessary approach to consider do what our state protection needs in order to meet the new challenges in particular terrorism, the risk of terrorism – not a question – but it would also have been the first step of the Austrian population to avoid leaving many of these threatening terrorists and radicals in the country in order to monitor them in the future. This would have been the first step that we believe should have been taken by timely, consistent, effective border controls, border control measures, registrations, in order to ensure, in the future, that there and there, with necessary monitoring measures, that – if you know where someone is – nothing happens here. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] At this point, I would like to see what figures are really up-to-date on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, what the threat, based on radical Islamists, has been given here in Austria, who has returned here and who is not, because these figures will not exist, because, in spite of these warnings, not only from the FPÖ, but from experts, international intelligence services, lawyers, European legalists, even from Frontex, where one has not boasted of God, there is a strong trade in fake passports, and then there is also a lot of radicalismism, to IS-terrorists about the refugee routes to Austria. – But this criticism is known and partly a different story. Let us now devote ourselves to the content of this State Protection Act, because, ladies and gentlemen, the liberals have set out three key points for themselves at all the side-by-point sites that this State Protection Act also gives us in the negotiations and in the explanations also essentially: on the one hand – and that is, I believe, the brackets above all, and that should also be a driving force for us all in the hope of continuing negotiations for a better final outcome – that there must be a high-quality legal protection for citizens in our country if there are already appropriate monitoring instruments and measures in the hands of state protection. However, for us, the highest quality of legal protection does not mean that, as before, there is a legal protection officer for all permits of various observation measures, but that there is a Senate decision here that there has to be a Senate decision on each of these possible variants, which, of course, has to be taken by majority decision, with each of these Senate members always marching for parliamentary control and can also tell us what is going wrong. This is also very important in order to have internal control of the members of the Legal Protection Senate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] It is very essential if we are to outsource appropriate responsibility to prevent the risk of terror from Austria, that there is not even the possibility of using this power and using it against our own citizens – and even theoretically. From the very beginning, this was also a driving spring for us to bring about a change in this core area. However, in the negotiations, despite constructive discussions, this has unfortunately not been achieved in this design, with which I can basically also state the reason for seeing ourselves at this time in this government template with the changes that have been made so far, to agree to this law of state protection in a calm conscience and in the sense of the Austrian people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's another point. This one hardly follows the first one. This is a crime catalogue, which is very wide-ranging – and here a lot has also been negotiated: once a crime has been brought in, once a crime has come out – a catalogue of those offences, which are in the room, which are to be the state protection motivation, to be able to intervene and to take preventive measures in advance to prevent further damage from these crimes. Well, what do we have inside and what don't? – And it is a surprise that this crime catalogue continues to mention the crimes of opinion, which I would like to sum up as follows: If a larger round is sitting at a common table and in the given political situation is also exercising legitimate criticism of the government out of the emotion, then this can lead to the possibility that, as a result of the possibility that violence may arise from it, there will be a peak paid there because of these tribal discussions and can also make our citizens up to the ordinary table the subject of consultation and can also be heard. That can't be it, and it won't be with the liberals! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Across Austria, there are certainly legitimate excitement in many ways, and some hard word will fall. But that can't be a reason to send our citizens to the main table, into the families to see someone there, ladies and gentlemen. The state cannot take that much into account when it intervenes in fundamental and freedom rights. And when I'm already there, I'm wondering, What does not enter into this law? – For our part, we have tried several times to find an answer to the question of why the offence of § 282a StGB, a call for a terrorist act, is not mentioned in this law. That is to say, there is a crime of opinion, but the offence that really involves calling for a terrorist act is not provided for in this law! Yes, how can such a law be called salopp “antiterror law” if not even this section is foreseen, Mrs. Federal Minister? So that's not conclusive for us. This is still not foreseen in the Government's proposal, including the amendment. That is why we believe that this should be criticised. And if we are already here, I would now like to address one of those amendments which can be mentioned in the positive sense and which are also addressed by our side. The criticism across Austria by the Bar, the Association of Journalists, the doctors was justified, in which it was pointed out that it could not be possible for this State Protection Act to circumvent the provisions of the StPO for the protection of confidentiality and the rights of dismissal. That can't be! That was our position, too, and we have negotiated it – and it was very well received, and it was also said at this point that this is also mentioned by our side, that in this case arguments in a corresponding exchange of views have finally been very well counted and that this has also been found in the template. Nor do I want to discuss this away from here, not bad, but it is a positive change, which is also respected by our side. And I believe that in the sense of these professional groups – doctors, lawyers, business loyals, journalists – it is also necessary in their field. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What has not been received – and I am now again in a criticism – is a legitimate interest of every politician, not to be exposed to the danger of being stifled by the government in its own role, especially as a representative of an opposition party – whoever will be in the future, whatever the government may look like in the future. This cannot be done, ladies and gentlemen. Nor do I understand, especially since we have managed to take in these professional groups, which I have mentioned earlier, so that there should be no disillusionment and no other investigation into them, that this does not apply to those who make policy here and often also be critical of the government. That is to say, this is also a criticism of us, in which it is not understandable why the government has held back from doing so. All in all, there is therefore a rejection by us at this time and, of course, a request for referral back to the Committee on the Interior to take the opportunity to implement the necessary, still pending changes. I have heard from our colleague that the same is also planned with the Greens to show there the further willingness to talk and need to get a broad majority. However, if this is not the case and if an disproportionateness of the interventions seems to have been passed on, then we are also prepared to prepare a third complaint to the Constitutional Court with our experts – and we will then begin to do so as well. This is also a stone's throw here and clearly said: This massive intervention in fundamental and freedom rights has to be proportionate if we want a law that is actually intended to protect citizens, and not to the detriment of citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e25387	I call Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e25408	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This law on police protection, which we are expected to adopt today with the votes of the government parties, is, I believe, a federal law which, in its balance, is very balanced between the legitimate concerns of citizens with regard to their fundamental rights protection, on the one hand, and the necessary measures for the constitutional and terrorist defenders on the other hand. Other side. It is a well-balanced, well-defiled federal law that we can present and decide good conscience here, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] This also depends – and I would like to expressly mention this – on the fact that, and I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for this, we have conducted a process of debate and discussion on this law for almost two years. It was a very special concern for you to discuss this federal law in the form of an open process, starting with a survey organised by the Ministry of the Interior on this subject under international participation. As a result, we have had a survey here in Parliament, of course with the participation of all the parties represented in Parliament and a number of experts. There was a fact finding mission, on which we saw security spokesmen – including some of the opposition parties – the new models in Norway and Switzerland. Then, after the government template, we went into a very intense discussion process, which, at the end – which I very much regret – did not result in the agreement of the two major opposition parties in particular – for which reasons always, perhaps there are more strategic or club-internal reasons, but that is okay, it is also the good right of the opposition parties to take no responsibility with it – which, however, has allowed us – and I would like to expressly mention this positively here – also in this very constructive dialogue a wealth of reflections, suggestions, concerns that there were to be included in this proposal, in order to be able to present a law that has just the balance we have wanted from the very beginning. I regret it a little – Mr Darmann, because you have caused some crocodile tears to flow – that it is not possible, because we do not have the necessary two-thirds majority to actually take into account the law that we would have liked. But we do not have this two-thirds majority and that is why we can only ensure a senate-like legal protection. But the will of the legislator is clearly also formulated, for we expressly say that the agreement between the legal guardian and his two alternates should be sought here. We also want one of these persons to be a judge or prosecutor, with at least ten years of professional experience, which, I think, is also important. We have, of course, taken up this question which you have raised and which is also important to us, namely that this State Protection Act should not, of course, enable the authorities to circumvent other laws, such as those relating to grounds of secrecy, which include doctors, lawyers or editorial secrecy, because we still have a legal principle in Austria, and a simple law cannot contradict another law at all. It was a matter of course for us. But because there was uncertainty here, of course we have agreed to include this passage in the law expressly. As you have meant that in the case of constituencies, the peaks at the main table and up to the families are on their way in: So I know the people sitting at the main table with me, and I also know my people in the family, I can't imagine you're all too active there with V-people. This is not, Mr Darmann, the aim of this law, but – you have that of mine. In my opinion, it is only wrong to say that it is a federal law that is intended to combat terrorism and serious crimes, and not a civil harassment law. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to say that clearly. That's not intentional, we don't want it, and that's not what it's all about. I believe that we can present this law as a whole with good conscience, after almost two years of discussion, after intensive deliberations and, I would also like to mention this here, support excellent legal experts. I would like to mention here, on the one hand, experts from the Federal Ministry, Mrs Federal Minister, and thank them, Mr Mag. Free ice, Mrs Mag. Kutschera, from the clubs Mr. Mag. Jedliczka and Mr Mag. Shooter, but also by the opposition parties, Mr Rochowanski and Mr Niklfeld, who, in my opinion, have been excellent in their expertise. I think that this fertilizing discussion has also led to the fact that we can present a very good, balanced law today. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that with this law we can tell the citizens two things: They are on the safe side, because this law is not a civil harassment law, because it is not about collecting herb and beet in data and acting in the sense of superfluous storage of data, but because it is about being able to become active when very concrete moments of a dangerous suspicion are present and thus, on the other hand, to give citizens the security that our authorities have in their hands those resources that they also need to be able to counter international terrorism, proliferation, espionage accordingly. – I recommend the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e25502	The overall amendment was distributed, explained, properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e26787	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e26808	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a very personal thanks to my negotiating partners Otto Pendlvon der SPÖ and Werner Amon von der ÖVP. It is not a matter of course that Members of government parties who do not need a two-thirds majority say: Let's still sit together and see that we're bringing something together. I give them two motives in all friendship: First, the knowledge that we need a better law than the one that has been presented to us, and second, the will to show what a parliament, which takes itself seriously, can, if it is allowed and if it wants. This is not the first time. We were in a similar situation to the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. We were in a similar situation when we said together – and all the political groups in this House – we are not allowed to offer everything as the Republic of Austria and as a parliament of NSA and BND. It was a similar situation, as we have said, let us once again place a day on these pointless refugee debt allocations and statements, and let us see that we are putting a completely different sign on strengthening the UN and the World Food Programme. It wasn't the first time, but this time it was particularly important, and I say it from a very personal point of view: The government template that has been presented to us in spite of the good will of many people at the head of the interior region – and I have found that quite clearly – was in the international mainstream – and that is not a friendly term in this context. There is an international intelligence development that goes from the USA to NSA and CIA, and through GCHQ, Directorate Générale and BND has finally come to us, which means: Knowing as much as possible – in the mistaken belief that you can then prevent as much as possible. In the Ministry of the Interior, this has led to a great mistake in being able to pursue security policy in the secret service sector through the establishment of something like a small Alpine CIA. And it was very important that by hearing American experts in particular – a former NSA Technical Director and others – it was relatively clear to our representatives that this is the wrong way. If you want to prevent terrorism, you have to focus on terrorism. Then one must not pursue reader's letter writers and government critics, and animal protectors, organized football fans and many others, but then one must take a close look at scenes with their networks and leave away everything else that is disturbing. The American method: If we only enlarge the hay heaps as much as possible, then we will find all the needles!, as we know, has failed – and not only since 9/11. So we – and this was especially with the members of ÖVP and SPÖ mentioned above – began to examine the government template for how we can achieve a double objective, namely not only to fight terrorism, but also to protect people in Austria in good time from attacks, while at the same time protecting the rights of citizens a hundred percent – and not just one bit – of them. That is why we have begun to look at and then change one point after another in the law. We have restricted the crime catalogue, since we have said that no single terrorist must fear it if we are to be persecuted by potential hate posters who have not even written a hate posting, but by those of the constitutional protection – for whatever reason – assume that one might arise here. And the colleagues from the Freedom Party were particularly pleased that we were very successful in this area in the research of the crime catalogue. We then looked at other areas – opinion crimes, diggling of state symbols, the national anthem ridicule – and we removed one after another, after we also brought out demonstration crimes and many things. We have said that hate posting can be constitutionally relevant, but only if it is written and if the concrete threat is in there; the public abuse of the government can... – and so on. Then we have said that now we are looking at how to deal with it, we have come to believe that the State Protection Database does not even have a control, and we have agreed that there is, of course, a need for control – that will be the legal protection officer. There's a need for concrete clarification, but there's something we've done. Then we asked ourselves how this is with the V-people – it is an Austrian speciality to call paid peaks of the Ministry of the Interior as trustees, but now it has happened this way –: Should they be allowed to determine how hidden officials, with recording devices, with fake documents, with false identities? - We said no, we don't want to. This has therefore been deleted, and many others too. Yesterday it was about professional secrecy and professional protection – I do not want to repeat what Werner Amon rightly said. It was important for the occupational safety of journalists, lawyers, doctors, to say that is regulated as in the criminal procedure. – And that’s right now, that’s right. What did we show with that? . As a Parliament, we are able to make good laws, and I say, according to my experience of recent years: unfortunately or fortunately, much better than what comes from individual ministries. However, we in Parliament are also able to make it clear to ministries that, regardless of whether members of the government or opposition, we are increasingly seeing ourselves as the real legislator. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And this is a very, very important step in this House, and it is also very important that this also see more and more people in the ministries – and I hope, also in the Federal Government – as progress and not as a threat. Now there are few but important points left. The most important point was probably: Although legal protection in many areas – and since I give Otto Pendlund Werner Amon completely right – does not require criminal justice, but we find other ways and partly found it, in one area it is so sensitive that I do not want to have the completely independent and indispensable judge proposed by the Minister of the Interior and appointed by the Federal President – that is phone monitoring, and in that case traffic data. We couldn't agree because the Ministry of the Interior insisted: no judge. - Okay, that's not where we agreed. We believe that this is incompatible with the constitutional principles of the Republic. There is a very simple way to clarify this: about the third complaint. This is not an act against our negotiators, but rather to clarify this very question. Then there is a second big, important point: At present, the State Security Act does not provide for control of data transfer to foreign intelligence services, and I do not understand that! According to experience with NSA, BND, CIA, GCHQ and so on, where it was not only about abuse, but also about data sharing and cooperation in certain areas, which are extremely problematic, we need to control this because we know that the right to strengthen between secret services applies. And the stronger one is when it says: With the data!, not the Austrian Constitutional Protection, but certainly CIA, GCHQ or Federal Message Service. And that's where we need protection so they can't get what they want with the threat that we won't get anything from them. Nevertheless, summaries: We cannot agree, but I have not experienced such a successful failure of negotiations in the 30 years as a Member of Parliament. This is the biggest negotiation success in the failure – now only as far as the vote is concerned – that has been achieved so far. We owe this to a new culture of cooperation, cooperation and trust in this House. This is incredibly important to me, and it is worth at least as much as the improvements in the law itself. We will now, together with the Members of this House, go this way of clarifying the Constitution. Then we will know what we all have to do together. We will all take note of this in all peace, if this or so is decided. But we still have an important homework to do – please, Mrs. Inner Minister, listen away now, because that has nothing to do with you at all –: We shall talk among ourselves about how parliamentary control should look. We need strong control in a strong law, and that is only our matter. I think there is a great willingness, a reasonable and strong parliamentary control, which also includes some elements of the rules of the Committee of Inquiry, as soon as possible, at least at the same time as the law enters into force on 1 January. ==References====External links== No law without strong parliamentary control! All in all, these were not a hundred percent, but largely very, very successful, and for all of us together important negotiations in every respect. Thank you once again, especially to Mr Pendl and Mr Amon, but also to some others, including the Liberal Group, and an invitation for the future to the NEOS to participate in negotiations, the more, the better. Let us continue in this sense, let us create strong parliamentary control, which can only be good for everyone! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e26924	Mr Pendl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e26945	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen still on the gallery and in front of the screens! After months – I don't want to be over and over again for the two years – talks with the political groups, with the department, with the foreign experts, I think with our experts today I can say that we also have a new quality of discussions and negotiations. One thing I have liked, dear Peter: that you have also made it clear, we have discussed this without need of any majority order; for we are convinced, and I am a convinced follower of the fact that we have had a long understanding of this law – it is just a matter of time – which concerns the area in the run-up to a possible criminal offence, since everything else has been regulated either by the Security Police Act or by the Criminal Procedure Code, since we have long agreed that we also want to put this on legally sound legs. That is why the Police State Protection Act is important, because we simply want to ensure this area – in advance – legally. First point. Second point: Everyone knows, and, Mr Steinhauser – I just want you to listen – you will never convince me, because if Peter Pilz is dreaming everywhere for excellent parliamentary control, I will tell you from practice, and we have tried this several times that in every court decision, in every decision of a judge, the whole court has rejected that Parliament controls. That's your contradiction. Dear Peter Pilz, we could have presented a multi-party agreement today, at least a party agreement. I'm telling you, without need, we've done this for us two anyway, because I'm convinced of it. And I do not let this discussion – justice cannot control anyone – affect me. Werner Amon and I have said, together with the department from the first second, that we can understand that a legal guardian can always be criticized. We have all said that this legal protection officer is doing his job well. So, then we came to three. Then one has also criticized the three – that is, the system. Then it was said that one must have been a judge or a prosecutor from the education, and that must have been done for at least ten years. – One has also criticized that. But now I really wonder – Peter at least did not address it –, Mr Darmann, I understand, party-political calculation, tacting, all this I understand, but: The Senate is in the law! That's what we've written in. We do it simply by law, because otherwise it will not happen, because we have taken away no one else, not those who have given it to. Because otherwise it wouldn't have gone without a constitutional rule. But we did it! It stands inside – please read it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Not for all measures! Not for the entire State Protection Act!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner.]] We often talk here about things that simply and grippingly do not vote! They're not right! And now I'm saying something about it: Everyone was there... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Darmann.]] – You always have to look at your legal base. We can discuss this anyway unafraidly, only: Yellow is yellow, and green is green – and we cannot change that. At least once, that's what we're gonna do. There we are, I think, agreed. Now I'm saying something about it: We said for the first time in history, not only afterwards, in a report, but this Senate – and when we decide that, we have the Senate – does this accompanying, and vice versa, communicating vessels – give rest once, listen! – to report to the Subcommittee and we can request it. [[Abg. Darmann: Only for two out of seven measures!]] [[Abg. Darmann: I have to teach you something!]] It's a new quality. We all agreed on this. That is, we have already increased legal protection considerably: away from one, the three decide as a Senate – all a new quality. And we have announced in the negotiations that we want to evaluate all of this. Maybe in the future we'll get to the point that we have a single job. We've had it all on the table. Always stay nice with the truth! [[Abg. Lugar: Thank you, Otto, thank you!]] This way we will continue step by step. We don't want a law to sharpen – I know why you can't, we all know – but we want a law that gives the state the opportunity – and you have literally said it, Peter – that we can protect our citizens from these new forms of threat – that's our duty! The catalogue is so restricted that only terrorism remains. At the time of extremism, we have gone down so far that nothing can happen, with all the fears there are. That was crystal clear with the experts. I'm also one who's been in business for a long time. I also feel that as a new, pleasant culture that we have been negotiating for a long time now. I believe that we should continue this path, no matter who agrees today or not. I am one who always wants all of us to talk about the same and not constantly argue with things that are not right. That is why we are insecure to many Members who are not informed in detail and then do not really know what is going on. - Point one. I believe that we should jointly try to put in place a law to the Austrians, which, at human discretion, guarantees protection as far as possible without being overwhelming. I don't need any police state protection observing any business debate on the cross-snap or some kind of stupidity. We don't need that, and it's never been remembered. And if you really look at the law, you have to say – after weeks and months of discussions –: Good. – I don’t ask you now, Peter, how many percent we’ve implemented – a high percentage; and this without any need. You know that yourself, and everyone else knows that. That is why I say that if we decide on such a high-quality negotiation outcome today – wurch, who agrees – thank you to all. I hope we have reached a law for our police, for our BAT and for the Austrians, with which everyone can be satisfied. Let us hope that nothing will happen, because the health, safety and life of the Austrians are the most important. Let us try together to make a contribution in this sense! Maybe one or the other is right. That's what I'm inviting you to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27060	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27081	Mr President, or Mr candidate. Maybe you can say that. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the BAT! Yeah, wurch, who's agreeing, right, dear Otto Pendl? I have already criticized the process several times in the course of the process, and I have not deviated from this criticism and have to put it back on now. We are in favour of the law – once again – in itself. We also believe that we need this law, intelligence work and police investigation belong to each other separately. The involvement of all parliamentary parties is still a good idea. This happened a year and a half ago, you can round up to two with a little bit of good will. In fact, this was a one-way communication in our direction over long distances. One could say that you could have used this purpose of involvement medially very well, you could have said it was all involved. This puts you in a good position. Whether you want to give faith, I'm not so sure. That is what the so-called negotiations are now showing in the final phase. I am not sure whether these negotiations have taken place. In response to our demand, there was never any. So I'm not so sure. Finally, on the day of the decision-making today, a somewhat comprehensive amendment has been tabled in the plenary. The lead time to go through it again in detail was short, much too short. For this reason alone, it is very difficult to agree with this. The tactics of getting parts of the opposition with feeding glass beads somehow to agree did not seem to work. Mr Darmann and Mr Pilz should also refuse to give his consent. So this obviously didn't work so well. If I have learned something here, it is that one can put conspiracy theories on the strategic process of the government parties relatively quickly ad acta. Even if it looks like I've moved my razor, Ockham's razor I've always inserted, things are often as simple as they seem. It was simply a big sausage in this process that lasted until the last second. And it seems that negotiations are still under way. We are in the third draft, with an overall amendment with additional amendments which are now under negotiation. And it is already the question why such a matter is not the first shot. Where were all these experts when it came to building the presentation in the ministry? – Obviously, it was only later that they were added. The importance of why the first draft should fit is derived from the contents of this law. It's about very, very delicate areas. It's about the area before a crime is committed. To investigate, to identify, to work here means to automatically touch fundamental rights. This is an extension of powers to monitor suspicion. Here is very, very much possible, here data is collected, and there are delicate instruments without which prevention would not be possible. But that's why you also have to protect them very sharply and very accurately. This can be achieved by means of two measures: by installing appropriate legal protection in advance and, in the consideration of this, by means of proper control. What's the danger here? – The danger lies in the fact that the crime catalogue is not precisely defined enough that it is not precisely defined enough that it is soft at the edges and allows too much. The same danger lies in simply collecting too many data that the limitation of the data collection is not sufficiently large. That means it could be that you drift into something like a store data storage light. I believe in good intentions that this is not the goal. But the question of what happens to the data in international exchange does not answer this law either. Any form of data collection is nothing but waste of energy. It is much easier to collect data than to identify it specifically. And this energy actually belongs to focused, modern monitoring measures. We have never talked about the possibility of these measures and the possibilities associated with such measures in the course of the discussions. In this context, we have also made a request – and this one is in negotiation – to the basic-right-seeking methods of information. All that is decided here is, in our opinion, also accompanied by a monitoring statement. There are also measures in other laws that lead to surveillance. We would like these laws to be systematically evaluated whether they are still effective at all, whether they are whether they are at all necessary and whether they may not be abolished. There is also a request which, as it were, has not survived the Committee, but perhaps leads to another result. Summa summarum: We cannot accept this overall amendment because some of the points are by no means sufficiently prepared. These are the main points: From our point of view, the lack of overall surveillance. There is no judicial approval – even if this is perhaps not a problem in practice, it would have to be evaluated at least; but this judicial approval is also necessary from our point of view. We have not talked about parliamentary control. We will do so under item 25 where there is also a proposal from us. There are ambiguities in the crime catalogue, which I do not want to list in detail, ambiguities in the powers of justified suspicion of danger and the writtenness of this obligation to state reasons. The V-persons are not sufficiently discussed and neither are the data records. Here we have even brought along an amendment which addresses a second point. That means we can correct at least a few things here in second reading. I have to read the application: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want a state protection law that allows for focused, fundamental-right prevention measures. We want to do so with judicial approval and also with increased parliamentary control. We must evaluate this law at least soon and improve it as soon as possible. As you know, there is not only criticism of the opposition, but also of other organizations: Mr. Rädler, who, I think, is a “catholist”, will be particularly pleased with the judicial association, the Barbarella Chamber and – this is what Mr Rädler has said – also from the Holy Catholic Church to Rome and its deputies in Austria, the Austrian Bishops' Conference. But I also want to remember the working group stock data that had run under state protection.at a petition with over 30 000 signatures, which has also attached a punctuation to this petition, all of which has been changed. I would ask you to include this in your voting behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27215	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27286	Mrs Mag. Steinacker is the next speaker: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27307	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! "Let's trust that law creates power." That's what Abraham Lincoln once said. I believe that if we go out of it for ourselves and we live in such a way that the state power is fundamental because it is obliged to the common good, then we can say with fug and law that we are discussing today a very, very good presentation of this State Protection Act. State protection means the defence and prevention of attacks on state institutions on the one hand and the protection against criminal acts against our citizens on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to weigh two legal assets: on the one hand, the protection of the state and on the other hand the rights of citizens. Citizens should not be suspected of being suspected of being a general person. But at the same time, police work makes no sense if potential perpetrators are immediately informed about investigation measures. That's why it's quite clear: All measures initiated in the framework of state police investigations must be proportionate and appropriate. We have long discussed the issue of who should grant these permits, and I believe that this must be clearly said again: The legal protection officer has proved himself to be the best in recent years. No one in all the discussions, not from the opposition and even from the government parties, has ever questioned it. The order requirements for the persons who are now legal guardians are of the highest quality: Federal President, proposal by the Federal Government, consultation by the Presidents of the National Council and the Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court and appointment for just five years. This means that there is also the possibility of changing once. And the legal protection officer is not to forget that, please, independent and wise. Independent and wise! No minister of this Republic, and certainly not our Minister of the Interior, would ever affect this independence and freedom of guidance only in the worst possible way. And I would like to express my support for something, namely identical people, who judge the questions made, namely similar questions. You can always decide according to the same standards. This is very important for us that, across Austria, the assessment standards are uniform whether measures, investigation measures are allowed or not. Maybe a few more clarifications about this: As far as parliamentary control in the Subcommittee is concerned, we have the right to speak and to reply accordingly. I believe that no one has ever had this control as sufficient not particularly appreciated. We've all experienced this in recent years. To clarify, Mr Alm: Not data storage light, but quite clearly: The State Protection Act does not provide for data storage of stocks. It is not stored without cause and not on a surface. Quite clear: only in individual cases and after approval by the legal protection officer. This also applies to all other measures. I have to leave behind what Mr Pendl and Mr Amon have already made clear on the subject of protection of editorial secrecy or professional confidentiality, because of my short speaking time. There have just been additions. The discussion with all of you in the negotiations was very fruitful and, of course, has brought us forward in the legislative process. The government template was already a very, very good basis, but what we have now added to it by means of various opinions makes this law a lot better. So let me conclude by saying: We have carefully balanced and used all possibilities for a balanced balance in this law. We have created a lot more security for our Republic of Austria, that is, for our citizens. And I think that's what it's supposed to be about. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27371	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27393	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! At the front: Yes, this State Protection Act is necessary for security in Austria. That is clearly out of question. The police need more resources to carry out their investigations accordingly. And yes, it is also necessary to make pre-examinations before even a offence has been committed. That's why maybe to explain this to the audience in front of the screen: I'm also a police officer, I know how to find out. If I can only find out if I have a specific suspicion, I will be lagging behind terrorism. I would like to express great praise to the Federal Minister, the Ministry of the Interior and also to colleagues from the government parties that they have previously addressed the opposition parties, who have explained the problem that they at least a year and a half ago have involved us in the legislative process. And then we also had an interesting excursion. There we were, among other things, in Norway, there looked at the system of intelligence services. We have also looked at the system in Switzerland, which I believe is the most exemplary and, yes, also most interesting for us in Austria. And there in Switzerland there is parliamentary control in a pronounced form, and that has always been my demand for us to introduce this parliamentary control. How that works there? – There is a close circle of parliamentarians from various parties who are imposed the highest level of secrecy with serious criminal threats if they do not adhere to them. It works in Switzerland, and that is why it will work in Austria. That's what I'm going to assume. They are carefully monitoring the measures put in place by the secret authorities, security police authorities, whether they are really right. They often come from the ÖVP or from the government parties with this legal protection officer. Yeah, that's okay. I am also in the Committee on the Interior, I have heard the reports there, and I think it is worth some improvement. We've already talked about it anyway. That is why I am absolutely of the opinion that this control must be given that we must, of course, be in breach of fundamental and freedom rights to the Parliament, the representatives of the people in such a sensitive area. It's no different. If I want to determine in advance, I have to infringe certain fundamental and freedom rights in order to be able to find out. If I do so in accordance with fundamental and freedom rights, I am always a step backwards. We know that; we all negotiated and talked about it. We then have the problem that terrorism is again faster or the terrorist is faster than the police, and we do not want to do that. I have tabled a request for a postponement in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, because certain questions are still open. They have already been addressed by my previous speakers. I don't want to repeat it now, otherwise we'll be sitting there forever – what we're going to do anyway. We're probably still sitting here until midnight. I would just like to stress that I have tabled this amendment for good reason. I am not otherwise a fan of reluctances because they are often used by the government to put the opposition a little cold. But he would have made sense. That is why I can only support the request for referral back. That's in my mind. My amendment was not accepted; I hope that this request will be accepted. There is still some need to talk! On the whole, we are on a good path, Mrs Federal Minister, but give us the chance to agree so much that we really have a large majority behind it and that the population we represent is largely behind this measure. 99.9 percent of the people outside have nothing negative to expect from this law, but only those who really don't want anything good for the state and the population, for we want to catch them. And, of course, we need a corresponding law, but at the moment it is not yet ready to decide. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27441	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27462	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! The speeches of the ladies and gentlemen stressed that 2014, 2015 were two years of intensive discussions. The year 2015 has shown that we need action. Just think of the dramatic terrorist attacks, whether in Paris or Istanbul. Yes, we have an increased terrorist threat across Europe. This is particularly important for the safety authorities. It was not until Monday that Europol chief in Amsterdam again warned of the terrorist attacks that could happen in Europe. Therefore, we are also called on to cooperate intensively with the security authorities of other countries, which are required to develop appropriate strategies together. Yes, Austria too is particularly required in this sensitive situation, and particularly is the state protection required. You know that I constantly emphasize that it is my duty as Minister of the Interior, as Minister of Security, to guarantee democratic values and, above all, to protect the security of the population, that it is important to assume responsibility when it comes to stability and security in this Republic. That is why I gave the start of the discussion on the State Protection Act in April 2014. We have also recently laid down this State Protection Act in the Government Convention, in which we have agreed: Yeah, it needs a change. We all knew exactly what danger the terrorists posed, and unfortunately, two years later we had to experience what finally happened. The forecasts of our police were correct. That is to say, we are not talking about an event legislation today, but we have set ourselves in time to discuss this so sensitive issue. What kind of question did we ask at the beginning of this discussion? – We have put the very important and central question: What do the people expect from their state protection? What is the need for state protection for instruments, what powers, what means are there to ensure that the population can also receive the best protection? From the very first minute on, it was important to me, above all, to create a social and political consensus that the balance between security and freedom can continue to be guaranteed and what we must do to keep freedom and security in balance. From the beginning I said: Yes, I need a transparent discussion. It is important for me to stress that this is not a party-political debate, but above all a discussion that focuses on the security of citizens. We are responsible to the people, to the population, to protect them from the new threats. I would like to thank the negotiating teams at this point. The negotiating teams of the government parties did not make it easy for them to negotiate until this morning, unfortunately not with the opposition parties to the finish line. Nevertheless, I believe, from the statements made by all previous speakers, that there was a discussion, a discussion and negotiations at a level, fair negotiations on the basis of mutual respect and marked by mutual recognition. I see it as a unfortunately given opportunity because we have come very, very close. For whatever reason both opposition parties, FPÖ and Greens, have ultimately said No, it is to be accepted. Unfortunately, this is a far-reaching opportunity because we have already agreed on many points, but above all because we all know one thing, namely that we need a modern and new state protection law. For the many flowers that have been scattered here, especially on the part of the opposition parties, I thought that there really was only a little bit of good will to be able to agree to this law. However, I do not want to say a warm thank you for this culture of negotiation and, above all, for respect and mutual recognition. Allow me now to underline some of the cornerstones of the law, much has already been worked out. I was particularly concerned that we continue to have a security authority, that the state protection continues to remain a security authority and not become a secret service. It was important to me that we focus on the new tasks, namely the defence of the author. ......................................................................................................................................................... And, of course, there was a lot of discussion: What tasks are there? How can they be defined? There were also changes in which we were also very ready for discussion. We have precisely defined the crime catalogue, listed taxatively, i.e. we have also limited the scope of the task. Subject: Legal protection: Anyone who knows me knows that legal protection has always been important to me and will also be important in the future. In the 15 years since we introduced it in 2000, the legal protection officer has proved himself to be the best. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that the Institute of Legal Protection is actually a success story. What we have anchored is that the legal protection officer needs to cooperate intensively with his two alternates in particular, and what we have even further introduced is the legal protection Senate. As always, Mr Pendl has explained in a lively way, this legal protection Senate is a good signal that it is serious for us to strengthen this legal protection once again, especially when it comes to the use of trustees or the demand for telecommunications data. I should also like to point out, however, that trustees, trustees are not new, but that they are old-fashioned in the criminal police sector in which we have experienced very well. We must not make comparisons with Germany either, because these are different things and, ultimately, other basics. It is essential, and also in this area, that, at the end of the investigations, those concerned should be informed precisely about the reason, nature and duration and, above all, about their legal basis. This is already a crucial fact that those who are in the focus will be informed in detail about it afterwards. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what have we done? – I think everyone knows that the fight against terrorism is a fight against our specialists. That is why the logic here is that not all police officers need to be equipped with all the powers. That is why we have limited the sensitive powers to state protection to a small number of police officers who are actually working in state protection. In addition, you also know that these powers of course require an agreement of the legal protection officer. That is, we have really taken all precautions so that no abuse can happen with God. There was an almost two-year discussion process, in which many details also matured, in which we also changed one or another due to some impulse from you. I am proud that we have succeeded in creating a state protection law at the level of time, a state protection law, which stands above all for the security of the population with which we can face the new phenomena and which we can say: Yes, we will continue to meet our responsibility in the future. This milestone in the field of state protection, in the area of security for the population, would not have been possible without this comprehensive discussion process. I should like to thank all of you, the security spokesmen and negotiating partners of the opposition parties: the Greens at Peter Pilz, the Liberals with colleagues Darmann and, of course, also with colleagues Hagen and Niko Alm. First of all, I should like to thank the security spokespersons of both government parties, Otto Pendlund at Werner Amon, who have done great things that have been in close contact with them since April 2014 and who have put in a lot of strength, commitment and, above all, also competence, who have worked with the civil service, with the clubs, with the SPÖ club, with the ÖVP club, also with the experts of the BVT and the Ministry of the Interior, with Director Gridling and the Director General. Thank you all for that. I think it's a good day today because together we can set a huge milestone in the field of state protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27557	Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27578	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Terrorism is not a new phenomenon in Europe, we know. But the way, the form of the threat scenarios, in which the security and values of our democratic society, the rights and the freedom of citizens are challenged and, above all, the indiscriminately innocent people are struck, is the reason why we have to stand here today and pass a law in this form. With the State Protection Act, ladies and gentlemen, we want to provide a comprehensive and appropriate response to the threat posed by international terrorism, thus minimizing our vulnerability on a sustainable basis. These are several objectives: to prevent the re-admission of people for terrorism, to protect potential targets more efficiently, to pursue and detect members of existing networks. With a decision-making that we unfortunately do not bring together unanimously today, we make a responsible and solid contribution to the security of our country. Today, I simply do not understand the members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, who throughout the year are advocating the fact that they are the party of security but do not wish to contribute to it today. [[Abg. Haider:... Spittel!]] They are in favour of a more liberal right of arms, they animated to upgrade, to uplift the population. They have set up a homepage, a platform where asylum seekers and asylum seekers can be practically deunified if they behave suspiciously. All of this on the one hand – and on the other hand, they do not agree with this law. I don't quite understand. I believe that we are committed to the Austrian population and we assume this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, however, we are also obliged to do so proportionately to the rule of law. This has already been explained and analysed by the previous speakers today, so that I do not need to go closer to it. However, it must also be clear that, as SPÖ, if we also decide on reforms, we support the fact that, ultimately, only a good educational and social policy is the best and long-term terrorist prevention in our country. It is important to promote democracy, education and economic growth, to combat inequalities and discrimination, to promote and above all to protect peaceful dialogue between cultures. We cannot completely avert the danger of terrorist attacks, but we can prevent them permanently. We must be equipped to do this. That's what we're doing with this state protection law. I would like to thank all those who vote in favour.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27615	Mr Mag. Kumpitsch is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27636	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Given the terrible terrorist attacks and the threatening security situation in Europe, we are all aware of the importance of good functioning state protection so that it is able to protect our people, the people in our country, but also our constitutional values. It is also important that he obtain the appropriate craftsmanship. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But if we allow such far-reaching intervention into fundamental rights in the protection of the state, then it is also necessary that these interventions be considered particularly sensitive and that effective control is above all possible. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] It also raises the question of whether the security authorities have done everything they can to protect our people. Because police protection, the State Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism, ultimately depends on information from a wide range of channels, but above all from our police themselves, and here you allow me to criticise today. This criticism refers to border controls. Because, at the latest a few weeks after the mass storm of refugees, we should have done everything we can to ensure effective border controls, because only effective controls enable state protection to act on the basis of the information received. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] Only having questions on a note not to include this personal data in a logging system or another database so that other police services can access it is worthless. This costs a lot of money, but it brings very little for internal security and for the protection of the state. I believe that if we had done this from the very beginning, it would not have been so easy for the Paris terrorists to travel almost unhindered in Europe and, as we know, probably also in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is clear to me, of course, that the police and, above all, the state protection are seeking to preserve far-reaching rights. That's normal. He also wants to work effectively and protect citizens from threats, from terrorist threats. However, you have to be careful not to be too easily prepared for this tool, which you put in your hand. Then: These constitutional attacks are in principle all those crimes for which the National Office for Constitutional Protection was previously responsible in connection with the fight against terrorism, proliferation, anti-state connections and the like. Nevertheless, we still have some misgivings, and there is a certain danger. If they are already to be taken into this provision, that requires special legal protection. We have called for freedom of movement, that we should not in principle have included this offence, but should it be the case, then we will have sufficient control. The legal protection officer shall not grant the authorisation as such alone. We have called for a law firm to clarify this question, whether an investigation is permissible, with a Senate decision. It is true that you have complied with our demand in a certain area and installed a law Senate, but not as described before, for all constitutional attacks, but for two areas. I call this bill. This is the case in Section 14 para. 3: ‘(3) On the granting of the authorisation to investigate measures pursuant to § 11 para. 1 Z 2 [...] and § 11 para. 1 Z 7 shall be decided by the Legal Protection Officer and two by its alternate majority (Law Protection Senate).’ We would have liked all constitutional attacks to be subject to legal protection. You have not complied with this request, and that is also a reason why we are not yet able to agree to this motion for a law. Another point was a request from us to evaluate the powers – I did not understand you, Mr Commissioner. – to evaluate the legal powers of the public security services institutions for their effectiveness and for their lack of legal protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer]] This too was unfortunately rejected in the Committee. I therefore believe that further consultation and further constructive cooperation are needed so that we can all really achieve a state protection law that we are sure we need it. I therefore request that you refer this law back to committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27740	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27762	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With today's decision of the State Protection Act, we take a very important step towards providing the Austrian population with effective protection against terrorist, worldly or religiously motivated crime. I think it should be stressed in particular that the protection of Austrians is absolutely in the foreground, which is particularly important especially in times like this. Often, in the political debate, sometimes here in plenary, one has the impression that here is a law on the tapet, which is directed against its own people, that is incarcerated or similar. On the contrary, it is the Austrian population that benefits greatly from these measures. It has not been made easy, and the negotiations have already been intensive. It was an intensive discussion, one has gained experience in other countries with excursions, as the colleague has already said, and here presented a very balanced law. At the end of the negotiations, it was really intensively negotiated and one already has the impression that one could agree on content, especially the liberals and the Greens, but at the end of the negotiations cannot agree, for whatever reason. Mr Pilz called it the “most successful failure of negotiations”. A little bit of the impression that he has also failed successfully with the approval of his own group. The executive will be given appropriate instruments in the fight against Islamists, terrorist networks and gun sliders through this law, and these possibilities will also need it. I said it in my premise today: Constitutional protection has also worked very well so far, but with limited possibilities which have now been extended. The ÖVP was always important to consider and to ensure the balance between police protection measures and personal rights, to strengthen the institution of the legal protection officer – the legal protection Senate – and, of course, to ensure that our subcommittee is always informed accordingly. I believe that even from the point of view of a citizen, we must be glad to be able to pass such a law because we have the opportunity to protect ourselves from terrorist attacks by far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27810	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27831	Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of the Interior has already walked over my way in Parliament in the early days and has welcomed me with a friendly “Why have we not agreed?” My answer was lapidar: Because you don't want legal protection. . I believe that this short dialogue brings quite well to the point where the differences between us and the government parties are located. It's judicial control. But all in a row: What do you want with this law? – This law confers far-reaching powers on Austrian state protection. This is about mobile phone location possibilities, because it is about highly sensitive mobile data that can be collected, as it is about far-reaching storage possibilities. The first point: It always depends on what these investigation measures or powers are used for. If one can prevent a terrorist crime, then one will say that is proportionate; if it is used in another area, it is not proportionate. The second essential point was therefore: What possible offences, that is, in which crime catalogue can these powers be applied? There was the very crucial point, and that was also a great success for my colleague, Peter Pilz, that he has substantially depleted this crime catalogue. Highly sensitive offences, where it is not understandable that such sharp powers are available to the protection of the Constitution, have been negotiated from this crime catalogue. A crime remained inside, however, that was the land peace break. Now you need to know: The break of peace is a crime that was actually dead right and has been discovered in recent years in connection with demonstrations and football fans. Now this crime is already controversial there. But if, now, the protection of the Constitution itself, without it already happened, should have far-reaching powers, then this is clearly too far-reaching. There's just one Difference between demonstrators, football fans and terrorists, and this should also be reflected in the classification of the law. And there they refused, and that is not understandable. For me, then, there is already the suspicion that one wants to keep these powers open not only in terms of terrorists, but also in connection with demonstrations and football fans – and that will not exist with us. But even where terror is in sight, you have to look closely. In the field of criminal justice, there were 373 cases under anti-terrorism law between 2008 and 2013. This is not very little, and this shows that there is at least a certain tendency to use these laws in the context of investigations. That is why it is so central that there is also a functioning control here, and the best functioning control is judicial control. This criticism comes not only from the Greens and the FPÖ and other opposition parties, but also from the Bar Association and the Judicial Association. We're not alone here. I do not understand why the Ministry of the Interior so refuses to do so, because Parliament, with the Federal Administrative Court, decided a really good structure a year and a half ago, which allows police conduct to be controlled by the courts. We'll do that, too. I recall the banking secret of the highly sensitive area of the opening of accounts. Before opening an account, the Authority must go to the Bundesfinanzgericht, and the Bundesfinanzgericht does not approve or approve this opening of accounts. The same thing should have been done with the State Protection Act, with these highly sensitive powers in the field of mobile data: The Federal Administrative Court, a judicial authority does not approve or approve, and then such powers may be used or not. The dialogue with the Minister of the Interior was not quite over. She then said: You're always so suspicious. – “mistrust” is not a political category. It is also never a matter of acting persons; whether I trust or not individual persons is not the crucial question. The crucial basic structure of our rule of law looks like this: Authorities get power, and the citizen wants in return, as security, the control of this power. Our rule of law therefore provides for a division of powers. This control of power must therefore be carried out by independent courts. That's the jumping point. And since this is not ensured here, there can be no consent from us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27902	Next speaker: Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27923	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have not been in a legislative debate for a long time, where the opposition spokespersons have been so grateful to the government groups. Thank you all for the fact that there has been such a good climate in which cooperation with the ministry has worked – but they do not agree in the final effect. I'm very sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft also ensures that the sensitive competences are transferred to a much smaller group of executives, namely the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism, and are deprived of the other security authorities. Thus, the specialists will work with this law. It was also very important for my group to further develop the democratic control of sensitive methods of investigation. With the strengthening of legal protection and parliamentary control, this has really been achieved. I also find the restriction of the crime catalogue to be worth noting. The crime catalogue was restricted in comparison to the government template, and partly it is made dependent on the unlawful and intentional realization. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, that has been said more often: Terror has always been, but he's changed. We need new, other instruments and specialists to protect our people, our citizens, both in Europe and in the country as far as possible. I very much hope that this law will also respect citizens' rights – there is control. If we accompany it in parliamentary terms, we will also be able to face any mismanagements. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27962	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e27984	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This State Protection Act contains very necessary measures. Since the attacks of Paris, we know that there is not a lack of data, but that the exchange of data at EU level does not work at all. The hidden danger in this law is that in the context of this State Protection Act, probably much more data is collected by unspoiled people than by suspects. The legislative text does not define which data will be passed on and which will not. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for this is 28 different national rules for data transfers. Where do these data land? What's going to do with it? Who has access to this data? – How or whether the legal protection officer and his alternates are or will at all be involved in the transmission of the data, is not regulated in the present version of this State Protection Act, nor in this comprehensive amendment. It is true that everything needs to be done to prevent as terrible events as those in Paris – that is out of question. However, it is also true that such sensitive data must be handled carefully, and this is not clear from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28011	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28032	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we adopt the State Protection Act today, it is a very good basis, and it is a pity that there is no two-thirds majority. If you have listened to the speakers of the FPÖ and also the Greens, you have the impression that there were in fact other reasons that gave the result that you did not agree, and that is a bit vague and really a pity. What do the people expect from us as legislators? – Finally, the population expects us to give more opportunities to the employees of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism, in which a small team actually does valuable work, but also to give the police more opportunities to investigate. If things develop further on the other hand, then, I believe, it is important that you also give the executive and the employees of the BAT appropriate opportunities. We are also called on to take the concerns and fears of people seriously, to take things seriously. If you think about the events of the turn of the year, it is all the more important, I believe, that we take the concerns of the people seriously and think about where the limits of the process really are, and take note of these limits – therefore also the decision for ceilings in the Council of Ministers and in the government. These ceilings are important, because we can ultimately only integrate one part, and it is therefore important that the ceilings are given and that we also implement them. In my view, there are three important conditions for integration for those who want to come to Austria and stay here: The first is to learn German, the second is to want to work, and the third is ultimately to recognize and respect our order of life, our values.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28075	The next speaker is Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28096	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the subject of security police law: The Security Police Act regulates the fundamental right and the maintenance of internal security. To date, the observance of this fundamental right seemed to have been sufficient. At a time of extremism and terrorism, an adaptation of the existing legislation seems to be quite understandable. There are sufficient institutions to safeguard internal security with state police, prosecutor's office, courts and defence office of the Federal Government. Now, new requirements are being met on our country, which may suggest a certain risk potential, and the process of setting up savings measures as well as a reduction in personnel. In constant discussion there is the creation of a slim state. The creation of nine country offices of constitutional protection, located in the police departments, represents a significant cost factor. Exploitation of such techniques makes it possible to carry out comprehensive residence-related monitoring and to apply in the event of urgent need. However, it cannot be assumed that a peak service of long past times, now called ‘informants’, will receive grants for such information. A further problem appears to be given in the different periods of eras of eras of deletion of data of up to six years. The competence of the disclosure data on foreign intelligence services should be particularly called into question, as their further use cannot be verified. In summary, it can be assumed that any person present in Austria can become suspect in a way. In individual cases which have occurred so far, the EU is not in a position to provide sufficient security for its Member States. As a result, a guarantee of internal security at EU or federal borders is necessary. The present draft State Protection Act is therefore not to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28132	The next speaker is Mr Schabhüttl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28154	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We have already heard a lot about the new State Protection Act. After a very long and intensive negotiation process, I believe that a very good law has been passed which, in particular, provides the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism with a helpful instrument. For the future, it is important that there are opportunities to respond in advance to a possible threat in time and to carry out intensive surveys. Of course, there is always a need for democratic control in intensive and sensitive investigation methods. All surveillance measures must be authorised by a legal representative and, in particular, by a law firm, and the legal protection officer must report to the National Council on a regular basis and be addressed and answered. However, I would also like to take the opportunity to address the outcome of the asylum summit. In my opinion, it was time for the government, in agreement with the countries and the municipalities, to give a signal long ago. To introduce the directive with 37 500 asylum applications, I see it as an important sign for our friends in the neighbouring EU countries, but also as a sign for a refugee under the Geneva Convention, that he must find protection and reception here, but must not be derived from where the whole is being carried out. [[Call at ÖVP: Upper limit!]] Other accompanying measures, such as active and professional border management, controls and registrations, restrictive family-retirement handling, an assessment of whether asylum grounds still exist at a later date, or other opportunities for the future, persons who do not receive asylum, are supported by the majority of the population and, of course, also supported. Austria is still committed to the admission of refugees of war, but to an extent conducive to integration, to an extent which the labour market can cope with, and also to a number with which social peace can be guaranteed here in our country. Finally, I would like to stress that we have a real expert and expert in refugee issues in the Federal Government with the new Minister of Defense Hans Peter Doskozil. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you here at the House, the new Minister of State in his efforts to support Mr Mikl-Leanner in all matters, together with Mrs Innenminister Mikl-Leiter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28187	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28209	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to strip the State Protection Act with one sentence: It is a milestone for legal certainty and for the independence of our state, for the people of this country, so that independence can be guaranteed and any terrorist attack can be effectively and preventively prevented. However, what is still being regulated in this law and which has not yet been mentioned today is two points I would like to talk about. The first point is the possibility for the police to work with body cameras. One point that we have discussed more often, but which will now be possible, is to go with “body won cameras” in dangerous applications. On the one hand, this serves the security of the police themselves, so that they can show a precise proof of how specific and precise they have been used, but on the other hand also that people who say the use would not have been carried out correctly can now also be shown contrary evidence and not only recorded by private smartphones, but can be recorded by the police themselves. I think that serves the security of the police, and above all it serves legal security once again. A second point, which is regulated by this law and has not yet been addressed, is the burning of bengalic fires at football courts or at other sports courts. In this respect, we have adopted a resolution in this House so that we can also record in this area, which can then also be used in the prosecution of administrative crimes. So here too: More safety in Austria's football courts, more safety in sports venues! The firing of pyrotechnic objects can be better detected in the future and, above all, executed, and perpetrators can be researched. We are now creating more security for Austria and for this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28245	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28266	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Negotiations on today's State Protection Act were largely based on the discussion on moral justification on the one hand and on the existing need for monitoring on the other. I would like to predict that it is to be expressly welcomed that the discussion on this very emotional issue has been conducted at a very high technical level. This is also seen in the opposition parties' requests and in the fact that there has been intensive discussions for the broadest possible basis. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, quite clearly, also for me, is: We don't want a surveillance state. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] People didn't deserve to be suspected of being general. The fundamental protection of privacy is and remains a fundamental value of Western democracies, which we must not throw overboard. On the other hand, of course, there is also a legitimate desire to use all technical means to ensure public security. It is, as I believe, a great success that all the far-reaching competences related to the protection of the state should first come together in one hand. It is also positive to assess that for the first time it is clearly defined who and which groups are allowed to monitor the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism, namely only groups or persons who pose a serious risk to public security – I repeat: of whom there is a serious risk to public security. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The intensification of the legal provision considerably facilitates the work in everyday life. For the first time, it is also clear what technical possibilities can be used when and to what extent. It is good and right that both democratic control by Parliament and legal protection are enhanced. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The current version of the State Protection Act for the decision really makes a very narrow hole between a surveillance state and the protection of privacy.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28321	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. On item 3 there is a referral request from the honourable Member. Darmann before. I therefore leave it to the vote on the draft federal law which lays down the Federal Law on the Organisation, Tasks and Powers of Police State Protection and amends the Security Police Act to refer the Supplements to the Committee on Internal Affairs in 988. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law, which lays down the Federal Law on the Organisation, Tasks and Powers of Police State Protection and amends the Security Police Act, in 988 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Alm, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled a total amendment. In the sense of § 65 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first vote on those parts of the draft law, separately after request, both of which have been amended by the amendment tabled by honourable Members. Mr Alm, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Finally, I shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the amendments tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Deputies Mag. Alm, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 § 6 para. 2 Z 2 and § 12 para. 5 second sentence. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, ladies and gentlemen also have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 § 6 para. 2 Z 2 and § 12 para. 5 second sentence. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in 988 of the supplements, as amended by the amendments tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr President. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of this draft law at third reading, “Yes” voting paper, those who vote against to cast “No” vote in the urn. Please, be careful to throw only one vote. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Mag. Musiol to start with the name call; Mr Buchmayr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28453	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am going to interrupt the session for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28494	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 150; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 91, No votes: 59. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer; Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmijdenschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; Vetter, Vogl; Wenninger, wicker, tiny, waving; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Angerer; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brückl, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Doppler; Fuchs; Gamon Claudia Angela, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Hofer, Hübner; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Pillow, Pirklhuber; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rossmann; Schellhorn, Schenk, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache; Walser, Refuser, Willi, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28668	We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law amending the Telecommunications Act, including the title and receipt in 989 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 990 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 991 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 992 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:48:40]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on “Higher Penalty for Schlepper” (993 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28756	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28783	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a motion for a resolution tabled by the Stronach team on a higher level of punishment for tractors, and for me it has already been a very great disappointment and I find it very misunderstanding that the government parties do not go along with such a thing. It is one of the biggest crimes that we have experienced in recent months, namely the towing of people, and it is precisely these tractors that have lives on conscience. If you look at the level of punishment between six months and five years, I tell you honestly: The six months of commercial towing, which are already very, very low. You could think about it very much. And I am not going to let go of the suspicion that you have no great interest in it, because this Republic itself has been acting as a tractor in recent months, of course, that should not be ignored. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] In addition, of course, the mood in a country where a public-law broadcaster can say: In the past, Schlepper was called escape helpers, of course already deep insights into the way of thinking that exists in this republic, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Bundesminister, you know very well, and we have all read and heard this many times: Many of those who are now working as tractors were once in the field of small crime, in the case of breakdowns, even in the red light environment, and have now virtually transformed, because it is simply more random to drag. And that's exactly where I have to tell you, Minister of State: You can't accept that! You can't say that's enough anyway and we'll do enough anyway. - You'll make enough of them! One also sometimes has the impression that these tugs are now dragging a lot of people who feel like they are sex tourists with fake passports when they come to Europe. That's the real insanity. What is happening here in Central Europe has reached levels that are simply not acceptable anymore, and I really do not understand that there is nothing to be done here. Mrs Bundesminister, you have given us your information in the Committee on many things, including why you can no longer return people and why there are no return certificates and that the Republic must not negotiate on this issue. I'll tell you something. If you were looking at it a little bit, you'd see, for example, that Spain was one for African refugees ten years ago, and that Spain now hardly has any asylum seekers. This is also due to the fact that, unlike many other European countries, Spain has gone a clear way. First of all, they have built six meters high barbed wire fences in their border slaves in Africa – only so much to the March, fences do not work; of course they do! – and they cooperate with Morocco, they have feedback agreements with Senegal, Mauritania, Nigeria. You, Mrs Minister, told us in committee: We cannot do that because the EU is negotiating anyway, and if the EU is negotiating, it must not be the nation states. Interesting – only: Spain was allowed to do this, so Spain got the problem under control. Austria, the Austrian Foreign Minister, is really there, nothing here, Mrs Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to say: That's what you're doing, that's bird-strout policy! On the one hand, to take note of the fact that the tractors are still active as such and, on the other hand, not to create any possibility that there might be return agreements with African states, but also with others, on the other hand. And here, Mrs. Federal Minister, this federal government is required. That is where you are called, but also the Foreign Minister, who is really sparse here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28847	Mr Obernosterer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28868	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! This item on the agenda deals with higher penalties imposed on tractors. My previous speaker has, in part, responded to this. Last September, we discussed this issue in the Constitutional Committee. At the time, the required number of persons to be included in the law has already been corrected. Where it had to be ten people and more, it was reduced to three people. The level of punishment, as has been said, extends from six months to five years. This tow mafia has got a different dimension, and I'll give you all a hundred percent right: That's where you have to do everything to stop at least once from justice. We also know, however, that if tractors risk people or cause pain on their way, the Foreign Police Act is applicable; there are up to ten years of imprisonment. So it's not like that without it. This was also clearly stated in the Committee in September on the basis of this innovation, that one now sees that there is a twelve-month period for this revision, that it will then come to the table and that we will then put a corresponding law on the table in order to give the tractors a corresponding deterrent from the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28900	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e28922	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is positive that on our request – he has the date 17. June 2015 – the government launched an improvement in September. But that means she didn't fully implement it. That is why this request is here again, because the government, with a criminal dimension of six months to five years, has actually not taken massive action against the towing system. This is a kann-determination, and we want a minimum penalty. This minimum penalty has a certain reason. I was in Kosovo recently. I have been there informed of the problem of Kosovars, which have been dragged to Central Europe. Austria and Germany are the main countries where they have been dragged – under false promises. They are mafia structures that have exploited these people. There you can see some really poor people who sold their goods and goods and now have to make a difficult restart down there, because they have not got a perspective in Europe or have been pushed back – and have rightly been pushed back – and there you have to ask yourself the question: How do we stop these mafia structures? That's where you have to deal with all the hardness. Six months are all right, but that's too little. And when we look at what is caused by suffering, which is what is meant by the cost of our social system to our people, that we no longer have the money we need for our citizens who have paid, we already have to put in place measures that are dissuasive. I quoted this morning from a book by a German police officer, some passages from it. This policeman says quite clearly, there must be severe penalties, deterrent punishments, so that we can prevent this, otherwise we won't get under control! And this request is such a measure. Ladies and gentlemen, let us set a sign as a politician, as a people's representative, that these mafia structures will be countered accordingly, that we no longer have such conditions! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal also has a very clear right. I talked to an Austrian diplomat about two years ago, who told me as a Vorarlberger: Look over the border, the Swiss have a good model! If we had this in Austria, we would not have much of the problems we have with asylum seekers. I have looked across the border and I have seen that there are rapid procedures there for those who misuse the asylum system that occupy the places for the really asylum-seekers. That is, we have this problem, which we now have, largely because of people who come here for economic reasons, who have no asylum status at all, who are not being persecuted at all. And you have to say that openly! [[Congratulations to Mr Schenk, Mr Doppler and Mr Gerhard Schmid.]] And here we could, with fast procedures, quickly examine the whole as Switzerland does. From Switzerland, you can't tell me now that this is a non-democratic country and that human rights are being trampled on there – that's not the case. So, let's look over the border! Mrs. Federal Minister, I invite you, you will have my support. Please vote You submit this request, then do something good for our Austrian taxpayers and Austrian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29004	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29068	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29090	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today in plenary a motion for a resolution by the Stronach team, number 1202/A(E) on 17 November. ==References====External links== If one reads through this motion for a resolution, one can also imagine why it was introduced at that time. Here I have the figures of the Ministry, a beautiful graphics of the Ministry of the Interior, from 2014 onwards, which showed that the number of asylum applications is increasing and will increase in 2015. [[The speaker shows a graphic representation]] A motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to introduce minimum penalties for the conduct of the tow industry has therefore been tabled. Some things have been said about this. I would like to explain briefly the § 114 Foreign Police Act, Schlepperei. There are several paragraphs. I might also like to say that this section of the Foreign Police Act, which was reinforced by § 114 in 2010, increased the level of punishment of one to two years, and a second time in 2015 – that has already been said by my previous speaker of the ÖVP – than has been reduced from a larger number of towed persons to three people. That is, this section has been intensified several times. In paragraph 1, we have supplemented the illegal entry and transit of a stranger with the intention that this person or third party should be wrongly enriched: Impunity for up to two years. Then, in paragraph 2, we have punished re-activities within five years. If a toeman has ever committed this offense, such a crime, he will receive up to three years of imprisonment. I now come to paragraph 3, Mr Hagen, on the issue of industrialism: It consists of at least three persons and when “the stranger, especially during transport, is put into a painful state for a long time. ” The motion for a resolution speaks of unprotected people, of means of transport and of narrower space. This specialization would be carried here. What you are demanding can be seen in paragraph 3. This is about imprisonment from six months to five years. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Further to paragraph 4: This is about membership in a criminal association. The criminal framework is one to ten years old, which then comes to bear when the life of the person is threatened. We even have a victim protection in this section and an authorisation to provide provisional protection by public security officials who have the opportunity to implement it. Mr Hagen! With my colleague Dietrich, I understand, but with you as a trained policeman, I do not understand that you do not know that we have several criminal regulations. We also have the Criminal Code. In your request, they speak of “merciful exploiters ” who are“ completely unprotected and disoriented. ” – In § 82, there is the case of “restraint”, which must be punished with imprisonment from six months to ten years. That's exactly what you're demanding with the minimum penalty. In your remarks, it goes on to say: “Morod boats – which are then partially reduced – (...) in the narrowest space (...) – Here we are talking about a criminal framework of § 75 StGB from ten to 20 years and for life. So there's no longer a higher punishment. I know your mentor has the professional killer and a higher punishment in mind on various broadcasts here, but that's the wrong country. Please, maybe you can talk to him again, because that's not all right. All those who vote in favour of your request here refer only to the Foreign Police Act and not to the other statutory criminal provisions. I would just like to mention: For example, there is the § 104 StGB: Trafficking in human beings, extortion and so on, also within the framework of a criminal association. So there are so many possibilities, and that is why we naturally reject the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29157	Next word reported: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29178	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Higher level of penalties for tractors: This request is no longer entirely new, as we have heard, but I believe that dear team Stronach, more up-to-date than ever, this is out of question. The level of punishment must be increased massively, it has also been heard as regards the towing in general, because the tractors are the key figures of the refugee dramas. And this must be prevented by all means. These tugs, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not matter whether there are criminal offences in connection with tow or not. It also does not matter whether, for practical reasons, the provisions of criminal law have been transferred to foreign law. As the colleague has pointed out, the level of punishment must be greatly increased, so that it is actually a deterrent, otherwise the situation will not improve. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Of course, the minimum term of six months should be increased urgently. And then, when you read in the media, “Sleeping with a reasonable wage remains punishable”: This cannot be done, ladies and gentlemen, and is urgently amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29221	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29242	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you really want to deal with a problem and solve it, you should consider: How does this problem arise or how did it come about? Therefore, when we talk about the fight against towmaking, it is very important to consider: Why Trust Actually Refugees of commercial tractors, to whom they usually pay a lot – thousands of euros, normally – and also trust their lives, very often on a dangerous journey? If you want to ask this question out of the question. It is not a question of solving the problem, but simply calling for higher and even higher penalties. The main problem is why there are industrial tractors, why protection seekers entrust themselves to them, is that a legal journey, a legal escape in most cases is not possible. There has been, for example, up to a few years ago something that has called itself asylum procedures, embassies. This was abolished under the Federal Government of ÖVP and FPÖ. This could be reintroduced, for example, because if someone, without yet being in the EU, could apply for asylum and, after a preliminary brief review, obtain a visa to enter quite legally, then it would make paid tugs superfluous, because this protection seeker would not need a tow. [[Abg. Beautiful: And then we send them a ticket from AUA!]] The colleagues from the FPÖ are calling in between them as always; You are welcome to speak. [[Abg. Honey: We just want to supplement you!]] – No, you don’t complement me, you just do polemics, but that’s what I’m used to from the FPÖ: no solutions, but always in between. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So if you want to deal seriously with the problem, you have to ask yourself the question: Why do refugees even need paid tugs? Why are they going to these people? Why do they risk their lives on folding boats and pay thousands of euros as well? – Because they cannot enter the EU legally. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You already said that!]] And if you want to make tugs superfluous, if you want to withdraw their business base – as we have been repeating them for months, months and years – then you have to provide legal escape routes and legal entry opportunities for those seeking protection. Then the problem would be dealt with to a large extent. [[Abg. Honey: We'll pick them up with the AUA!]] Even in view of the fact that the last legal intensification was in September 2015 and we have not yet evaluated whether this intensification has taken effect at all, and if, in what way, to what extent, I find this symbol policy to be constantly calling for more punishment, without knowing at all whether the previous penalties have brought something, not targeting and not meaningful. I would encourage you to start at the root of the problem in order to be able to get the tractors out of their business base really seriously and sustainably. In this sense, we will not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29324	Next word reported: Mr Gerhard Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29349	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! With regard to the dimensions of the penalty for tractors: The continuing wave of refugees continues to be due to tugs or to tugs. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between towing in the country of origin of refugees, the provision of inadequate means of transport at the high seas and the mainland of Europe. However, crime must be committed in its entirety. Regardless of the fact that the situation in Europe is misrepresented in the countries of origin of the refugees, tolling is to be regarded as a high degree of exploitation. Incontrovertible is the fact that towing is also a key factor in refugee problems in the Austrian territory. As a result, an intensification of criminal law is essential. It is known that tugs demand summaries for their activity, but most of the agreed target countries do not reach, as the towed persons will leave their fate in front of borders or controls. On the other hand, there is only a large number of violations of the law in passenger transport – not enough driver's approvals, unauthorised means of transport – and the penalties are only made to a minimum. Therefore, the request to increase the level of punishment from currently six months to five years to ten years should be accepted in the fight against tow sickness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29386	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 993 report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleagues, on '48 hours of asylum procedure in accordance with the Swiss model'. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[21:12:22]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (626b._Other Organiser Federal Act, which adopts the Energy Infrastructure Act, amends the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 and the Energy Control Act, as well as the Federal Law on the Time-limit and Procedure in the Cases of the Type. 12 para. 3 of the B-VG are withdrawn (651 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29449	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Vice-Chanceller Mitterlehner. First of all, Mr. Dr. Kassinger has been mentioned. I'll set 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29480	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As the first speaker on this item on the agenda, I have the opportunity to briefly explain what is in this item on the agenda, including the Energy Infrastructure Act. It is therefore about developing energy infrastructure on the basis of an EU regulation from 2013, namely the Trans-European Energy Infrastructure Guidelines Regulation. What is this essentially about? – It is about the recognition that an essential prerequisite for the conversion, for example, to renewable energy sources – and here we agree that this is a worthwhile goal that we all support – is also the one to provide and expand an appropriate infrastructure, in particular with regard to transmission networks, but also with regard to storage facilities, for example. This is the subject of this Regulation at EU level. This concerns so-called Projects of Common Interest, i.e. projects of particular Community interest to be registered in the EU – there is a list of the Commission. Austria has of course also registered: Large projects, management projects, storage projects, power lines, gas lines, storage plants et cetera. In total, there are 19 projects with Austrian participation and an investment volume of €2.3 billion. What is the objective of this EU regulation? – on the one hand, to involve the population in the process earlier than before or earlier than in other procedures, namely already in the preliminary application section. The second objective is above all to speed up appropriate procedures in these priority projects or projects. This, of course, also depends on appropriate access – and resources are available – to EU funding, which in turn has a positive impact on the economy, on the employment dimension. A so-called energy infrastructure authority – according to the EU Regulation – is intended to deal with the problem. And now it's going to be Austrian: As part of its regulation, the EU provides for three possible alternatives to legal implementation, as far as the competences of this Energy Infrastructure Authority are concerned. Possibility A would be to direct the entire approval process and the entire procedure by that authority, the so-called integrated scheme. Possibility B would be the coordinated scheme in which the authority can intervene and decide, at least in the event of failure by other authorities. The third possibility would be the cooperation scheme in which the authority can at least set time limits. Now it becomes Austrian – you will not wonder –: Of course, the countries have protested. The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs is planned as an authority. The countries have protested, they have said: without us. We are already at the slowest variant, so to speak, and here too there are parallel procedures: EIA procedures, which now remain extra where the countries did not want to be allowed to speak, and these PCI procedures. There's the question: What about the red tape minimization? We have doubts that bureaucracy will be minimized. We would also be interested in what has ultimately remained in the Federal Ministry's competence regarding these procedures after this match between the Ministry and the countries, which is commonplace. If I quote the “standard”, that’s not much. Here we are talking about a “smart version” that is decided today. In our opinion – and I repeat the demand of our former energy speaker, President Hofer – would be the first step – and this is also required by this EU regulation – to implement a strategic energy master plan first. And here I also quote the “standard”: ‘There is no cross-border strategic planning, as required by an EU regulation from 2013 to date.’ That is why we will not vote in favour of this draft law. I would like to make a brief comment on the basic parliamentary procedure, which has already been said in other contexts today: If we are informed on the basis of rumors that today an amendment, which is a comprehensive amendment, is tabled – precisely, which also makes a constitutional provision – and we already have to read about the content in various newspapers and I, as an economic speaker and energy speaker, receive this amendment for the first time today at 11.21 p.m., then this does not correspond to parliamentary practices, or otherwise formulated, then you must not expect us to be particularly constructive here in principle. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who still has a constitutional provision to make!]] So another reason why we won't agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29519	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29541	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Powerful energy supply and energy infrastructure are crucial for the economic and industrial location of Austria and its employees. This has been clearly demonstrated to us several times in recent years. The amendment tabled today makes a significant contribution to the future. Today, the implementation of the Regulation on guidelines for the trans-European energy infrastructure of the European Union is to be decided by means of the Energy Infrastructure Act and the amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. The aim of the legislative initiative is to speed up the so urgently needed expansion of the energy infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, this has succeeded. The Energy Infrastructure Act has the content of strengthening domestic security of supply and the energy transition by accelerating the expansion of European energy infrastructure. This acceleration is taken into account by concerted work on projects of common interest and faster authorisation procedures. This is achieved through clear deadlines and transparency in the preliminary procedure and in the formal approval section. This acceleration is also reflected in the appointment of the Ministry of Economic Affairs as an energy infrastructure authority. In addition, the law also significantly improves the involvement of the public through more transparent design of procedural steps and, as early as possible, early participation of all relevant stakeholders. The route guidance for the cross-border electrical line system is also possible and thus ensures the expansion of power. Since projects of common interest requiring EIAs already have a fully concentrated authorisation procedure, it is important to adapt the EIA legislation to the Energy Infrastructure Act. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government goes beyond that and responds to the last ECJ decision “Gruber”. The European Court of Justice was right that neighbours in the approval procedure could apply the EIA obligation of a project even if the EIA obligation was denied in the investigation procedure. This has already led to significant legal uncertainty and delays in the implementation of projects and companies concerned. Some projects have also been stopped, for example the capacity expansion of FunderMax GmbH in St. Veit on the Glan or the network support in the large Villach area. This is where the necessary legal and planning certainty for existing projects is now ensured. With an additional motion for a resolution, the supporters aim at an exception from the general EIA obligation to upgrade existing power lines if upgrades are to be carried out, where there is no deterioration for the people in the area. This improvement has already been considered in the light of the Federal Government's labour market and economic package. It is estimated that investments amounting to € 700 million will be triggered, creating 2 500 jobs. The Minister for the Environment will make a further forward-looking contribution with the new EIA-Novelle. Ladies and gentlemen, of course it would have been an intention to put this law on a broad basis with a two-thirds majority. Unfortunately, however, the FPÖ was not ready for this, and after quite constructive discussions with the Greens, an agreement would, unfortunately, have been possible at the end of the day only with a further welcome. [[Abg. Brunner: With further acceptance of the ÖVP?! You didn't come up with any negotiation offer!]] But this would have led to delays, extra effort and gold plating. However, decision-making is now necessary in order to create legal certainty and find an acceptable sustainable solution. That's what this is about. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to explain the amendment in its main points: First: On the basis of the deletion of Article 3, the title ‘Energy Control Act’ shall not apply. Secondly, Simple legal implementation of the Energy Infrastructure Act and thus the withdrawal of the Constitutional Provisions. Thirdly, Anchoring a forward-looking track safety for electrical wiring systems. Fourth: Union law shall be taken into account by the introduction of a subsequent right of review of EIA decision-making for neighbours, similar to that for environmental organisations. This restores the binding effect of decision-making and creates legal certainty. For those projects for which approval has been withdrawn under the new Judicatur, the transitional provision shall, until a new replacement permit has been granted, for a maximum period of three years, grant a right of continuation of the right to set up and operate the project. Fifth, you open a bottle No mandatory individual case-by-case check for the approval of smaller liaison points in case of contact of areas of category E. I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the acceleration of energy supply and energy infrastructure is a key factor in the energy transition, boosts the economy and secures a wide variety of jobs. The present initiative will also strengthen citizens' participation and economic location. I invite you to support this law as far as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e29616	The amendment was presented in its main points and distributed to the Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30299	The motion for a resolution is equally properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30359	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30380	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, It is therefore about implementing an EU regulation on so-called Projects of Common Interest. Mr Kassager has already explained well what this regulation is about: more efficient procedures for important energy projects, but also financial support for these projects. For us, therefore, it was important to see how the procedures for these projects look and how the list for these projects came into being in Austria. That's why I'm going to deal with it right now. It is, as has been said, an important question concerning the Federal Government and the Länder, which is why a two-thirds majority was actually envisaged here, which is now to be removed with this amendment. I'd like to premise: The energy transition is the central project when it comes to achieving the objectives of the climate agreement. And for effective implementation – that is what I say from the green point of view – it is crucial to also bring about superior planning, adequate planning of the energy transition and to be able to take away citizens. That's only possible if you put them in time. In the negotiations, we would also have seen the opportunity, by introducing superior planning – away from the individual projects, towards energy planning – first of all to get energy planning more into public hands and not only to leave companies together, but also to bring energy, environmental, citizens together. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: keyword OMV!]] I am convinced that this is one of the decisive measures to be able to implement the energy transition quickly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is in fact also required by Austria by implementing the strategic environmental review, which has been overdue for ten years. And there we were already very far in the negotiations. I would have seen this as an important step in the implementation of the energy transition. We were also very much involved in the participation of citizens in other legislative bodies. We have already been very far on the public debate on this list, in which these important projects are included. We have also been very far – and that is, I believe, interesting for the economy, even when it comes to efficient procedures – in the creation of approaches to equip the authorities with more expertise, in order to be able to handle procedures efficiently, efficiently and above all independently. That's where we agreed. All of this is now sacrificed. Negotiations were stopped unilaterally last week. The removal of the two-thirds stories also gave up things that would have been important for companies and project operators, such as better coordination by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in cross-border projects, such as cross-border projects. There's no such thing now. And why? – My previous speaker said: There was long legal uncertainty because Austria, and in particular the ÖVP, also refused to implement EU law, implement citizens' rights, rights of people in the EIA process – which is being negotiated here – and were lifted if citizens could not apply that a project would be EIA mandatory. There was a refusal. The solution that is now being proposed is that even if an approval notice is withdrawn by a court, the project may nevertheless be set up and continued to operate. [[Call: Unbelievable]] And that's from the rule of law, I think I'm already questioning. It is also clearly questioned. Nor do I realize that the legal uncertainty that has been known for years now, whose elimination you have not been addressed as a federal government, is now being carried out at the expense of avians, that is, exclusively at the expense of the neighbours of such projects. I do not let the argument of delays apply. We have always said that we must act quickly here, because there is great legal uncertainty in this area. And from a green point of view, Minister, from our point of view, we would have been able to conclude before the summer if there had been an offer from the ÖVP on this important issue of citizen participation. Nothing came. That's not how it works. Especially when it comes to efficient approval procedures, we should also be trying to achieve effective negotiations here in Parliament. These negotiations were anything but efficient. The only ones who delayed were the government fractions. As I said, we could have completed this package before the summer. We already had a very constructive basis for discussion in the energy sector – I am addressing the eco electricity law and the energy efficiency law – and we have also carried on a lot. Unfortunately, it looks a little different now. The Energy Efficiency Act is torpedoed, these negotiations have been delayed, there was no negotiation offer. That's not how it is. This needs to improve constructively. We need to implement the Paris climate agreement, as we need to go a little further in the energy transition, there are other two-thirds-matters – a keyword of eco-power law – and I also ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to become active here and bring energy policy back to the fore in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30438	The next item is Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30460	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We already have one here from the opposition, but also from Mr Mag. Largely sufficiently explained bill. I would like to comment on a few points, including the contradiction of the opposition. Dr. Kassinger says that this amendment would have become known for the first time after 11:00. [[Abg. Brunner: There he was officially transmitted, not before!]] Mrs Mag. Brunner, you confirm that. At the same time, on Friday last week the Greens expressed criticism of this amendment. That doesn't cover everything, from the course. [[Abg. Brunner: Until recently, I was not sure if it was the same!]] That's probably the opinion: Formal has perhaps only been sent today, actually known this was of course already last week. – Can I count the nick as a confession? All right, all right. – That means: So that the opposition wouldn't have had a chance to deal with it, it wasn't. [[Abg. Brunner: I've been dealing with matter for a year, I know it!]] – That’s why you don’t need to nod when he says he was “burdened” today at 11 a.m. with the change! - Okay, good. I just didn't want the impression that the opposition in the course of the parliamentary process would not have access and could not deal with it. - She could. Now we come to the second point: Yes, it may not be all the wishes, but I do not understand. This bill, for example, expressly produces the neighboring rights already in the investigation procedure. [[Abg. Brunner: Yes, that is...!]] Not voluntarily, compulsorily by the decision of the Administrative Court of 22 December. ==References== I agree, but the proposal is now an implementation of positive party rights. [[Abg. Brunner: The question is what about the old cases!]] I do not understand why, for example, the Green Group does not agree. She has to discuss this with her voters. [[Abg. Brunner: The right to continue...!]] Why do you vote against the fact that citizens are already given access to documents as soon as the decision is out and that they have the opportunity to go directly to the Federal Administrative Court? What is bad about a citizen participation possibility? – Yes, and what’s bad about that? [[Abg. Brunner: Right to continue operation! Old cases! You know the law!]] - Okay, let's hold on. It is good, and you are nevertheless voting against it. That's okay. Everyone is free to do so, the free mandate is valid here. We generally have the situation that we meet all the requirements with this change. We do not need a two-thirds majority, and we have significant improvements, even if the administrative court has forced us to do so. I think that's a good law. We don't want any more bureaucracy, we often have the other problem: that entrepreneurs say the procedures are all too long, it's all too complicated. We have things that are ready and cannot be put into operation. At the same time, we have international companies where there is always the risk that everything will not always be produced in Austria. In other words, we must take appropriate steps between high standards, high forms of consideration and the necessary expansion measures. We are doing so, as well as the motion for a resolution goes in the right direction. Such a dance as in Salzburg, where Her country councillor rightly now had to make the decision,... [[Abg. Brunner: This would have been to be avoided by an overarching planning!]] It's okay, I just wanted to point this out. That was a compliment! You can be failed out of the opposition and then, if you are responsible, say: Yes, we need the 380 kV line! – This is a good decision, and that was a compliment for it. It proves that greens can also make right decisions in government responsibility. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30589	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30611	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! As my previous speakers have correctly recognized – and I would also like to confirm this – the deadline has simply been too short. We do not have time to deal with the amendment proposal if we are only sent to it this morning. I also ask you, Madam President, because it is your responsibility to ensure that Parliament can work properly. I think it would be right for us to be able to give proper consideration to requests in order to be able to prepare us properly for the debate. If Mr Matznetter wants to so to speak, he can blame, but no one takes him seriously in this respect. When it comes to this law, I must say that the impact-oriented impact assessment is so inadequate: According to the Explanatory Notes, the new infrastructure authority, the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics, is expected to evaluate in detail an appropriate amount of personnel after the decision-making process has been taken and to cover it by internal human retransmissions. A cost assessment did not take place. According to § 17 para. 2 BHG 2013 should be accompanied by an impact-oriented impact assessment for each draft regulatory project, with only the essential impact – which is, at least, the financial impact – to be estimated.’ Similarly, this also applies to the changes in the competences and tasks of the regulatory authority E-Control as set out in the law. And here I can only join my previous speaker Kassinger again: What comes out now, especially in this regulation, with this TEN-E RP, is a classic Austrian solution. There is the scheme a, an integrated scheme, the coordinated scheme and the cooperation scheme. And what have we agreed on? The draft ministerial proposal proposed the scheme b, i.e. the coordinated scheme, is the same: one authority co-ordinates, including throughput rights, several authorities decide. But what happened? – One has once again made a abdominal stain in front of the national leaders. A classic „System Österreich“! And we wonder when the industrial and economic location of Austria was still large in the morning, and how important it is. In the final effect, this has a fatal effect. What we would need, what we would urgently need, would be an energy master plan for 2050, and here I am: The only one who really has a plan is Mr Bolz. Otherwise, no one has a plan. [[Abg. Steinhauser: The Bolz is anything but...!]] The plans for an energy master plan were shubbled and nothing else. This event legislation is a fatal sign! [[Abg. Matznetter: Should we not abandon the laws for which there is no occasion?]] We need a master plan if we want to create the energy transition and if we want to accelerate administrative procedures in particular. If you don't have a plan, how do you want to secure the location, economic location, industrial location – you say Industry 4.0?- Oh, my God! – I think that in this respect a master plan should be put on the table very quickly so that we can discuss it. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30663	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30685	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Listeners to the TV sets and to the gallery! The essentials have already been said by the previous speakers. The improvement of infrastructure and all that has been addressed should be supported. However, concerns have already been expressed in the initial draft – including by the Industrial Association – in the direction of actual red tape reduction. These concerns, which have now been raised by the opposition, are probably justified. Everything has been said about the procedure for submitting this amendment. Time for discussion and time for discussion has not, of course, remained. The fact that there are, of course, positive progress and effects in the application should not be disputed. The creation of these 2 500 jobs with an investment volume of € 700 million will also have a positive impact on the regional and local economies. This driving over, including with regard to citizens' rights, but especially with the property owners – I think we know about these concerns in the border area of Salzburg, but also about this citizens' initiative in the Almtal, from this planned release –: We really need to take these concerns seriously and take better account of these citizens' interests. And if it is necessary when it requires safety or public interest, wiring must also be possible. The Energy Master Plan addressed by my previous speaker Sepp Schellhorn is, I believe, out of discussion and absolutely necessary in order to get clarity with an overall concept for the future – both in terms of supply and implementation. We are because these effects and demands are not sufficiently implemented or because too little time has been spent discussing this, at the moment not ready for approval, because the consequences are still too low. I should like to quote the German Finance Minister Schäuble, something he said in the course of the budget, which can also be said here: There we are more for driving on the lookout to make clear decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30727	Next came Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30748	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the implementation of this EU Directive: You know it and you have mentioned it in part, it is the EU Infrastructure Regulation that provides for us to work in coordination with regard to security of supply, but also to better internal networking in Europe. Mr Schellhorn, if the occasion is a directive of the EU, we are probably not able to speak of the law on the occasion. This is about coordinated implementation. The priority projects in this area have also been jointly developed and stand firm. I tell you, these are projects such as the power line between West Tyrol and Zell am Ziller and more. We have discussed it here too. So, surprised to do that on the agenda? Mrs Brunner, also the same: Yes, we are very interested – because this is a rather complicated matter, especially with regard to the competence of the countries, because we have a complicated situation in the energy sector – that either the Freedom Party or the Greens agree. That's why we've been trying to do it. Only: Whatever the weighting, it is obvious that it is difficult to implement. The whole aim is to ensure that projects are carried out more coordinated and faster, taking into account Austrian law and citizens' interests. But I think you are moving it a little too far, exactly into the area – and this is the occasion for us to have to act accordingly, this case Gruber Da has just filed a woman's complaint. [[Abg. Brunner: From the beginning we have had this in our negotiation package...!]] There was a capacity expansion of the FunderMax GmbH in St. Veit aan der Glan as well as the 220 kV network support in the large area Villach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] The problem is that there is a corresponding ECJ decision. [[Abg. Brunner: I know that!]] - Yeah, but I'm just getting to the point you don't know. – If you start with the fact that everyone who has approved this project has to stop everything from today to tomorrow, then you have no more consistency at all. [[Abg. Brunner: We've known the situation for years! We have been warning for years...!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You know, I don't quite understand the emotionality of that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brunner: It's about something!]] If you listen to me, I'll tell you: Otherwise, we would simply have a confusion about stopped projects, and no company would ask for something accordingly if you have to risk that if you have a positive message that is gone from today to tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brunner: We have been saying that you have to act for years!]] It is therefore necessary to choose a reasonable procedure. And at my colleague Schellhorn it's always the same, he goes out and says: What about the Master Plan? . We have presented this and said that it makes a lot of sense to wait for the last climate conference in Paris, because there can be some difference in the objectives of others, and this can also be done in a climate and energy strategy, which will be overall and which will be completed this year. Everything goes in a strategic direction and there is nothing different there. I don't know why you don't want to see or understand. What we've done now is that the law firm Schönherr has given us an opinion and said that there is, up to a few points, the possibility to implement it simply by law. In this case, this is the second best solution, but it would have been preferable to solve us with a corresponding majority of the constitution. As far as the core content is concerned, I believe that this has already been very successful, and that is also the content of the law: There is a two-stage authorisation procedure with a total procedure duration of up to three and a half years for projects. This is positive because it simply works more coordinated. As far as this coordination is concerned, of course, with as little effort as possible, as far as new positions are concerned here in the house are concerned, it will probably be possible to find results with two to three employees. Now, when we set up a new job, with God knowing how many officials and employees, you are the first to blame me for expanding my staff again. So I think you can reconcile both. We also agreed to a coordinated procedure with the countries. And, of course, because of the case raised, it is also necessary for the EIA law to be amended accordingly. The best possible transparency by early integration of the public – which you have talked about – is also included. It is a broad and very citizen-oriented approach. Due to the advanced time, I do not want to strengthen you now, but all that we have there is indeed a positive one. [[Abg. Brunner: Not enough!]] The projects are not arbitrarily invented, but have been in preparation for a long time. They will increase our security of supply. They are also always talking about jobs and economics: If you look at this, in Austria alone, we expect €3.1 billion of investment linked to 40 000 jobs. So be consistent, see that you support us in this way in accelerating with the overall goal and that you do not misunderstand everything in the direction! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] Climate protection and energy in the area of the strategy cannot always mean more restrictions. That is why we are happy to be open to further discussions. There are still some materials to be implemented. I thank you for this first step, which will at least help us in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30884	Next, Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30906	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring to this bill because some of it affects traffic, namely, the construction of federal roads or parts of them. It is about the environmental impact assessment for such projects. There is a word with us in Tyrol, that is, “aussamt”. What you present in connection with this amendment to the Federal Roads Environmental Impact Assessment Act is g’amt! I think that this is a point of order and I would like to explain the following. There you can also see where it leads if you do not undergo an accurate examination of such a law. § 23a, which is now to be amended, provides for a paragraph 1, which regulates the projects for which an environmental impact assessment is to be carried out in the Federal Roads. Then there is a paragraph 2, which states that for certain, slightly smaller projects in the Federal Roads, only an environmental impact assessment in the simplified procedure is needed. The law in force states that a simplified procedure is to be carried out in the case of “new construction of additional terminals if an average daily traffic load (DTV) of at least 8,000 vehicles is expected on all ramps in a five-year forecast period”. This means that if such ports are built, a simplified EIA procedure must be carried out at a certain frequency. In paragraph 2 below, there is even another exception for this simplified procedure, where one does not even need it. And see, now suddenly a new point slides in. Now it says: “except” from this simplified EIA “are (a) the new construction of terminals relating to a protected area of category E’. And if you look at what category E is, you find: These are settlement areas. So this is land where residential buildings are located, areas for childcare facilities, schools, kindergartens and so on. That is, exactly where people live, you suddenly say that you don't even need a simplified EIA procedure, because you make an exception. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] So that you sometimes do not protect protected animals or parts of the landscape or water protection areas, I am used to that from you, but that you are already starting to say, where people live, children or sick people, there you do not even need a simplified procedure, that we take from any EIA at all, that is, as you say in Tirol, outg’s shame. That is why we do not, of course, agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e30976	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 626 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Groiß, Mr Katzian, Mr President, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I shall first vote on the supplementary or amendment tabled and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Groiß, Katzian, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the amendment of the title and the amendment to the table of contents and amendments to Articles 1 to 4, which do not comply with the constitutional provisions of the draft law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, and the receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. This means that we will be able to get to the third reading at once. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for the present draft law, to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Groiß, Katzian, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Electricity infrastructure to develop faster – take out upgrades to existing routes from the general EIA duty’. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. (E 123.) [[21:52:48]] 10. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (881 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Health and Hospital Care Act, the midwives Act, the Cardiotechnic Law, the MTD Act, the Medical Assistance Law, the Medical Massage and Healing Law, the Sanitary Law, the Dentist Law and the Dental Chamber Law (1. EU Vocational Recognition Act Health professionals 2016 – 1. EU-BAG-GB 2016) (972 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (939 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Medical Law 1998, the Music Therapy Act, the Psychotherapy Act, the EEA Psychotherapy Act, the Psychologists Act 2013, the EEA Psychologists Act, the Pharmacy Law, the Pharmacy Chamber Law 2001, the Wage Case Law 2002, the Veterinary Law and the Veterinary Chamber Act (2. EU Vocational Recognition Act Health professionals 2016 – 2. EU-BAG-GB 2016) (973 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31074	We shall now proceed to points 10 and 11 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31104	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there are two government documents that address up-to-date health professions, on the one hand, and on the other hand doctors, pharmacists, veterinarians, dentists and the like on the other. The material content of these two government proposals is in fact an equal one. It is about making mutual recognition of acquired skills easier within the EEA area. In principle, this once sounds completely harmless. However, if you look at this in detail, you must unfortunately notice that our high Austrian standards, which we have in health care and which we are rightly proud of, are to be eroded. There is partial recognition of partial knowledge. So there are many things where you have to ask yourself the question why we really have to adjust to a lower level. It's just not understandable. If you look at the opinions on this legislative matter, Mrs. Federal Minister, I must honestly say that there was no positive. There were negative opinions in all the professional groups concerned. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Doppler.]] All state governments have delivered a negative opinion. And in every country government in Austria, one of the two government parties is inside. So that's actually a broken law through the bank. In fact, it is a fact that one can say a little bit overtly that the footsitter from Bulgaria should become a orthopaedic with us. We just don't want to. I believe that if the people in the home countries do not have this high standard of training, they must either look at the EU level, that training is raised there, or that there is re-training in Austria. But in the present form, we cannot give these two legislative proposals an agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31150	Next, Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31171	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Yes, the professional recognition laws implement EU provisions into national or national law. These laws will now allow new recognition mechanisms and instruments to facilitate mobility of health professionals within the EU. There are some provisions that are of particular importance to me. For example, reliefs will be accompanied by: A single contact person is available to obtain online access for information and the best possible information when it comes to providing his vocational training in health professions in other countries. Another point is the assurance of settlements and procedures. It is also possible to check the formalities of the relevant competent authorities. And that is guaranteed by this change of law or adaptation. One important point for me is the European professional identity card. This professional card is extended by five health professionals, such as general health care, the pharmacists and pharmacists, and psychotherapists. This, ladies and gentlemen, also gives those groups the opportunity to obtain European professional recognition in their profession. An important point for me, however, is also partial access to the profession, which is partly related to special training in the country of origin. This means that a person who has special training, but has no basic training in a health profession, through which this special training can be carried out in the European area. For me, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this provision is an implementation, but that this implementation also brings a quality and brings this quality to safety and will arrive at the patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31214	Mr Karlsböck spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31235	Madam President. Minister! We are talking, as has already been said, about a law that is more or less an EU requirement, the granting of partial access, especially within the framework of an EU vocational recognition law. I cannot spare you the criticism, Mrs Minister, even if it is a requirement from the outside that is being awakened. There has never been a law – at least I have not seen anything in the area in which we are discussing here – which has led to such rejection by all those who are entitled to an opinion. We in Austria have acquired a very high level of legislation and training in the health field, a very high level not only for doctors but also for all health professionals. Often we also criticize these things by saying that it is too much bureaucracy inside. But as I said, We can also be proud of this and this gives us a good reputation internationally. And now we go here and discredit our own laws through an EU provision. The so-called prophylaxis assistant was mentioned as a short example in the dental field. This is now a profession of its own in Austria, where in many areas over the years there has been a real increase in quality. Of course, you can do a lot of things, they do this work on the patient, then they also clean up, they might do the dates and the like. Partial access says nothing but that with an access granted in another country, where the quality is proven to be much worse, one can exercise this profession in Austria, only in this limited area. This may mean that, within the framework of this, it is not allowed to put in place hygiene measures in the ordination, that it may not be allowed to make a bill, that it is not allowed to make dates, in good German, in the professional recognition field at all. These things are absolutely incomprehensible to me. In addition to this, the obligation to designate is added. We have so many languages in the EU, we have not only a Latin alphabet. These things too will be a problem. In short – because time is missing –: It is in the final effect a bad situation for the patient, and it also means domestic discrimination in certain areas. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Doppler.]] Due to the high sensitivity of a corresponding high-quality education in the health sector, this liberalisation must be clearly rejected by us. Many opinions point to serious shortcomings in the implementation and undermine the high level of Austrian health care. Part of access to work and the incomparableity of training or the designation of a profession from the home country endangers patient safety and occupational protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31289	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31311	Madam President. Mrs Bundesminister Oberhauser! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As already mentioned, the two legislative templates are transpositions of an EU directive into national law and, among other things, have the content of enabling partial professional recognitions. The single parentheses, under which all these measures can be seen, are the subject of patient safety. Patients seeking medical assistance seeking help in a health professional need, above all, one: You have to be able to rely that someone understands his profession and that he or she can also do what is on the front of the sign. This is very clear for doctors trained in Austria, pharmaceuticals, but also for the members of the elevated medical service. These professions are regulated by law – one gets physiotherapy when “Physiotherapy” is on the sign. In a Europe with a wide variety of professions and also the most diverse professional recognitions, in which cross-border services are both possible and desired, the matter is getting a little more complicated, so there is also a need for a legal regime. Even if this directive makes it quite clear to the national states, especially in the case of a delicate matter such as health professionals, to allow or not to allow this partial recognition, I think it is both right and important to see people from a wide range of health professions coming to us as a potential and as an opportunity for our country. However, as mentioned earlier, patient safety must be the top priority. Therefore, a change to the ministerial draft should be highlighted positively, an amendment which states that not only the name of the profession from the home country, but also the German-speaking designation as set out in the notice of recognition, must be made. For example, if someone is a nutrition therapist in Germany, she does not have the same education or skills as a dietologist in Austria. A biomedicine may not carry out any activities in human medicine in Germany, but a biomedical analyst in Austria very well. In this respect, However, together, the introduction of a transparent, central register at the Federal Ministry would be quite helpful. In the field of administration, I consider the first draft to be useful the shift of authority from the district authorities to the head of state or from the head of state to the Federal Ministry, except for professions with legal representation of interests. The subject of professional identity has already been addressed. A point covered by an amendment concerns the possibility of a nursing internship for medical students. This is an opportunity I had, for example, in 1976 at the beginning of my training as a physiotherapist without any problems, but these doctors do not have today for legal reasons. Therefore, this regulation, which we decide today, should support those Austrians who want to complete their medical studies in Germany, because there is a condition for this nursing practice. But here too, patient safety plays a major role. This internship is only possible after completion of the theoretical part of the training module “Support in basic care”, which covers at least 100 hours. In summary, you can say: A sensible law in which patient safety is raised.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31362	Mr Doppler is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31383	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Points 10 and 11 of the EU Vocational Recognition Act: The EU requires that the EU Directive on the Recognition of Vocational Qualifications until 18. January 2016 to be transposed into national law. If the EU were only half committed to the asylum and refugee issue, we would have had a solution for a long time. This law must not be disregarded and forgotten – as Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein mentioned – that there were a lot of negative opinions, and that was not entirely unfounded, Minister. Also, some professional groups were almost not involved at all or too little at all. I don't think that's all right either. What is to be achieved by this professional recognition law? – “Implementation of international standards for the professions concerned and hence their national and international appreciation”. [[The speaker reads from a document:]] I have researched a little, and then it continues: “(...) adaptation to international standards through registration and facilitation of migration and the international exchange of information’. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is not a good development for our health system, because I think we are moving down here as far as the quality and care of patients is concerned. Our health system is a very good one, and we should thus maintain and develop it and not adjust any worse standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31423	Mrs Dr. Mückstein is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31444	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard a lot about what this is all about. I find it quite interesting that we can already instrumentalise as much as every subject to pursue refugee policy or attack the EU's refugee policy. So in order to link the EU's refugee policy with this partial access to the profession and these recognitions of partial competences, one has to go a long way and make a few detours. [[Abg. Doppler: Mrs Colleague! It's not about...!]] But yes, you do it again and again. We've already heard: It is an EU directive that we must implement. This is a professional recognition procedure, and it is about the recognition of partial competences, for example for special tasks in the high-level service of the health and health care professions, in hospital hygiene or in operational engineering. These are very special competences, which can also be applied in isolation. I think it would be important – and this was also mentioned several times in the opinions – to have a clear registration authority and also a central register containing what has been recognised and who has been recognised, and that there is also a regulation on the question of which qualifications are even recognizable, so that professionals can also orient themselves and have a good guide to it. It would also be important to us that the professional groups and the professional representatives are involved in the future recognition procedures. It is only now that the FPÖ's argument should be a little disillusioned: In the opinions, there is also the opposite view – for example by the medical assistants – that the training in Austria does not comply with the international standard or the standard in Germany, and that there must be an upgrading and improvement of the training, so that Austrian doctor assistants can also keep up with the German step. Such an approximation is probably not bad in both directions, and this permeability is what we wish for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31479	Next, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Oberhauser, spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31500	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This law, which we are creating here, serves to facilitate people's migration to work. Each of us, who has children or friends with children, knows that they are no longer the same as they were in my generation – we have studied here, have stayed here, have been looking for and working our job here – but that they really try to go abroad, that the work migration of students, but also of people who are pursuing well-educated professions, is simply a much bigger one. This law serves to make it easier for our children in another country to pursue their profession – that is, mutual recognition. Madam President, it has been explained very precisely: It will be very important that we look at how high the qualifications are and what we do – that is, partial professional recognition – because not every profession in each country is the same. Since Member Karlsböck spoke so vehemently for the prophylaxis assistants... – Even as an example of this great and great qualification, you allow me: [[Abg. Karlsböck: An example!]] I have now Googleed what such a job of the – oh so qualified – prophylaxis assistant brings in, and I have looked through a few job offers: €1,260 for a 40-hour week. So if they are so highly qualified, my appeal is also to the dentists and dentists to reward them accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31540	Next, Mr. Ing. Reported by Vogl on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31561	I suspect that, as soon as there is an EU on it, the reflex immediately comes: That's to be rejected. [[Deputies Belakovich-Jenewein and Kitzmüller:Well, so!]] – It is. You said it correctly, Mr Karlsböck: Of course, the professional world is subject to massive changes, and this leads to new fields of work which we now also have with us. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But the national governments have also criticized this!]] Now one can deal with these fears caused by the change in such a way that I say as a politician: I take these fears, strengthen them, and try to beat political capital out of them, or I try to find solutions. Fortunately, the Minister spoke quite correctly: The world is not only black and white, the world is also colorful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] That's nice too, that's good. Of course, in Austria we all know the Numerus-claus refugees from Germany, but there are also Austrian youths who decide to study medicine in Germany. That is why it is also important that we have a amendment tabled by Mr Spindelberger, who allows these students who are studying in Germany to do their three-month care in the future, which is necessary to complete this study, in a hospital in Austria. I think that this is the right answer to these changes: not to startle the fears that are there, but to find solutions for people. This EU directive is a great project and we should all work to support this project.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31621	Mrs Diesner-Wais is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31644	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have very well-trained professionals, both in Austria and in other EU countries, and this law makes it possible to work in other countries. A content assessment of the qualification and the other conditions is in the sense of our patients and serves their safety. As has already been pointed out, this is an EU directive that we are now implementing, which enables us to exercise the profession in other EU countries. It is also an administrative simplification. Part of the novel is the European professional card, which replaces the conventional recognition procedure and, as already mentioned, partial access. But the novelle also contains a warning mechanism, so that cases of a partial or entire professional ban are also reported in the other countries. I think it is important, in the context of our demographic development in Austria, to get back well-qualified staff. National states have a high level of responsibility – so we too – that the procedures for the safety of our patients are carried out thoroughly and quickly, so that this is not just a professional recognition procedure suffering. One point that is very important to me has already been raised and brought in as an amendment by the government parties: that is to say, students who study in Germany can also make their nursing internship in Austria. I already know two cases that it was not possible to do that. This is now possible with this law. In the future, they can also do their nursing practice in Austria if they also have the theoretical training for “support in basic care”. I am ending with a certain sentence so that we can see how good it is for our young people, because we want doctors in rural areas, too, in the future. If they do the internship with us before, then the probability is also higher that they will be friends here and that they will stay here. I have a young girl who wrote the following [[the speaker reads from a document]] I thank you very much and I am glad that my fellow students have kept my fate from the delay in studying from now on and that we are finally allowed to spend our holidays at home and work in our clinics. Thank you. - Quote. In this sense, everything is good.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31697	Next, Mrs Fichtinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31718	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard what this EU professional recognition law is about: It is a matter of national transposition of a directive, which regulates, inter alia, the comparability, the uniform contact points and the exchange of information between Member States in the field of health professions. In the case of health professionals in particular, comparability of training and standard harmonization is extremely important. So it is a concern to all of us here that injured and sick people everywhere can be treated with the best means and, above all, comparable treatment. In our fast-moving time, in which it is essential to respond flexibly to various influences, it is important to ensure transparent and efficient recognition of professional qualifications. A European professional card can simplify recognition procedures and thus minimise financial expenses. This benefits not only the authorities but also the professionals concerned. The personal mobility of workers is thus simplified and improved. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the biggest challenges for people who want to work in another EU country is that you simply know how to do something, where and when to get recognition in the profession. With today's implementation, we create the basis for an information exchange between Member States in this important field of work and thus a contact person is available to applicants. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With this EU directive, we are taking the step in the right direction. We create a basis for comparability and a basis for European standards, especially in such an important area as health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31760	The next item is the report by Mr Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31782	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Sometimes closes in the life of the circle. For me, the circle has closed today. Professional recognition also means internationalism. Where does most internationality take place in the field of medicine in Austria? – In my opinion, in general hospital, and there I was a doctor’s representative. As a young doctor, I was always standing in front of the pit – which is said to have been built again today – and asked myself: Is that gonna be a good thing or not? For years, as a young politician, I argued that the federal government and the city of Vienna finally cooperated there, and that was never possible. Just today, one has given the AKH a long-term perspective, and the AKH is the most important hospital in Austria. We're at 59th place in the world. This is a very good place at the Med-Unis, although the medical university has only existed for ten years. In the last ten years, there has been a threefold increase in research, which is also true of internationalism. There are 100,000 operations there each year, there are 104,000 hospital stays, and 550,000 patients visit the ambulances. That's a really impressive performance, and such a performance needs continuity. I was at the faculty lecture last week, and I felt for the first time – I think some doctors are more at home in the raunzer zone and I'm sorry about what's all bad – so really a kind of start-up mood, namely that They want to play in the World League. There was suddenly no more talk of any salary demands and of what is terrible, but they have said that they want to be among the best 20 of the world, that Stanford is the number one, but that there is much less operation and only one seventh of the students are trained there – there are many arguments – and that they want to go straight ahead. I was very impressed by what happened to internationality that they said they wanted to be the Third Vienna Medical School. The first was – for those who don't know – van Switen, the second went until World War II, when about 50 percent – especially the Jewish doctors – were driven and also killed. With these long-term contracts, which total €2.2 billion, the Third Vienna Medical School could now be established. The doctors trust it there, and not us. This will bring internationality, because at present doctors are still driving to the USA, because they are not otherwise called. Then really many doctors from abroad will come to us to learn from us. I think that was a good day today, and for me the circle closed – from when I was a small doctor at the AKH until today.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31830	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Draft concerning 1. EU Vocational Recognition Act Health professionals 2016 with title and entrance in 972 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by the majority and thus at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Draft concerning 2. EU Vocational Recognition Act Health professionals 2016 including title and entry in 973 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[22:23:22]] 12. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (912 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas (974 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1363/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on human treatment of patients and those in need (975 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1478/A(E) by Mrs Ulrike Weigerstorfer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Multiprofessional and multimodal treatment of acute and chronic pain’ (976 d.a.) 15. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 879/A(E) by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, Members and colleagues on the merger of social security schemes (977 D.B.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1484/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the performance report of health insurance companies (978 d.b.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1006/A(E) by Mr Mag. Aygül Berivan Aslan, colleagues on gender health and health report (979 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1339/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on protection and information obligations under the Tuberculosis Act and the Epidemic Law (980 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e31986	We shall now proceed to items 12 to 18 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Karlsböck was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32016	Madam President. Minister! Mr Rasinger! This goes smoothly – let us talk about the AKH and what has been announced here today! First of all, however, I come very briefly to a part of the convoluted, namely the willingness to call in central hospitals. In my opinion, this is a direct consequence of last year's hospital working time law, because we are now trying more or less to enter this savings channel. The content of this law is that on the one hand, core areas of medicine, such as internal, surgery and the like, will continue to be occupied with a specialist in a primary hospital. On the other hand, however, the hospital line for the so-called margin compartments – whatever that will be – can't be precisely defined, I define it with eyes, ENT, but unfortunately also radiation therapy – decide to leave the doctors at home in the sense of a reputation. I think this is a deterioration for the patient – especially in the Greater Vienna region – and we are now also at the AKH. It's all right what's been said today. It is great that there has really been an agreement and that abuses that have long existed between the city of Vienna and the Federation have been eliminated and a common path is taken. But we must not forget one thing: In my opinion, there is a lot of things built on sand. I would like to make the following point: We have reduced working time with the Working Time Act on the one hand, but on the other hand we have not increased the workforce. Now it will also be in the AKH that the workforce with 1,500 – as it is so beautiful – is full-time equivalent, i.e. full-time jobs, is covered. Furthermore, the AKH will continue to accept up to 25 percent of all emergencies, i.e. the ambulances will continue to be overcrowded. And now this comes with the sand building – that's in there and it's all good and beautiful –: It is hoped that these emergencies will then be transferred to the first supply centres. You know exactly why we're against it. We are vehemently opposed, the medical profession too is opposed. Today, we cannot in any way raise the first supply centres planned in the peripheral districts. Then why should this happen in the near future? Furthermore, one has to say that the hospital concept in Vienna, which was presented last week, is also built on sand. We have a closure of departments. We'll send patients all over the city. It will completely crush the traditional, the grown structure in the Greater region of Vienna. Under the terms of quality assurance and merger, there are some things here, I fear, that will be changed to the worse. In Vienna, this concept also includes the Nord Hospital. Only yesterday did our party in Vienna pass on the scandalous conditions we have long discovered to the Court of Auditors because we say – and we see that too – that the hospital will not be completed in the foreseeable future. Now there is even a total demolition in the room and the consideration that new ones are being built. So the timetables, the structures, all this is not right and is built on sand, although the approach would be there. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I would only ask for more fairness in the discussion because – once again, and I will come back to it again and again – if you really are 25 percent less in If we want the ambulances, then we finally have to go to get doctors to hire doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32077	Mr Spindelberger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32098	Mr. Dr. Karlsböck, you can do anything wrong, and if you say that the willingness to call doesn't bring anything like that and everything gets worse, then I have to say: If, with this innovation of the Hospital and Health Schools Act, we also allow the call in future for university clinics, such as in Graz, Innsbruck or Vienna, then this is only an adjustment of what is already going on and going on in countless other hospitals, namely the possibility of a professional call. So far, it is so – as we do not have to think about anything – that in the central hospitals, in other words at the university clinics, there must be, among other things, the presence of all relevant special subjects, and that is really more than exaggeration. I really want to relativize your black painting, because no one in Austria needs to be afraid in the future if he is in a hospital that there is no high-quality medical care. In fact, we have clearly stated in the Health Committee that this regulation covers only those areas in which patient care cannot be affected. Special compartments directly affected in the event of an emergency or complications are clearly excluded from this call. I'd like to come to another thing. In the context of the revision of the Health and Health Organization Act, it is clear that the operation of facilities for the collection and delivery of breast milk is limited, above all for hygienic reasons, to those hospitals in which the Departments of Women's Medicine and Obstetrics are operated. That is good, because if I look into the United States, Canada or also the Federal Republic of Germany, I can only say: Put your fingers away from such risky shops as the mother’s milk market! In these countries you can buy 100 millilitres of pumped, frozen and sterile packed breast milk on the Internet by €450 – everyone can read about it. It's really grotesque how the whole thing goes. On the one hand, although the woman offering breast milk must indicate the age of her child and her postal code, the medical data are all made on a voluntary basis. If it might say that she's not taking drugs, I can believe it or not believe it. I can't understand that at all. That is why I believe that such practices, as they are more and more common in Germany, are common. Giving a foreign mother milk to another child without complying with the necessary safety and hygiene standards is absolutely irresponsible for me because we know that severe diseases such as HIV, hepatitis or syphilis can be transmitted via breast milk. That's why I have a clear no.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32132	Next, Mrs. Dr. Mückstein is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32155	There are several issues to deal with, and I come first to the novel of the Hospital and Spa Act. We will not agree to this. I join in with regard to the willingness to call. I believe, Mr Spindelberger, that one cannot necessarily talk about a possibility here, because from our point of view – and so I believe this, also the doctors concerned in hospitals – is a saving and saving measure, because the miscarriage that has taken place around the Medical Working Time Act has brought this hospital fiasko, which has arisen due to this unprepared situation, very precarious situations into hospitals, and eventually this emergency measure, the call of the specialists, became necessary. This is often disputed, and I can only tell you that I think we should really take the situation in the hospitals in Austria seriously. The doctors and doctors in the hospitals are apparently at the limit, and one should not introduce additional loads because otherwise proven systems will be destroyed and the motivation of the really excellent doctors is increasingly lost. In our view, the draft law is also imprecise, which has also been laid down several times in the opinions. Apparently it's the same way that you have to be able to reach the hospital within 20 minutes. This is a problem for some doctors regarding their place of residence. The question of payment is also unclear. Apparently, you are only paid if you are actually called, although you have to have the call before. It is also to be feared that training doctors will come into an over-examination situation, where complication management may be further interpreted due to the need for savings. This Committee also notes that patient care should not be affected by this, is perhaps well meant, but a little soft. What does that mean? – Of course, patient care should not be affected, but this does not ensure that there is no trade in the border area in the sense of cost savings. What we like about this bill – and this is very positive, and it must also be said that what lasts for a long time is finally going to be good – is the thing with the assistance dogs and therapy dogs, namely that they are now also allowed in hospitals. This will certainly help many people to maintain their independence, even when they come to the hospital. The Committee rejected the request made by the colleague, Rejectorstorfer, to establish multimodal pain therapy. This too is incomprehensible to us and, in my opinion, highly unreasonable. 1.8 million people are affected by chronic pain. These are particularly chronic cross pains, back pains, rheumatic diseases and joint diseases. This was also one of the top ten topics in the patient survey 2014. Medicine would have a good way to treat it. These treatments have developed very well in recent years. Patients in these areas also have a right to pain therapy, but because of the lack of structural anchoring of pain therapy in Austria, these structures have been increasingly reduced lately. There were incisive savings – For example, in acute pain service – and many pain ambulances were stopped. We now have less than 40 pain ambulances, some of which offer no more than three hours of ordination a week. The Austrian pain society says – and this seems to be very well proven – that about three quarters of chronic pain patients in Austria do not receive adequate care. The established area cannot absorb this; there is too little time, that is not treated either. Treatment of pain patients is very time-consuming, and there is also a lack of professional competence. This is where Mr Rasinger and I are not quite agreeing. I think – and this is also my experience – that pain therapy in many cases needs a truly independent professional competence and training. Our demand is the planned, graduated, multimodal care, i.e. multi-professional treatment – even non-medical therapy, physical therapy, psychotherapy, relaxation training. We know that this is a very good way to facilitate pain patients' suffering. It is also important for me to speak on our request for gender health. The Court of Auditors has argued that the division of responsibilities and reporting to two ministries – women and children in the Ministry of Health and Men in the Ministry of Social Affairs – is not very efficient. This is also not transparent and does not serve the cause in particular. This is particularly important to us because of women's health. There was a report in 2010/2011 and, as it was to be feared, no improvement ever since. We know that women in heart attack, diabetes, mental illness or drug side effects are very seriously disadvantaged and that we are far from a clear commitment to equal health for women. I think it would be very, very important to invest in this area, because Austria clearly needs a follow-up.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32225	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32247	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Continue the AKH story!]] Now comes the continuation: History AKH, the second. As a young doctor at the AKH, I learned everything – wait! – except for two things, namely pain and lungs. [[general cheerfulness as well as intermediate calls at ÖVP and FPÖ]] Then I let myself down in Meidling, and the first patient who comes has headache, the second has cross pain – and so it went all day. I only saved myself with voltars or some stuff about the rounds, and that was kind of embarrassing. [[General hustle and bustle.]] That was a few years ago – I've been settled for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] I then sent the people to the specialist, and in Meidling it was so that it took six weeks for you to get an appointment at the orthopaedics. The next day people were back because they still had headaches and the appointment was only in six weeks. So I tried hard to start a learning process with me and took courses. Today I do this very well. I have to tell you: Pain is an integral part of medical treatment. I do not share your opinion at all, ladies and gentlemen, that you need your own specialist for every pain. You might need three extreme centers in Austria. You also need pain ambulances to make this happen in the hospital. You also need – it's actually a staircasenwitz – practices where pain is treated multimodally with psychologists, physiotherapists and doctors. I find it interesting that the former Minister of Health Kdolsky is now privately established as a pain therapist. This is not a great thing for Austrian pain therapy. [[Abg. Fekter: She learned just as well as you do!]] All in all, I have to say it's gotten better. I shuddered at the time when I issued my first morphine recipe. Today you can simply do this, and I believe that the progress of medicine is often much faster than we do with our systems. Of course, we need these pain ambulances at last. It can't be that a hospital says it's a pain ambulance when it keeps open for three hours a week. It is also not happening if one is locked in by two pain services in the AKH – apologies: saved. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The one and the other is not good!]] It is really not done because good pain therapy of course also needs time and attention. That is, we need to rethink at all levels in the system. It is also not happening when the cash registers simply prevent some medications and simply de facto – like the tapentadol, the Targin, the dronabinol, like the Versatis patch. I've given this a specific name now, if someone calls me from the cash register: This is in marginal areas of costs, and I think that should not be, because everyone who has once had a whole weekend of toothache knows what pain for the psyche means, knows what this sensitivity means. I don't think patients often defend themselves – I don't think so, I know – but we all become patients once. That is why I think we should already devote ourselves to the subject of pain, at a high level and not as I started. The pain and lung did not exist as a doctor in my young years, but only the platelet count. I'd like to stop that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32334	Mr Mag. Loacker's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32355	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I hate to interrupt the series “The Life and Me” by Dr. Erwin Rasinger. [[General cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] There are several issues on this agenda, and I would like to draw attention to one point, namely my request for the performance report of the health insurance companies. In recent years, the financial reserves of the health insurance companies have become exciting, with the financial assets of the local health telephone increasing from € 680 million in 2010 to € 1.3 billion in 2014. In four years, therefore, the financial assets of the local health telephone doubled. However, if at the same time one follows the debate of how long the patients are waiting for an MRI or CT examination, or if we discuss whether the psychotherapeutic care is adequately available, then one asks what it is about – when there are reserves on the one hand, on the other hand, the patients do not have the care they need. If you look at the way in which these topics are handled, it is a lottery game, depending on where I live and what profession I have, because I am then served by different cash offices with different benefits and my doctor may be given different rewards. The fairy tale of single-class medicine is told again and again, and in reality, when we look closely, we have 20 different classes of patients, because depending on which checkout I am, quite different rules apply to me, from the private patient to the BVA and SVA insured persons, until the end of the table the Tyroleans and then the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse come. On and on, one should think that the people in this country all have a claim to the same care, but it is a lottery in the blind flight, it is a lucky question, depending on where I am at home. There are different scarcityes, there are different self-holds, there is a different supply, and although we have just celebrated 60 years ASVG, a law for all, the benefits are different. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You weren't there at all!]] Therefore, our demand: If the cash registers already do different, then it should also be regularly collected, reported and compared to which cash registers actually do something. With such a data base and also recurring rankings, transparency can be brought into the health system, and then one could also see which cashier manages successfully and which does not. There are certainly structural differences among the population as regards the various cash registers. Of course you can also talk about these, but it is important to make the differences visible and clear with the myth of single-class medicine. I therefore ask you to support a performance report from the health insurance companies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32401	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32422	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker, this is now the fifth or sixth time that you have justified your claim. I told you last time: All these facts exist. They are also published everywhere in the field of self-government. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But not in a comparable way!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] There are performance reports, there is in every social security scheme, in every CCC every year a very precise list, in which all this, which you demand here, is published finely clean. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Then you can sum it up anyway!]] I would particularly like to deal with the request made by the Liberals, in which the demand is raised for the first time, but may the social security schemes and the local health telephone be put together. It is interesting to read the reasons for the request, and I would like to quote it. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, you write: “At present, the system of Austrian social security schemes with its 22 self-employed institutions is no longer expensive, inefficient and organisational. It is primarily used to maintain a functionary rule in red and black and to provide care jobs for semi-trailers.” [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's all right!]] The example of the Oberösterreichische Landeskrankenkasse: There's a freeman on the board of directors. Mr Knoll is a member of the Board of Directors at the Landeskrankenkasse in Upper Austria, and I assume you are also saying that Mr Knoll. I will inform him tomorrow and say, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein in Parliament says: Mr Knoll, you are incapable and all possible. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Please! It's not inside! It's inside, it's a supply post!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian social security system is not a supply area. I know the activity there very well, and the social security schemes, and in particular the local health telephone, do huge things in this Republic. It is unique, not only in Austria, but across Europe and the world. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: You have to put them together!]] It is unique that all people who have their proper residence in that country are covered by this system and are socially insured. That's unique. Upland, land, no matter where you are in Europe or around the world, we are actually admired for our system. Only 3 percent of the revenue goes to the administration, 97 percent of the revenue ultimately goes directly in the form of benefits to the insured. I would therefore like to thank all the staff members, especially all of them in the field of self-government, very much for their commitment. And ladies and gentlemen of the Freeman: We would like to draw attention to the most serious acts of indifference, which have also been recorded in this request. The people who work there certainly didn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32534	Mrs Weigerstorfer is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32556	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! First of all, a word about the Federal Act amending the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas: We will, of course, agree with this by the Stronach team. To this end, I would like to mention particularly positively the fact that this has at last created a facilitation for people with disabilities. It's about those who need an assistant dog. It's clear: In many areas in hospitals and so on, this is obviously not feasible for hygienic reasons, but in waiting rooms et cetera I am very glad that we have a relaxation and can help these disabled people. This is a great positive aspect of this law. Now I would like to devote myself to the request concerning acute and chronic pain. All of you, all political groups, have received a call for help, before very many weeks, namely from the Austrian pain society. It has all been written here in Parliament to draw attention to this situation of pain patients. Each of you should have actually received such a letter. We are not talking about a handful of people; it is about 1.5 million to 2 million people who are affected by this. Because of this cry for help, we said: We would like to work for this and be a voice pipe for these people. This request, which is available here, shows the concerns and demands of the Austrian pain society. I would be really pleased if we could perhaps reconsider this proposal together or perhaps agree to it today. It is simply a matter of rethinking the contents again and of ensuring that those people who have chronic pain can also legally provide a certain supply. This is about human and temporary things, but the current closures or massive reductions in the offer for these people through deletions must be further reduced, as we find, certainly not the right way. The number of pain patients will continue to increase. Patients with acute pain are not provided as adequately as they were used to, nor will a chronisation of pain be discontinued. It's not like you'd only been listening to this society, but you've also looked a little at the neighbouring countries. The same is true of legislation in Germany, Belgium and Italy. As I said, the Austrian pain patients – I can repeat the number here again, that is not a handful, even for a handful of people – 1.5 million to 2 million people have really earned our support through proper legislation. I hope that we will rethink this proposal together and act in the sense of these pain patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32607	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Oberhauser will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32628	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to comment on the question of willingness to call in the central hospitals. That was also a hot discussion, I say, in the Committee. Nevertheless, we have also made this point that it is perfectly clear to us that when patient care is not at risk, there can only be a call for advice. Now one can explain this very differently – the concerns are great, I understand – and can say that the hope of some was also great for telephone willingness, and – you should not believe it – quite from departments of which I could not really imagine. We have clearly ruled out the question of willingness to call in heart surgery with our committee's stand for Austria, which I am pleased with. I used my phone again and looked up: In Germany, the Uniklinik Würzburg writes in the official description that they have an assistant in the service and a heart surgeon in a call. The heart centre of the Uniklinik Köln has a 24-hour call on seven days a week. - That's something we don't want. The question is whether, for example, a specialist in tropical medicine must be present in the hospital without interruption. I think we can discuss this. We have made a statement, I am behind it, and I am also glad that we have done so, as the debate on call willingness here in Parliament has a long history. I just remember that Liesl Pittermann was one of those who acted very vehemently when it came to the introduction of reputations. Meanwhile, we have moved to a different level. However, I believe that what we have written here and the clarification that we have made, we have also made sure that the patients are safe. What was still a subject was the question of women's health and the fear that in women's health – I think it came from you – nothing has gone on. [[in the direction of the Abg. Mückstein]] Since the last female health report was prepared – the next one will come in 2017 – there is a professorship for Gender Medicine at the AKH. That is, women’s health – something that we have discussed for a very long time, namely whether women are “smaller men” or whether women can be treated differently in medicine – has clearly turned to the fact that women are not “smaller men” – we know that from the studies in which they have simply reduced weight and said it will fit – and there is now a focus on it. Together with the Ministry of Women, my home is currently working out an action plan for women's health, which will address exactly the following three target groups: young women, women in working life and women outside work, older women speak. We also want to present this at the latest in 2017. That is to say, there is also a lot going on in these questions. To Mr Rasinger: I don't know how you are, ladies and gentlemen, but I always find this very impressive when Erwin Rasinger describes how he manages his professional life. I think we all know “Dr. House, and I think Erwin would have a series entitled “Dr. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32687	Mrs Schittenhelm is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32708	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, I am a fan of the “Dr. House” series – just so much for it: It's a bad man and not a problem. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can also see positively the revision of the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas. I see it as an increase in the efficiency of the organisation and also in staff policy, which, of course, is an essential factor. There is already a professional reputation in the primary hospitals and in the future there will also be in the central hospitals. You'll see how it develops. I know, from the point of view of the doctors, a lot of things are different. I see this from the point of view of patients. It's true, there's been a lot of criticism in advance – and they're still there – because you've been worried that the quality of medical care will not be guaranteed. However, I am very confident that this new willingness to call is very possible, as the departments of intensive medicine, surgery, internal medicine and especially child and youth medicine must be occupied at all times and above all must be assured that the corresponding number of specialists is on-site and that complications management and emergency care are not left to gymnasticians. My colleague Marcus Franz, who has worked in the hospital in this area for many years, will say something to this effect. I would also like to say something about Mr Aslan's request from the Greens concerning gender medicine: We have an opinion. Gender health simply needs this health report as a basis. [[Abg. Singer: What is gender health? I thought it was a social sex!]] I am very sorry that this was rejected in the Health Committee, and I am confident that the Federal Minister knows very well – not only because she always listens well – that we need a comprehensive health report, as the Swiss have, so that there is no difference. In the field of health, children, women and young people are concerned; the area of men is located in the Ministry of Social Affairs. I do not know what history this has come from, but a comprehensive picture can only be given if we also have this basis for a health policy action and research area, which we define and on which we can build. If we really take gender medicine for women and men seriously, it simply needs this basis. As I said, I am very confident that it will continue to be so in the future – not only because it is proposed by the Court of Auditors as efficient, but also because, above all, in the major areas of crisis, such as cardiovascular diseases and, above all, those risks in which biological factors play a role, such as breast cancer and prostate cancer, it is quite simply a need to make further progress as quickly as possible, so that we can move on the European stage too. In this sense, Mrs Federal Minister, I hope that we can tackle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32754	Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32775	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly on the topic of callability: Mrs Minister, I already recognise and believe that you are serious about this, but the question will always be how this will ultimately be interpreted in hospitals. This remains open, even if there is a well-intentioned committee, but as we know, paper is patient. So you have to ask the following question honestly: How is that interpreted? The following is to be said – and this is also a criticism that we have of course –: We passed the Medical Working Time Act a little over a year ago, and of course this has led to problems because no more staff is available. I think that is, of course, a response to that. But we can't do it very easily, because we don't really need it in Austria, because we don't want it either, because it doesn't have a tradition in our grown system. That is why I think that this criticism is quite justified. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Now I would like to say something to Mr Schopf: Mr Schopf, you have now mentioned some name – I do not know the colleagues who are there... [[Abg. Keck:... Austria...!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Yes, yes! I am leaving out all the names now, because, look, you know very well that the board of directors is on the social partners and on the results of the elections. But that is exactly the point we are criticizing. If the liberal workers in Upper Austria are just as strong, they are entitled to it by law – point. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Keck.]] That doesn't mean I consider the system to be the right one for myself. But I say it again: Let us go to the heart of the request, instead of now talking about the explanatory statement that is not at all agreed on. It is also about the fact that we have various health insurance companies with different performance aspects. This autumn, in the autumn of 2016, I am here in this house for ten years, and since I have been in the house, I have heard from a wide variety of sides – the then Minister of Health Kdolsky has been mentioned today – that one aims to achieve a performance harmonisation. There's no such thing to this day. In between, there was the Minister of Health Stöger, who said that each region has its own problems. I don't see that, because the performance harmonisation should actually be through for a long time – but it's not. Austria is not so large; we do not need so many health insurance funds. In my opinion, there would be a rich one: For all people the same performance is the best transparency. If you agree, you could also reject Mr Loacker's request, because then you say that it is the same for everyone instead of coming here and saying: We don't need the Loacker's request either, because that's all there is! – This may be true, but it is not comparable in detail, because every social insurance company publishes completely different things. This is not a transparency for the normal consumer, and I therefore believe that both of these requests have a right of course.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32827	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32848	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, we are also discussing a motion for a resolution that deals – for the second time – with the subject of dealing with tuberculosis cases. This is the basic question that we have already discussed here in the House: Do you make cases of tuberculosis public or not? The Tuberculosis Act is clear in this regard, because it is based on a duty of silence, that is, that all that has been experienced in the exercise of one's profession is to be treated confidentially, that there is silence to be true. An exception to this obligation of confidentiality exists only if public health or judicial care interests justify it. It is therefore up to the authorities to create a fair balance between the public's right to information and the protection and respect for privacy, and this, of course, is particularly true when children and young people are affected. We have already discussed this example here in Parliament: In June of last year, tuberculosis cases have appeared at Vienna schools. The most important thing was that the health authorities have acted correctly, that studies have been carried out, that environmental studies have been conducted, that the X-ray bus has been on site, and that the patients concerned have been informed. Unfortunately, what did not work then and actually led to a tragedy was the fact that a newspaper in Vienna called a affected school, with all the problems that have arisen for the students who were healthy. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: A newspaper!]] Many were also indirectly attracted to it. There were even questions at a sports festival about whether the healthy students could actually use the shower cabin at all or whether the students could consume drinks, as the issue of the drinks might even lead to an infection, although of course this could not be the case. The basic requirement is therefore a duty of confidentiality, a need for protection for people – and especially for children and young people. Of course, it is necessary to distinguish between public information, including information provided by the health authorities, in which information on the latest scientific knowledge, on disease images and personal protection measures is passed on. This is about public information, but in terms of everything else, I think it is most important to help people as well as patients really quickly, quickly and safely. The Public Procuratorate has found that these cases are really best treated in Austria and that the processes also work very well.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32885	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32906	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Yes, Mr Commissioner, he is a very hard-working Member, and the subject is of course also important, which is out of question. [[Call the ÖVP: That one, too?- Oh, my God!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the points 12 to 18 are in the health field. Point 12 is the change to the health and health insurance law regarding the willingness to call for professional staff in central hospitals – we have already heard this today. In the future, there will be similar regulations in central hospitals, such as in the AKH, as in central hospitals. It is very important to note that central subjects, such as those already addressed by colleague Karlsböck – intensive medicine, surgery, anaesthesia, internal medicine, child and youth medicine, gynecology, radiology – must also be professionally occupied during the night and on Sundays and holidays. I ask you, Mrs Minister: For example, what about the ENT department? – Of course, this is also an important department. We all know that children often have post-mortem bleeding after the tone-salt operations – almond operations, and that can be life-threatening. Mrs Minister, with all appreciation, I am not going to let go of the feeling that there is an attempt to introduce or at least to think about a general willingness to call. That would be the absolutely wrong way. I don't think that this development is a good one. If too little money is available – I think Mr. Belakovich has referred to it – there is just this possibility at point 15 to allow the merger of social security funds. This would be enough money, and then we would no longer need to talk about the willingness to call, because then the services could be done as before, for the benefit of the patients. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32940	Mr Dr Franz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e32961	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, a few sentences on the call: As a former hospital director and senior doctor, who has also made a call for years, I can guarantee that no patient will be harmed by the call. So far, it has been avoided here that a doctor, a trained emergency physician, is always in the house. Especially in the AKH there is a separate department for emergency medicine; there are people in the service who are familiar with emergencies, better than the specialists of the other relevant subjects, who are not about vital threats, because an emergency on a skin department at 2 o'clock in the night will not be a skin emergency, but usually a heart or lung emergency or a pain problem, but rather no problem of the specialist in skin medicine. Therefore, it is absolutely to be represented, and even to ensure that he has qualified specialists the next day, in the sense of the patients, that not all possible specialists of all possible subjects are present during the night. This is a waste of resources and, last but not least, other countries have taken different ways. The exits are absolutely good, there are studies, comparative observations. So there's no need to fear anyone, and you're not supposed to paint a devil on the wall. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: So quickly you become a government politician!]] [[Abg. Mückstein: You have to tell your colleagues!]] Secondly, the request made by the Stronach team on anchoring pain treatment in the law: This is a good suggestion, only the formulation is not ideal from my point of view, because if we implement it as required by the Stronach team, then there will be a bureaucracy of pain treatment. We don't want to. What we already want is to improve the treatment of chronic pain patients, because they are increasing every day. Erwin Rasinger told it from the ordination, I led a hospital in which a pain department and a pain clinic were running, and there was also the problem that is going on and going on in the health system, namely in terms of personnel resources and financial resources. That's why we have to take care of ourselves. We from the ÖVP like to accept the suggestion. For us, this has always been an important issue, but I hereby declare it a priority health policy issue for the ÖVP to improve pain treatment in Austria, and we will help to make it much better for patients, for those affected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33011	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33032	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to refer once again to the amendment concerning the taking of assistance dogs in hospitals. For those who do not know what exactly is an aid dog, I would like to explain briefly how important assistance dogs are for people with disabilities. Assistant dogs can be blind dogs, signal dogs, service dogs, or therapy dogs, and they are trained to help people with disabilities to cope with their everyday lives. You're allowed to be taken, that's since 1. In January 2015, it was regulated by law. It is also precisely what training needs to be done and how the examination should be carried out. So we have a good regulation, which ensures that the dogs are also trained in quality, that there is a good relationship between the owner, the owner and the dog, that there is also a good teamwork with these assistance dogs, which are very important for self-determination and for the participation of people with disabilities, which are a very important – under quotation – “help” for people with disabilities to deal with their daily lives. Today, we agree that these assistance dogs may also be taken with us in hospitals, and I believe that this is really a great step forward. I say a thank you, Mrs. Minister, that this is going to be possible, because that was a weak point about taking dogs, and this is being settled today. I really say thank you for that. I would like to make a brief appeal to the economy, because now there is also Mr Peter Haubnerhier: Dogs may also be taken in the food trade, and there is a plaque from the Chamber of Commerce, which is called “welcome dogs”. This is very important – thank you for it too – but it is only a few times that not all the big chains put on these plaques and that the employees may not know exactly how to deal with these assistance dogs and the owners. It is therefore time and again difficult situations for people with disabilities in food chains – I do not want to name any names now. Perhaps you can influence from the Chamber of Commerce once again that you also know in the shops that assistance dogs can be taken into the shops – even without muzzle, that is also regulated. I believe that this would be a very important decision for people with disabilities, and perhaps you can work on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33075	Mr Singer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33097	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many points of this debate, enriched by personal experience, have already been discussed – a point not yet, namely Mr Belakovich-Jenewein's request concerning human treatment with patients and people in need of care. In this application, a case in the field of health and care in the city of Vienna is described. It is about various facilities and their dealings with those in need. In particular, it is criticized how this is handled and called for the restoration of a humane and legal-compliant approach to patients and caregivers. The case described in detail in the application is seen from our point of view as an individual case and as a special theme of the city of Vienna. There is no competence of Parliament. Therefore, as in the Health Committee, we will not give our approval to the request. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I would like to say fundamentals about health and care work: We can be proud and grateful that so many women and men are devoted to this work, the service to sick and needy people. From my point of view, great things are being done, a great service to our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33133	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, on agenda item 12: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on Hospitals and Hospitals, together with the title and receipt in 974 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – In turn, this is the majority. This draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 975 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 976 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 977 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 978 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 979 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 980 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. [[23:15:37]] 19. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1480/A(E) by Mrs Ulrike Weigerstorfer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Absolute prohibition on the sale of dog and cat cubs in zoo trades’ (981 d.e.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33291	We're coming to 19. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Riemer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33319	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Refuserstorfer, for having managed to make a request to Parliament that has to do with animal welfare. If you look at the application, it says: “The Federal Minister for Health is asked to amend the animal husbandry regulation in order to ensure that the sale of dog and cat dolls in zoological trades is definitely prohibited.” We have been very interested in this in the Committee and have discussed it very interestingly. What's she writing in there? – On the one hand, as far as zoo-business and breeders are concerned, it notes that the breeding animals are healthy and that in animals from zoo-acting, diseases are more likely to occur. This also means that the animals are vaccinated either too early, not at all or too late. If you talk to veterinarians, you can say: Yeah, that's right. She speaks of the disappointment of many people who have a sick animal, of suffering, of animal suffering, of families, of money they invest. Of course, that's always a game of mourning. It also regrets the fact that the eight-week period is often not observed and that some zoo-terrorisms do not legally sell the animals. After consultation with veterinarians: Yeah, that's right, so you can only sign that. Therefore, from its point of view, it is of course unfortunate that the absolute ban on the sale of dogs and cats in zoo trades was abolished in 2008. Now you have to ask yourself: What's so special about these animal cubs? In this case one would have to see the dog as an economic factor. If It is calculated that the age-old friendship with these animals is now in such a way that there are about 560 000 dogs in Austria, each with an effort of between 1 000 and 1 500 €, then 680 million € are spent per year. If you calculate that almost a million Austrians live with dogs in a household, you have to note that dogs today play a role in sales decisions everywhere. The plea by Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, who has really brought a whole plea for blind dogs, signal dogs and assistance dogs, could now be supplemented and also mentioned the trace dogs, dog with the police, the federal army, for that there are 11 000 specialized dogs, training costs: € 9.5 million. That means C.G. Young and Sigmund Freud takes over: Only what animals mean for old people and children – emotional bonds et cetera – corresponds to a value of approximately €600 million. There you can say that the dog shop is €1.2 billion in the year, and there are already deducted costs due to bites and what society pays for animal shelters. It should be noted that: The Cynologists say that the animal acts are not suitable, the animal welfare associations say that and the ombudsman’s office is also in line with this. I just think: Animals are not goods, they are sentient living beings. It pays off to talk to them more often and about them. Dogs as economic leaders, dogs as assistants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33377	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33398	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Since it is forbidden to sell dogs and cats in zoo shops in Austria, the trade has shifted to the Internet: For 300 to 1 000 € the puppies are offered. - Quote. Without medical care, these poor illegally bred animals are smuggled across the border in a cardboard manner since it is forbidden to sell these animals in zoo acts. - Quote. These are just two newspaper articles from 2007, there are fifty of them, and these were not any people who wrote this, but for example the animal protection officer from Salzburg, who wrote the one, and the animal protection officer from Vorarlberg. That is to say, precisely these animal protection officers have called for the re-introduction of the sale of dog and cat puppies in zoo acts, because illegal trade has been so massively strengthened. If you look at the request of my colleague, Refuserstorfer, she writes: Dog and cat cubs acquired in zoo-trades are statistically more sick than their fellows. They are often separated too early from their mother and consequently vaccinated too early, false or not at all. The colleague writes: But now again and again there are cases where puppies have been vaccinated much too early or where diseases have been concealed during the sale of the animal in a zoo trade, or puppies who have the minimum age required. have not yet reached eight weeks, but have been offered for sale in zoo trades. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no ten zoo trades in Austria – you can find out about the chambers and the authorities – you need a permit to sell such dog and cat cubs in zoo stores – which these dog and cat cubs are allowed to sell. If my colleague, Mr Vertigerstorfer, knows these zoo-trades, where all these points apply, you may call them here and today, because these zoo-trades are immediately appropriate, because they do not comply with laws. What have we decided in Parliament when we allowed these dog and cat dolls to be sold in zoo trades? – It means that each of these zoos must have a contract with a veterinarian. This veterinarian must be required to examine newly introduced animals within two working days. The trader shall have a documentation requirement, a vaccination certificate or an EU home card, the name and address of the breeder, if the pupe comes from a breeder, shall be known, as well as the name and address of all intermediaries, date and entry in the zoo trade and, and, and. So there is a really broad edition for these zoo-trades, and, for me, that's the most important thing, there has to be a control of animal husbandry. Zoological and animal pensions shall be controlled at least once a year by a control body, spoken by an official veterinarian or by a veterinarian appointed by the national government, and the control body shall not be in any economic dependence relation to the zoo-business. That means they are really being controlled. Your colleague, Mr Vertigerstorfer, once again, if you know how to deal with zoos, who meet exactly these points you are writing here, that is to say, a massive breach of the Animal Protection Act, then you call here and today, you come here after all, the names of these zoo-trades! I personally will then show these zoo-trades.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33463	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33484	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We support the request made by Mrs Weigerstorfer. My previous speaker mentioned it, the sale of dogs and cats in zoo trades was already prohibited in Austria, and in 2008 this ban was abolished. The reasons you referred to were that it tried to stop trade and sales over the Internet and in the trunks. Only that didn't work out the way you imagined it. It is still true that even from a animal-protection point of view, zoo-trades are not the appropriate places for the attitude of dogs and cats. Also Austrian breeders don't like to sell their dogs and cats about zoo trades. We often have problems when dogs and cats are bought, because there are diseases, where you don't know where the animals actually come from, whether they got away from the mother too early and caused diseases. Many animal welfare organisations, including the ombudsman’s office, support this claim and believe that too little has been done here and that the ban was not sufficient in 2008 to ensure the animal welfare status of dogs and cats and to ensure proper sale, so that the animal owners also know exactly where the animals came from and whether there have been sufficient vaccinations, and in the future they can also be well cared for. It needs, I think, information campaigns as far as the purchase of dogs and cats is concerned. However, in the interests of animal welfare, we also support the request made by the colleague for refusal to reintroduce the ban on the sale of dogs and cats in the zoo trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33526	The honourable Member has now been informed of the many points he has raised. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33548	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Yeah, it's late, yeah, we have other problems, and yes, now we're talking about dogs and cats. But I tell you, yes, I am proud that I can also address these issues here, because that is a certain respect for living beings, creatures of God. It's a shame that these topics don't always find more listening here again and again. It is now about withdrawing this abolished ban and prohibiting the dog puppies and cat puppies in the zoo trades. It's a very simple sentence: Animals must not be goods! Here we have created exceptions again, here we have introduced a lot of bureaucracy and we have taken this special permit, so much so as a sacrifice to these animals, so that we can get a little better grip on the illegal puppies trade. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] Yes, the illegal trade of puppies is something terrible. But it must not be the case that in the zoo trades the sacrifice of the peasants is so much sold. Mr. Keck, you are a conscientious breeder yourself. I don't think you'd sell your puppies about a zoo deal. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Keck.]] We've looked at a lot of zoo acts, the animals are out there, they only have daylight all day. Of course, there are animals that are worse. What I want to achieve with this proposal is a certain appreciation. As has been said, farmers are unfortunately a very poor solution, and animals must not, above all, be goods. That must be a clear statement in this direction. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's why I'd ask you to go back here. [[Abg. Keck: Are you saying a zoo deal now?]] Above all, there are alternatives. We have the year 2016, every zoo deal can show dream-like video recordings of delightful cat babies, of delightful dog cubs and communicate with the breeders in this way and certainly also attract the best owners on land for the animals. [[Abg. Keck: Are you saying a zoo deal now?]] The basic statement is that animals must not be a commodity, and a certain appreciation of living beings to myself – even if we have other problems that are certainly bigger – I would still wish. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33629	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 981 report of the supplements. Who's calling for it? - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. [[23:28:24]] 20. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1443/A(E) by Mr Josef A. Riemer, Members and colleagues on the prohibition of gene salmon in Austria and the EU (982 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33674	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. First word message: Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33699	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, the original proposal, and thus the amended resolution, which deals with the ban on genetically modified salmon in Austria and the EU, has its right. We also see the unestimable relationship between genetically engineered foods and the possible negative effects on humans. That is why our Federal Minister has already been successful in the past at European level for the freedom of genetic engineering. Consider the GMO regulation, where we have reached the ban on cultivation or the derogation for the cultivation of genetically modified organisms, because the EU and the Commission are already officially here. The same is true of the Gen-Lachs, with our Mrs. Federal Minister at the European level sure to work to ensure that a salmon or changed food of that kind will not find the way to the sales shelves in Austria. In terms of content, we will certainly hear a lot more about it. But I also think that by means of a genetically engineered species, possible changes in their environment can come with negative effects, including for other species. I think, therefore, that we feel totally unwell in this issue in Austria, and I believe we have a clear attitude in Austria, but also within the European Union, namely for the freedom of genetic engineering. We will continue to represent this attitude. Until now, however, one has to say that there was no application for marketing authorisation of such a gene salmon. However, we have already decided on this motion for a resolution within the Committee, which essentially states that our Minister of State at the level of the European Union in the case of a request for the marketing authorisation of the gene salmon within the meaning of the precautionary principle itself. It is understandable to use for its non-approval. I thank you now for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33744	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33765	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Last November, the Food Authority in the USA released genetically modified salmon for consumption. This salmon does not even have to be marked specifically when sold. It is bred in Canada and therefore there is the possibility that an application for market authorisation will be submitted for this salmon in Europe as well. I'm a fishesser myself and I don't want a genetically modified salmon on the plate, and I think that's where we have an opinion. Therefore, I would like to ask the Federal Government and you, Mrs Minister, in particular, to make a stronger commitment to non-admission in the case of an application for market authorisation at EU level. For we have already seen, by taking a consistent negotiating position and negotiating tactics, our Minister Rupprechter succeeded in having a constitutional anchoring of the GMO self-determination in Austria. This makes it clear that there is no genetic engineering in Austria and that we want to remain free of genetic engineering in the future, because our agriculture is naturally close to it, and consumers very much appreciate it. Farmers also demand that there be a continuous labelling everywhere, including when eating food, canteens and gastronomy, because the consumer should be free to choose what he eats. We thank our consumers for their loyalty. As a farmer, I say thank you to our consumers because they always buy regionally and seasonally and prefer the food of the farmers from our region.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33803	Mr Riemer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33824	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The genetically modified salmon has several pages. There is above all the business of selling, on the second side are the deceived consumers, where one does not know which diseases will occur in the future, and as a third side in the background is always the whole TTIP. That's what's going on. If the people of the FDA, the Food and Drug Administration, create expertise, provide the numbers and that is enough without making certain studies, then, I have to say quite openly, it is already a threat if you say the American market, we from the company AquaBounty, we bring it to the market. Even if they do not breed these animals, they do so in Colombia and Panama. And of course, all the environmental speakers and concerned people say one thing: What happens if such an animal, drawn in these areas, comes out and enters the oceans? – Then we have the problem, and then I wonder how EU et cetera wants to control it. Because if the fish swims in the Atlantic, I have to say quite openly, then it does not know the EU controls, it still comes to the dishes. Secondly, these salmon are genetically modified on the one hand with a growth hormone, and on the other hand they also have a certain hormone, so that they can swim in colder waters. This means, in addition, that while a salmon needs about three years until it matures, in this case it may be reached in 16 to 18 months. It is in the foreground of profit, and this has nothing to do with the well-being of people and is not subject to the requirement we expect for ourselves. It's about food, not food. I believe that every consumer in Europe, especially in Austria, has the right to have a product, in this case I do not like to say a properly slaughtered animal – in order to quote Mrs Weigerstorfer, animals are not goods – on the plate. [[Abg. Fekter: Dogs and cats we don't eat anyway!]] It's about health, there's no studies, there's nothing, and you have to buy it. In this case, I say to everyone in the committee: Thank you for the broad support and for your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33861	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33882	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a brief comment on the debate culture in the House and on the Rules of Procedure. I mean, it would be useful, perhaps in the next presidential, to think seriously again, whether it makes sense to discuss very important issues at such a later hour when our attention is simply reduced. You have to say that honestly. I mean, it would definitely be a waste of time to get public attention. These are important questions, Mrs Federal Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I hope that we can convey a good climate and a politically alert climate to the public and to the citizens, and not a slowness, perhaps ignorance, or that we are simply overwhelmed by the late hour. [[Abg. Rädler: This is the same as in the Environment Committee!]] Mrs Bundesminister, the salmon is actually already being imported. We have salmon imports in processed form and in other forms. My question to you: Have you checked, Mrs. Federal Minister, whether the salmon coming to Austria, from the USA or from Canada, is contamination excluded? It is a very specific question because the US authorities have actually approved this salmon and no labelling is necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, this is simply scandalous, like the US, as well as partly Canada dealing with these dangerous foods and that they do not even have a label. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Doppler.]] The American citizens are fighting on our side, because they too want labelling rules. There is also a state, Vermont, who has already enforced it. This should apply at least in a state of the USA since 1.1.2016. All companies have tried to eliminate this decision of a region, a state in the USA. That's the reality! And that is why, Mrs Federal Minister, it is decided that what applies to agriculture also applies to food safety. TTIP we have to stop, together! And we should discuss this here in Parliament in an intensive way. The Gen-Lachs is just an example where, I thank Mr Riemer for the initiative, we have made a common request which empowers you and also supports you to vote against such an authorisation at European level. But we need a parliamentary survey here in the House so that all the issues concerning the food sector, which are covered by TTIP, but also by CETA, the Canadian-European Free Trade Agreement, are again discussed in detail and, apart from the issues of investor protection or the services sector, the food and agriculture sector is once again clarified and examined in depth before this Parliament comes to a decision, because both are mixed agreements. We just had a discussion here in the house with Phil Hogan, the EU Commissioner for Agriculture, and he told us directly: Very well, ladies and gentlemen, he has said to us that you have the opportunity, because it is a mixed agreement to be found over it. You'll still have this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what it was about. This proposal is a clear signal from the Austrian Parliament against genetic engineering products, which may in future be brought into the European market by means of these free trade agreements. On the other hand, it is important to act together. Mrs Federal Minister, explain how They want to ensure that such products are not currently on the Austrian market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33937	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e33986	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We have just discussed this, and Mr Pirklhuber has mentioned this, with Commissioner Hogan, that we can make much better national rules. National law must be given priority and must not in any way be subordinated to international law. Since TTIP was addressed, I have to say, it is very essential: If this gene salmon is applied for to grow six months faster than conventional salmon and thus produce less pollution, we know that the child is poured out with the bath. Whoever has an idea of meat production knows, even if it is fish, that slowly grown meat is healthier, more marbled, more tasteful. So exactly the opposite of the advertising message is the case. If I may add to Mr Pirklhuber's remarks: We are still not talking about the large amount of salmon set that exists. That's the insanity of what comes to the plates as a salmon set from chemical production on the rolls. Mrs. Minister! In this respect too, the market is researched and the market is clearly defined. It's very interesting to know what happened in Norway right now. The organization Foodwatch, after finding in blood samples German citizens the poison of a plant protection product that had been banned three years ago, revealed that this plant protection product was used and fed in Norwegian salmon farms for the preservation of the feed. Over the salmon this poison then came back into the human body. [[Abg. Fekter: How do you know that again?]] I think that will be a new business model, Mrs Fekter. The fish is always praised as so healthy. In the Klimaschutzgemeinde, Klimabondnisgemeinde Vöcklabruck a kilogram of bio-bach trout is offered only 39,90 €, but of course from aquaculture in Friuli. If, because I was just Christmas, I look at this Norwegian salmon, of course, organic salmon, then I ask everyone here, why you have to drive a salmon from Norway 1 600 kilometers to France – that is the second country identification on it – so that you can pick it there. [[the speaker shall keep a food packaging up to date]] And then he finally comes from France to Austria, and then we have our holiday menu. [[Abg. Fekter: What are you buying?]] So what is going on in this area of life, we need a few more climate summits, I believe, on which these errors are highlighted so that we can really deal with the citizens, with the citizens, with the consumers together. Of course, it's about a lot of money. This is always sold to the highest calilop travels, which is really deserved. This really costs consumers a lot of money, and of course it's true when you say: Life has become expensive. That's why I think: Those who feed themselves regionally also eat much cheaper.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34056	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34077	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Prohibition of gene salmon in Austria and the EU. The salmon is one of the most popular food fish. Now there is this salmon also in turboform, in the genetic engineering variant. We are happy to give up on this variant. Who can understand this, ladies and gentlemen, that a food authority like the American allows such a laboratory product? - Not me! Thus, this salmon is the first genetically modified animal to be used for human nutrition worldwide. The effects on health, on nature, these rulers are not at all interested. It's just the desire to profit. This approval is only a premise to the Free Trade Agreement, as Mr Steinbichler has also mentioned. We're happy to give up this meal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34106	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34128	Mr President. Minister! In the autumn of last year, I put two questions on the subject of gene salmon, one to the former Minister for Consumer Protection Rudi Hundstorfer, who has now voted in the presidential election campaign. As expected, his response to the request was very poor: He's not responsible, he doesn't know anything. You, Mrs Minister, have answered a little more, but I say very nebulos. I would like to read a few words about this: ‘In principle, prior to a marketing authorisation of this product in the EU, the application is the same as required by Regulation (EC) No. 1829/2003 necessary.” Let's come to the truth! The colleague of the Greens has already mentioned it: America has no labelling requirements for genetically modified foods. That is, the salmon, which comes from the USA via Canada to Austria and is now perhaps already on the shelves, is of course not checked. No man's checking it out! Nobody has to mark it, and the importer from the USA or Canada does not know for himself. So how can he tell European customers? That's the truth! That is to say, reality has long overtaken us, overshadowed us, and there we do not need TTIP at all. With TTIP, of course, it will be a step worse, we all know that or at least those who inform themselves. And in this context, I have another topic: From the press, we had to learn from parliamentarians that a reading room seems to have been set up in the Ministry of Economic Affairs by Mr Mitterlehner to be able to go to parliamentarians to read the TTIP documents there. There are very, very many questions about this. Is that in German, in English? Can I go every day? Why in the ministry, why not here in Parliament? All of this is questions about TTIP, which are of course not answered. I say it again: In principle, CETA is already in progress. TTIP is likely to be the same as the companies want. And please don't sell the Austrians and the Europeans for stupid! There is no guarantee! No one's checking it. The salmon is just the preliminary stage. Of course, other foods will come. And today I make a prophecy from the experience: This incompetent government, in cooperation with the European Union, will also fail TTIP to harm consumers in Austria and Europe. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34183	No one is reporting on this. We shall vote on the resolution on the ban on gene salmon in Austria and the EU, annexed to the Written Committee Report 982 of the Supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. (E 124.) [[23:48:09]] 21. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the report of the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry on the activities of the AMA marketing GesmbH (year of business 2014) pursuant to the resolution of the National Council of 8 March 2014. July 2014 (29/E XXV.GP) (III-225/986 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34228	We're coming to the 21st. Agenda item. First word message: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34253	It is three-quarters of twelve; nevertheless, it is positive that we have a “Report to the National Council on the activities of the AMA marketing GesmbH”. It is not mandatory, but the AMA marketing has also agreed to make a report because of our pressure and the Committee's requests. In principle, this is gratifying and to be welcomed. Of course, the report also raises many questions. It is the second report, and there are some points which we have already mentioned on this report in the previous year and which we want to amend. Let's start from the beginning: The point “Currency Board” reveals who is on the Supervisory Board of the AMA marketing. A lupen-clean political occupation. The funniest occupation – which we mentioned earlier – is the former Finance Minister Josef Pröll. He's there in the Supervisory Board. I'm not quite sure why he's in the Supervisory Board. He's head of a mill company. Mills process cereals, pay no marketing fees. Why he's sitting in the Supervisory Board is actually not quite clear to me. That's where Raiffeisen will have taken care of it. He was the former Minister of Finance at Raiffeisen. [[Abg. Obernoster: Nobody has been provided! There is nothing without the appropriate performance!]] Gabriel Obernosterer, that's your interpretation. I think he has been quite well cared for, because he gets a Gage of €330 000 a year from the Raiffeisen Group, and that is even more than he has received as Minister of Finance. So we don't understand! Why the post has been occupied with him is actually not understandable to us. Let us come to the staff – we have already criticized this in committee –: We have 63 employees, i.e. full-time equivalents, and total staff costs of € 4.3 million, if you only count on salaries, of €3.2 million. Divided by the 63 employees, the annual wage amounted to over € 51 000. Dr. Blass of the AMA marketing has also confirmed this. He says that's not the way it is. It's true that the AMA marketing pays individual gold salaries, because these are averages that we quote here. So here we pay disproportionately well, which we don't quite understand. That is why we want a change here. It might be a good idea to list the staff differently. Then we made one more point, namely advertising. The last pages list exactly and in detail what newspapers and media the advertising goes into. This is legally mandatory. However, we have a sum of €3.9 million, just under €4 million, which goes into advertising. Most of them, however, go to the agencies, and nothing is listed with the agencies. It flows 9.6 million € over agencies. That's where this money's going, maybe to these newspapers, maybe somewhere else. We suspect, and this is cited in the back, also in the “farmer’s newspaper, ” which belongs to the ÖVP. We also want transparency. It may not be that more than half of the advertising budget is given to individual agencies without definition. Dr. Blass said: That's data protection, you can't say anything. I do not fully understand why this should concern data protection if the agencies are to be clearly listed separately with the respective amounts. In principle, we would also like to have a list of the activities, trade fairs, which have cost the individual trade fairs and marketing activities that will be personally on site. There too, it seems important to me that we find a regulation. This also concerns the AMA and is also worth mentioning: There is still this 30 percent rule for processed meat. We also call for a change, because I do not think that the consumer can see whether it is really an Austrian product alone. Dr. Blass also confirmed that something should be changed. We do not think that this 30 percent rule of addition to AMA products is useful. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34310	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34381	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34402	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The AMA marketing GesmbH is an extremely successful organization, and you should appreciate that. Of course, criticism of every institution is permitted, but, Mr Jannach, you have been trying for years to disavow this institution and so to speak, to put it in a really bad light. It is obvious that Josef Pröll is in the Supervisory Board that it is easy to explain: because this is a man who has a competence in the agricultural sector – after all, he was a Minister of Agriculture – and can help to represent the interests of agricultural marketing and also to bring his own competence there. With all these things, you always try to produce the smell of dubious occurrences. That's a shame, because the AMA marketing GesmbH is, as I said, very successful. The task is clear: to promote the marketing of agricultural and forestry products, to maintain and develop markets, and to maintain them, including the to improve the quality of products and ultimately to inform consumers. There are a lot of projects that underline success. We discussed the EU exit at the beginning of today. In this context, the export of agricultural products can be led. When Austria joined the EU in 1995, food exports amounted to €1.7 billion. Today Austria exports €9.7 billion, €8 billion more to food. Of course, imports have also increased, but this is a success balance. It is a strategy that was chosen decades ago that the high Austrian quality is also placed on foreign markets. AMA marketing is also successful in Austria with the AMA seal. I keep meeting people who say: We want to buy Austrian quality. And they have that under guarantee when they buy a product with the AMA seal. It is guaranteed that an animal is born in Austria, slaughtered and processed here, if the corresponding product has the AMA seal, which is transparent, is also controlled in quality assurance. 43 000 farms participate in this programme, 1 900 processing plants, and there are at least over 1 300 restaurants subject to this seal of quality. This also makes sense because we have constantly developed it for milk, for eggs, for meat products, and for Austrian fish products. Austrian products are to be identified, and who wants to buy them in the supermarket or at the Greißler, at the AMA seal he has the guarantee that the Austrian product is, and thus one can also support consumer patriotism, namely people who buy Austrian food and thus want to support local agriculture. It is also important that there is a constant development, and there the AMA marketing has new ideas. It is true that the AMA seal is also awarded when ingredients are inside the product that do not occur in Austria. Example: A yogurt with banana taste. Since there are no bananas with us yet or vanilla, there may be some portions of ingredients inside. That is also indicated. What AMA marketing is planning now, and this is a good idea, is that such ingredients are also listed, so that the consumer, the consumer, clearly recognize that milk is from Austria, but the banana comes from another country. By the way, this already applies to the AMA bio-seal, and this should now be extended to the AMA seal. This is important in terms of transparency. We have always represented that consumers are the most important partners of the domestic agriculture and forestry because they buy the products. They should be able to recognize what they buy and what quality they get. It was also so at the European level at the time, in 2013, when you remember. In the case of horse meat scandal, a decision was taken by the Agriculture Ministers that processed meat products should also be identified. Unfortunately, the Commission then weakened this again because it said it would be too expensive. But there it must be: that the products are clearly marked. At the AMA seal, this is so, and the AMA marketing ensures that this will continue to be the case in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34462	Next word: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34484	Yeah, we have to use this board again, unfortunately. [[The speaker rejected a table to the speaker's desk.]] Mr. Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the televisions! This panel is now well suited to the speech of my predecessor, Minister a.D. Berlakovich, because he has tried to beautify the AMA marketing through exports. Conversely, I have to say: At the same time as exports rise abroad, milk prices fall, pig prices fall, prices for products fall on farms. Just as according to these statistics the production of palm oil increases, prices fall on the farms. Why? - Because we're being substituted. I am very grateful for the fact that Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner once spoke about imported unemployment. He may not have thought of our item on the agenda yet, but I think he has put something on the agenda. [[Abg. Obernoster: He didn't mean that!]] Of course he put this to the fore! Martina, if you're so sweet and you're bringing down the motions for resolutions. – I am absolutely clear, Mr Obernosterer, that this is true of imported unemployment and is also directly related to gastronomy and hotel industry. [[Abg. Grant hand over the requested documents to the speaker.]] – I thank you very much. In fact, it is a matter of the following: We have spoken about the miracle of wine, and we have made requests concerning the Uhudler. If then our supermarkets in Austria, which are particularly active in CO2 neutrality, sell the CO2 agreements in 2020, then offer the honour and CO2 neutrality of California wine, Mr. Minister, also important for the people of Burgenland, at a price of €2.90, then please tell me what has become of the wine wonder Austria and AMA marketing. [[The speaker holds a wine bottle in the height]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If these palm oil trebles – no matter if butterpackerl, whether or not biomargarine, in any form, are offered, then we know that it suppresses domestic production and produces refugees. [[the speaker shall keep a pack of the product mentioned above up to date]] We have had the discussion today: People over there have no chance. We create climate change with these substitutes. We redefine a larger area each year than Switzerland and Austria together, and we are talking about the climate summit, we are talking about successes where air traffic and shipping are excluded from home. That doesn't make any sense! We cannot talk about this, and we cannot say that we are simplifying exports to South Africa, to China. I am quite disappointed by the Green Week in Berlin, where the expert Sinabell said that this export success must be expanded. [[Abg. Obernoster: This is the wrong speech! You've said that before!]] It is likely that this is a pleasant business trip, and it is likely that the hotel industry there, in South Africa, Mr. Colleague, has great advantages, and that is why we also have in these markets, which are particularly affected by climate change, South-Afri-Canadian grapes, which are transported 14 000 kilometres here. [[The speaker holds a pack of grapes in the height]] So let's stop talking about it! Let's finally move on to reality, otherwise hops and malts will be lost! It doesn't make any sense. Now I am returning to imported unemployment. With this food policy, with these alleged success stories, we close 3 500 farms every year, we destroy 10,000 regional jobs every year and speak again, we have to create green jobs. That is the reality, and therefore, Minister Rupprechter, I would like to make two motions for resolutions in connection with this item on the agenda: firstly, the request concerning the introduction of a quality partnership for local gastronomy companies – unfortunately, Mr Schultes is not here today; he himself called for it at the Green Week in Berlin – the second one follows immediately thereafter. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Obernoster: I've had that for a long time!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request, I believe, is the very essential one which has been postponed since 2009 and which was tabled as a five-party application at the time, namely the application concerning the introduction of an Austrian quality seal law: Motion for a resolution by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, Members of Parliament, on the quality seal law The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Health, the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, the Environment and the Water Industry, is invited to submit to the National Council a draft law which is appropriate to enable the introduction of a legally binding, uniform quality seal for all foodstuffs offered in Austria." Mr Rupprechter, let us finally make nails with our heads before we speak a little, which is no longer beautiful! We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34612	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Steinbichler are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34737	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34758	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the experts of the AMA marketing GesmbH for preparing the report for 2014. Finally, it also goes back to the SPÖ initiative. In my remarks, I would like to refer specifically to the contents of the report. Of course, there is a lot to criticise, but it is not all bad for Weitem. It is appropriate in future for us to be able to discuss the report in time for the reporting period and not as it is now, 2016, to be on the 2014 activity report. It would also be necessary, in the sense of transparency, to obtain the comparison figures for 2013. Ladies and gentlemen. The total budget of the AMA marketing GesmbH 2014 is €23.3 million for 63 employees, totaling €4.3 million – a figure that is actually not very small. In 2014 farmers paid a total of € 17.9 million in marketing contributions. For reasons of fairness and justice, it would therefore be necessary, in my opinion, for all farmers, including cereal producers, to pay corresponding marketing contributions in the future. We need action in product identification. So it has already been mentioned today that there must also be an ingredient list. Furthermore, I again demand an evaluation of the AMA seal, for one thing is clear: The percentage of the AMA quality seal's reputation does not say anything about the quality of the products. I would also like to say this in detail here. In my opinion, too, an export offensive for agricultural products is necessary, as we still have air up. On the other hand, I would like to mention positively that there is a separate bio-division in the AMA, in which financial resources are used, and that the AMA also promotes and supports GMO-free feeding – also a demand for ours for years and days. Ladies and gentlemen. The aim is to ensure the economic and financial security of farmed family farms, including strengthening organic farming, strengthening regional products, as well as direct marketers. We heard it before: Last week, Commissioner for Agriculture, Phil Hogan, visited Parliament, highlighted Austria as a positive bio-European champion. We receive €485 million from the EU for organic farming by 2020. I think that's a positive sign. As far as TTIP is concerned, Hogan meant that no negotiations in the field of agriculture are currently taking place. – I personally am very critical of TTIP. There is a need for greater transparency, including the involvement of national parliaments. [[Call the SPÖ: Time! Time!]] Ladies and gentlemen. I wish farmers a good success for the 2016 work year, including with regard to the harvest. As consumers, I wish us high-quality, durable products from national production. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34795	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34816	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The AMA marketing as a 100 percent subsidiary of the AMA is not really well-balanced in terms of the occupation – and I would say this at the outset. The Board of Directors are purely social partners, and if we already want to talk about further development, we have to say the following: The report is indeed a good report – we are grateful to be able to discuss it here in the plenary session – but the colleague has rightly noted that this balance in today’s situation would mean that, if the former Minister of Agriculture Pröll is in this body, for example, representatives of consumer protection workers working in this field, such as NGOs dealing with quality assurance in trade chains, or the Association for Consumer Information or other stakeholders are also sitting on the Board of Directors of the AMA, in order to also feed information and improve the quality of the discussion within the AMA. [[Abg. Eßl: Or the Chamber of Workers!]] [[Abg. Eßl: What about the Chamber of Workers?]] The Chamber of Labour is in the Board of Directors, Mr Eßl, not a question, but the world has been turning on. Consumer protection is not only covered by the Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. Eßl: That's right!]] That's important to me. As an organisation, the AMA is a success story, it has farmers' contributions that it manages, and it tries to organize and carry out a positioning of Austrian agricultural products in Austria and beyond, with considerable results. You have to say that in the front. Criticism, which I would like to renew here, is in a point that is really central: If one works quality-oriented, as a large Austrian agency so to speak in the interests of agriculture, one would also have to be able to communicate the directives in a harmoniously clear manner, and a manco has not been dissolved for years, namely the manco that non-genotechnic raw materials, say feed, are not guaranteed in all AMA programmes. That is, we have some projects with genetic engineering feed and others without genetic engineering feed. This is inconsistent, leading to confusion among consumers. If I eat AMA pigmeat now, what did the animals get fed? Is it genetic engineering soya, or isn't it genetic engineering soya? – There we have two projects at the AMA, with and without genetic engineering soya. The genetic engineering soya comes from overseas. Such a pig eats 300 or 350 kg, of which are 100 or 120 kg or a little more soy with genetic engineering origin for example. This is not pleasing for a consumer when he gets along with this. This is where the label malaise begins, in which even if the AMA seal is written, the consumer is deceived if this pig does not receive at least European feed at the same time, at least gets non-genotechnic soya. I've been saying that for years, Minister of State. I know there are currently discussions in the pig sector, because prices are also so upset in the conventional sector that many pig farmers either stop or say: We need a brand programme that also achieves quality in the market, in the form of price. That would be the challenge, and I would ask you to set up an initiative. Now is an opportunity to move forward consistently. A criticism is also the type of advertising to organisations close to the parties, in particular the ÖVP Farmers' Federation. It may not be that a public-law marketing facility that operates on a legal basis for a party organisation provides advertising contributions. Not even the Chambers of Agriculture, which have public-law status, receive ads, no – Farmers' Federal Media. That is not correct, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case. That's to be stopped in the future, Minister of State. I say this clearly: That's to be stopped. Finally, I would like you to present an ambitious bio-action plan. In recent discussions in the Committee you have also said: In the first year of the new environmental programme, we already met the 20 percent of the area – which was an objective we are implementing in the new programme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The programme will continue to run until 2020. I expect that the programme will now be changed accordingly, more ambitious targets will be chosen. We are also willing to discuss this, and I will make proposals in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34886	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34909	Mr President. Estimated Minister! One thing before: This time, this AMA report has been much more transparent, much more detailed, and we would like to thank you very much for it, as we have also dealt with it in the Committee. Unfortunately, President Schultes is not there, because he said something quite interesting in Berlin, and I can quote from the "Tyrol daily": President Schultes said that the "price decline on the world markets for agricultural products makes the Chamber of Agriculture (LK) increasingly shine on the domestic market. An opportunity to sell more meat and dairy products in Austria is seen on menus in a designation of origin of the products. He is committed to a corresponding commitment to gastronomy.” President Schultes also believes that “competers of the craftsmanship ” are “selling imported cheap foods as domestic goods. ” Now I'm wondering, What is the AMA seal for when there are riders who sell cheap goods as domestic products? – And unfortunately this is a chamber of the backworld. We should think forward and not build walls, require someone else to write a sign of origin on his card, but develop a common strategy, as we create this together in a voluntary manner and not in a commitment. That's how you still think, and that hurts me when you build up two camps. One should be obliged to sell my products, and that's a wrong way. I think you should also think forward about developing a common strategy. We can speak with a loud voice, including in the committee, and we can also praise our joint initiatives accordingly, if the President of the Chamber then speaks of mandatory measures abroad. Those who are well-known call their products regional products anyway, if they are regional products, because then they are also better products, then they also achieve a higher price. Now I would like to come back to it again – and this is also remarkable – what President Schultes said in the Committee on Agriculture that he praised it so much that this fast-food company, this “chachtelwirt”, sold only domestic cattle. These are milk cows, and these are cheap products. If I, as the President of the Chamber of Agriculture, support the cheap and not the quality, I do not need to be surprised that quality and regionality do not go any further, but everything is determined only by the cheap price. These are unfortunate developments and should be abandoned. [[Abg. Eßl: Numbers but reasonable, Joseph!]] Precisely, you won't get a cheaper price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34947	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e34968	Mr President. High house! They are provided with the AMA marketing company's activity report, which – as it did in the Committee and also was said here in the debate – a success report is a report on the success story of AMA marketing. I am glad that the opposition, Mr Pirklhuber, recognises this too. We have really held a detailed debate, and I am very happy about the positive feedback on the activity and performance of the AMA marketing. Indeed, the AMA seal is the quality seal that you, Mr Steinbichler, so consistently demand. This has long been implemented and is also the best known, the most recognized and the best placed quality seal we know on the market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] In this sense, I am very grateful for the very constructive debate we have held here in the House, and I am pleased to hear this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35013	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35035	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the colleague from the Stronach team once again made extensive advertising for foreign products, I want to return to the domestic market, because I am convinced that farmers produce best food in Austria, and we have to see that we really bring it to the man. [[Abg. Steinbichler: You have to listen to me!]] We just have a small-structured agriculture with farmed family farms, and not everyone has the opportunity to make direct marketing. That is why we need an overarching organization that makes advertising together, possibly Austria-wide. [[Abg. Hagen: You have slept the speech of the Steinbichler!]] The market is diverse and also requires activities that go beyond the home market, and it is an advantage that we have this AMA marketing company. With this company we have an instrument that can make targeted advertising for the domestic products. Funding – which has already been addressed today – is largely financed by the producers themselves, by the farmers. € 17.9 million are agricultural marketing contributions, € 2.6 million are also funding from the European Union, € 2.7 million are other incomes. Mr Preiner, I can tell you because you mentioned it: Of course, cereals farmers should also pay. These funds, which are collected as contributions, will again be spent on product-specific products for this advertising segment. That is to say, there is currently no advertising for cereals. If something were collected, of course there would be a new advertising track to make. I should also like to make a second point: The AMA seal is the most essential instrument of these advertising measures and at the same time a recognizable and visible sign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] It is this sign that is most known in Austria. And it is very good that Mr Preiner – now I come to you again – should also deal with quality. Then: The AMA seal only receives products that have been tested according to precisely defined quality criteria and also come from Austria at 100 percent – except for the processing products, where an addition can take place, but also there must be the main component from Austria. At any rate, the AMA marketing is doing a good job, and in the sense of our domestic agriculture and in the end, I have the opportunity to appeal again to consumers: Choose when to buy local food! They not only help farmers, they do something good for the environment, they do something good for your health. They not only ensure your own workplace, but also secure your and our habitat with quality of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35090	The next item is the speech by Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35112	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Committee has already presented a number of questions to the AMA marketing representatives or has been answered for the financial year 2014 and I would like to join in and thank the representatives for the good discussion in the Committee and for this report. Among other things, the objectives of the AMA marketing GesmbH include the provision of relevant information for consumers regarding the quality and other product characteristics of these products. We are also pleased that there has been a campaign focus in the direction of organically produced food, because the awareness of consumers in this area is very much on the rise, and that is also important to me personally. This can also be read in the AMA marketing report to the National Council on the financial year 2014. Food labelling is also an essential contribution to strengthening confidence and, above all, to making it clear to consumers, and this also has an impact on sales. It has already been mentioned by Mr Eßl, among other things. From our point of view, however, there was still an evaluation of the status quo, for example in the area of the AMA seal, which is already about the question: What is this special quality of a product? A group of experts could be commissioned to establish and define this even more transparently – an evaluation of the quality of the AMA mark currently described, in particular whether the quality label laid down in the AMA Act is of high quality, i.e. above the standard product quality standards, or what content this particular quality has. I believe that this would achieve overall a win-win situation, for producers and consumers alike, in transparency. Since it is already after midnight, I may add a wish on my own and wish our colleague and colleague Ruth Becher all the best for my birthday. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35154	The next item is the report by Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35175	Mr President. Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I too, of course, would like to join in thanking the AMA marketing for the report presented. It is really an excellent report because it also shows that the impact of the AMA marketing can achieve corresponding added values for farmers. It is an important orientation for food purchases. For consumers, the red and white-red quality marks of the AMA marketing are an important orientation in purchasing and therefore important for our sales. The AMA seal has strict quality criteria, the quality and origin programs of the AMA marketing increase the quality level of domestic production. Transparency and perceptibility are also provided by the seal of quality, as well as greater security and continuous improvement through strict and regular controls. And so, ladies and gentlemen, I really believe that we have an excellent agency in front of us, a public agency, which – and I would like to stress that already – is more than 80 percent of the funds from contributions from farmers, and that is already a remarkable achievement. In fact, I felt it was a pity in the committee discussion that it was always tried to suppress the performance, and especially the Freedom Party – the colleague Jannach, whom I very much appreciate – tried to put the AMA marketing into bad light on the basis of the employees' salaries. The simple bill has been drawn up that the € 4.3 million that will be made available to employees is one of the salaries – which, of course, is not. One would also have known this, Mr Jannach, if one had read the report quite simply, because in this number the expenses for handling and providing services to occupational pension funds, expenditure on old-age care, expenses for statutory social contributions, as well as charges for dependent taxes and contributions and other social expenses are included. It was the claim that these 63 employees should earn a monthly gross wage of €4900, which is of course a very impressive salary. The fact is, if you calculate it correctly and see the real figures from the report, that the 63 employees receive an average gross monthly salary of €3 600, and there is a significant difference. This must also be reflected accordingly in the presentation: €3 600 gross for these employees, of whom more than 50 percent have an academic title and in which a long-term employeeship is also made available. [[Call the FPÖ: Everything wrong!]] That is why I believe that the AMA marketing should be dealt with fairly and that the figures should also be put into the right light, and I would ask you not to defamate this institution, which is important for Austrian agriculture in the future, which is very important for sales. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35207	Mr Steinbichler has spoken a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35228	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you try to talk a little bit nicely, it won't get any better. And because President Eßl and now the colleague Sieber have tried to present well that there is an added value, I would like to know where it is. If you know that 13 percent of the meat is sold as a whole, we know how high the share of the AMA seal is. And even the quality manager Martin Greßl admitted in the committee that there is a need for action in the processing products. So, what else do we want, why don't we go to reality? And if we have had the confirmation in the Subcommittee when it comes to domestic supply, that Mr. Rogl has spoken about the beef market of 150 percent production and the expert has said about hogast, we have 36 percent domestic share in the market – that is, friends, if the truth lies in between, that is already a disaster, then we are already under-supply. And that's exactly what it's all about: We haven't had the self-sufficiency since then. Because if we have increased exports to five times, let me explain to you in this room how we are so successful domestically that we are able to make up for the export. Then I'll just say one thing: With my honor, where does the raw material come from? - And that's the essential. And one last question, Minister: How can you explain to me for the AMA marketing that Austrian dairy farmers who deliver milk to Bavaria must pay AMA marketing contribution? Where's the justice? Where's the performance? Where is fair treatment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35268	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-225 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on details concerning the design of an annual reporting obligation for the agricultural market Austria Marketing GmbH to the National Council: Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on the introduction of a quality partnership for local gastronomy companies. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who's for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[00:29:53]] 22. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (905 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Plant Protection Act 2011 (987 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35359	We're coming to the 22nd. Agenda item. Mr Steinbichler is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35385	Mr President. Mr. Minister! In principle, we have no major concerns about this proposal. It is about the fact that non-resident species are not to be dragged into the domestic ecosystem. I think it makes sense to know, for example, what problems we have had at railway stations or at wooden transport stations where beetles were imported and other foreign vermins. It is also natural at airports and other species of animals and plants. That is why we are not prepared to vote because the Committee has not said who covers the additional costs – we are talking about costs of € 55 000 to € 60 000 – and because it has not been possible to present the list of non-resident species. I think that's exactly the point of criticism. As long as you don't know what you're voting on, you can't agree. That is what we are asking for, and then we will probably be giving our approval later. But not at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35413	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35434	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Bun-desminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to take a brief look at the previous point. With regard to the AMA marketing report, I would like to report that in Upper Austria we have launched a positive campaign of the Farmers' Federation and the consumers have told us or told us that they know the AMA sign very well and look at it very well or really trust this AMA mark. I would like to make a brief comment on the current point: I think it's very important to change the Plant Protection Act, because these invasive alien species are becoming more and more with us. I think that's where we need the highest level of action. Everyone who lives in the countryside knows these animals and plants that are growing more and more with us. To name just a few: the corn root drill, which caused major damage in agriculture in the Styria last year, but also there are damage in the bee economy, where the Varroamilbe has been imported, the Asian lady beetle is massively on the advance, or also the Indian spring herb, which massively spreads in the forests and pushes our own species into the background. I believe that this European import ban, which has been imposed, is really essential, and I believe that we can really join it. This must be implemented by the Federal Office for Food Safety and the federal states. I believe that we will also need great action in this area in the future. That is why, I believe, this plant protection law now provides for these controls on imports of live plants and animals with hazardous potential. It is therefore important that there are border areas where such plant and veterinary control facilities are, and if necessary, one must return these plants and animals when importing. And if it really matters, you have to put them either in quarantine facilities, when it comes to hoofing animals or poultry, or, in the worst case, destroy them. With this change of law, we increase the protection of our biodiversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35476	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35498	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today we are dealing with the novelle of the Plant Protection Act 2011. Since nature is especially dear to my heart, I see it as our duty to work constantly and continuously on improvements in the field of nature conservation and also of plant protection. The new regulation, as has already been said, concerns the import of living organisms into the European Union, such as animals and plants, which pose a threat to our domestic nature. In other countries, such as Australia or New Zealand, this has long been the standard, there are already these reinforced import regulations to protect the native fauna and flora. Dangerous examples are enough, as has already been said, for example, the Asian lady beetle, who massively threatens the domestic red seven-point marine beetle in us and also presents a massive problem in the wine-growing process, because when he arrives in the wine through the harvest, a very bitter substance arises, which significantly reduces the quality of the wine. This includes not only animals, but also plants, as Mr Hofinger mentioned earlier. The Indian herb that sprays in our forests we know, I think, all that sometimes pushes out the native plants. These invasive species can possibly change the ecosystem and also threaten to destroy our fauna and flora and, above all, reduce biodiversity. That is why this law is part of the biodiversity strategy, which serves to protect and maintain our ecosystem and its diversity. However, this also includes the investigation and prevention of risks through their own actions. This point is particularly important to me. I believe that many things would turn to the positive if people understood that their behavior contributes significantly to the protection of nature, for example, which foods land in our basket. Consuming is a decision for or against nature. In summary, the revision of this Plant Protection Act 2011 is a long-term one. I am pleased that this federal government is taking a step in the right direction. I will, of course, vote in favour of this law as an environmentally-conscious citizen and would be delighted with a broad majority today in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35538	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35559	Mr President. Federal Minister! The amendment of the Plant Protection Act 2011 – we will agree because it is mostly very reasonable when it comes to ensuring official controls of imports of invasive species into the EU or also to Austria. I think – perhaps in addition to the previous speakers – that it is true that invasive plants and animals or other organisms, of course, cause a lot of problems. Not only with regard to agriculture – we also need to see that, of course, they have an impact on hunting and fishing – but, of course, we also look at the health of people. I don't think that's essential. In the future, of course, mobility in travel and in the transport of goods will also become a problem, which can be taken into account in invasive ways, whether these are neophytes, neozoes or neobiota. It is also not insignificant that these invasive species – I think now only as an example of the plants – live where they come from, mostly in harmony with the environment, but are exploding in us by a climatic change. The colleague said this right: You only need to look at the South Styria with us, which is really a plague in part. And now my doubts are also raised, which I would like to conclude. I have taken the explanations that there are 12 000 non-resident species in the EU and 10 to 15 percent of them are considered invasive, i.e. 1 200 to 1 800. Now we have just mentioned a few examples, many of us do not yet know. And we don't know anything about many of those who come upon us. The checks, Mr Steinbichler said correctly, would perhaps be a small tear in the buttonhole, we leave it away, tens of thousands of companies are affected. But I'm more concerned about something else: What do we do with these so-called dominance stocks of existing plants or animals? I think that the sincere ambrosion, the dam-kneader, the giant bear-klu, which has also gone through the media, causes the glandy jump-wreath, also causes injuries to humans, or to buildings or elsewhere, in the street area, damage. I could add the American vineyard to the Asian lady cage, which is tragic in the wine-growing area with us. To this day, there is nothing against the Asian lady beetle. However, I believe that the Spanish snail should also be a term for everyone who is now starting in the spring, and they will notice that. Or, of course, the tiger mücke, which has also migrated through the press. Well, there's a lot already. What I wonder: What do we do with the existence? Who will bear the costs there? Especially with the plants, you know that you can not do this without further mowing or, in the other case, you can eliminate shooting. I would ask that there be appropriate assistance. I don't know. That is the hardest work that can be done manually to eliminate these root balls. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35605	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35626	Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been sufficiently explained what it is all about. In principle, the law is the implementation of an international agreement, the international agreement on biodiversity. This Cartagena Protocol is very important because it is necessary to protect ecosystems. Mr Federal Minister, on this occasion I would also like to address the challenge of doing something for our seed, for our plant variety protection and for the diversity of the cultural landscape. I believe that this is a very big challenge for the next few years, that we need further initiatives and activities in the protection of varieties, activities, old varieties and adaptation, especially from the point of view of climate change, from the point of view of diversity in the cultural landscape. In particular, I am also concerned about the so-called farmers' privilege, namely: Farmers, but of course also consumers who have a home garden, can continue to use their seeds, and that there is no rules here as to how they want some large players on the seed market, namely that licenses can be paid for everything. I therefore urge you to observe this area very closely in the context of future developments and to ensure that this biodiversity remains in our seeds. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35665	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35687	Mr President. High house! As has already been said, the regulation of the European Union on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of non-resident species is being implemented here. We create the structures in the Plant Protection Act. I am very glad that the debate in the Committee has shown that, with the exception of a group, all political groups support this government proposal. That's what I'm looking forward to. It is an important contribution to the conservation of biodiversity in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35729	The next item is the speech by Mr Schabhüttl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35750	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The speakers have already said that an EU regulation is being implemented here. The law deals with the prohibition of imports of certain animals, plants and categories of goods from remote countries threatened by their nature or by diseases of native animals and plants. In order to comply with this ban, two measures have been defined: on the one hand, official control of imports into Austria or the EU, with non-compliant consignments being seized. On the other hand, the principle of national legislation is laid down in order to adopt appropriate measures. In order to preserve this biodiversity, however, only legal provisions are not sufficient, the involvement of the economy, agriculture and society as a whole needs. It is a great responsibility that we also have to bear for the next generation. People are supposed to have it worth living in the future. We therefore fully support the line in this federal law, which amends the Plant Protection Act 2011. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35787	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 905 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? - That's the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also speaking in third reading for a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[00:44:51]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment 1091/A(E) by Dr Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues on a national human rights institution for Austria (994 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35842	We're coming to the 23rd. Agenda item. Mr Scherak is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35866	At a later hour, we reached human rights again, while the government parties have already taken a step towards more surveillance and less freedom in this country by means of the State Protection Act. This is also a reason why, because these tendencies are simply very clear in recent years, we demand a national human rights institute for Austria. What can and does this institute do? – It should carry out many tasks. We have described this in great detail in our request. The aim is to ensure, among other things, that annual reports on the human rights situation in Austria are written, that the National Council and the Government are consulted during the legislative procedure. These are things that are very often necessary. This would certainly have been very useful in connection with the State Protection Act. The main task is to carry out a very special task, namely the national prevention mechanism in connection with the OPCAT mandate. This task is currently with the public prosecutor's office, which she took over a few years ago in addition to her original duties, namely the review of misunderstandings in the administration. In principle, I also think it is better that the national prevention mechanism is with the public prosecutor's office and no longer where it was located, namely at the Human Rights Advisory Council in the Ministry of the Interior. That is once something positive and a step in the right direction. Why do we still propose a national human rights institution here? – The first reason is because we believe that there are far more tasks in the field. Especially the perception of the advisory function and the permanent monitoring function regarding the human rights situation in Austria would be very, very useful. The second and much more relevant reason is that due to their order mechanism – and against which I personally do not have much – the Paris principles, the proposals and clear guidelines, Mrs Schimanek, as an independent appointment of such human rights institutions, should go on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] [[New call for tender Schimanek]] As a result, as an Austrian Republic, we have a human rights institution, namely the People's Procuratorate, which is not in the UN Human Rights Council. ==References== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] [[Cheerfulness at the Abg. Korun.]] It is only consultative. I am quite sorry that we, as a country which is very exemplary in human rights itself – there are many, much worse situations in this world – are only consultative. That's actually a shame, doesn't make sense, but it's just the order mechanism. Now we can either change the public prosecutor's order mechanism – Mrs. Korun has argued in this direction, in the sense that she does not think this human rights institution makes sense. I think that's a solution. The other is: We do not discuss the order mechanism and we do a separate human rights institution in which people are ordered according to these criteria. [[New call of the abg. Schimanek.]] This is totally simple, Mrs Schimanek, I am happy to explain to you in all detail how such a thing works. Look Just take this in peace once, which is the problem with the order mechanism and why we are only in the UN Human Rights Council with a consultative voice. I think this is an intolerable state. Mrs Pfurtscheller said that there are countries where the human rights situation is less good inside the Human Rights Council. That's right. But they are inside because the order mechanism for their human rights institution is in line with the principles of Paris. They're set up internationally. It would actually be very easy to change that accordingly. That's what we're proposing. As an Austrian – and I believe that this should actually be an objective of Austria – we would not only be able to sit in the UN Human Rights Council with a consultative voice, but also actively participate there.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35954	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e35976	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On this request: It is about human rights, it is about a high claim, it is about credibility, it is about attitude. Beyond the party borders, this Republic of Austria, the second Republic since 1945, is part of it. For us, the SPÖ, the preservation of human rights, the preservation of human dignity, is the driving force behind our actions. It has been mentioned correctly: With 1. In July 2012, the Human Rights Council came from the Ministry of Interior to the People's Procuratorate. Since then, six regional commissions have been operating in the Federal Republic of Germany. Completely independent, freely decisive, without calling, at a high level they check unregistered and very professional. All reports on identified human rights abuses are presented and documented in detail and, for example, have caused the abolition of net beds today, the abolition of imprisonment in bed, as unfortunately was the case in psychiatric institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to promote and protect human rights in our country, the People's Procuratorate has done very, very much, is highly appreciated and is considered to be exemplary internationally. Mr Scherak, you are a very active member of the Human Rights Committee, I thank you, acknowledge and appreciate your commitment, but we see a dual government structure as a disadvantage. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: The Austrians are rightly proud of the high reputation, the good reputation of the Austrian People's Procuratorate in relation to human rights. It is more than motivated for a positive development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36015	Next speaker: Mrs Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36036	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate viewers still holding on screen or in front of computers! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – There will hardly be anyone else, I guess. Mr Scherak has already explained: NEOS wants a national human rights institution which is independent and is equipped with an appropriate legal and constitutional basis in accordance with the Paris principles. As a member of the Committee on Human Rights, I have read very carefully what Mr Scherak wanted. The request was at least six pages long, so it was also very detailed. I read this and then I thought: Actually, we already have this institute, we already have the People's Procuratorate! I looked at it again and found that Dr. Scherak was very strongly based on a 2006 study by the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute, and once again began to count. I guess you're about my son's age and will probably have studied in 2006. Da_te You have also studied Jus and human rights, I can imagine that this study has been accommodated by you at the time, which they have now used in this request – without bearing in mind that a little later, in 2011, the OPCAT laws were adopted, on the basis of which the People's Procuratorate was founded. So, in fact, a lot of what you have requested in your request has been done. We, or you, have responded in committee and now again that you do not like the order of the Volksanwälte that you wish for another order. Your application states that you would like to see people from the administration and government representatives speak along with the order mode. I think that's a little absurd, because then exactly those who are being controlled would be able to say who's going to be a popular lawyer again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I believe that it is still the way it is now – the free decision of parliamentarians – but the better way. That is also the reason why we reject your request. I don't want to go into the other things exactly, because I have a few more speakers, and they're going to say that to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36086	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36107	Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The fact that the People's Prosecution Office or the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture does not fully meet the intended criteria of independence is a problem. That's how we see it. We have also criticized this since the implementation of the OPCAT Agreement. When the Human Rights Advisory Council was released from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and implemented or established in the Public Prosecutor's Office, we have been very strongly committed in the negotiations to changing the order mode of the Volksanwälte and Volksanwälten so that the A-status we all wanted and wanted can be achieved. It was not surprising, then, that the People's Procuratorate received only the category B classification during the 2011 final exam. That was something we all expected. However, as I have also tried to explain in the Human Rights Committee, we believe that it would be useful – or still necessary to make it clearer – to improve the public prosecutor's order mode in order to guarantee a better professional suitability for the lawyers: with public hearings, with an application mechanism that allows experts in the field of human rights to apply freely, so that it is not only former politicians who become the lawyers and popular lawyers. We are therefore in favour of the National Prevention Mechanism being equipped as independently as possible at the Public Prosecutor's Office. We do not consider the complete reconstruction of the existing National Prevention Mechanism and human rights expertise at the Public Procuratorate to be the right way. In our opinion, it would be better to develop the National Prevention Mechanism at the Public Prosecution Office, to make it more independent and to modernise the Public Procuratorate in terms of their order mode. That is why we have recently submitted our request for the modification and modernisation of the public prosecutor's order mode, because we believe that it is still very, very up-to-date. That is why we will not approach the NEOS proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36146	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36168	Mr President. Minister! High house! With regard to the NEOS request, which was rejected in the Committee by the votes of SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and FPÖ, I would like to say that: To create a national human rights institution for Austria, I do not think it useful for a number of reasons. Why? - With 1. On July 15, 2012, the National Human Rights Institute became the National Public Prosecutor's Office. This also significantly expanded the role of the Public Procuratorate. The People's Procuratorate is independent, stands by all people, is at any time informal and can be used free of charge by all citizens. As a task of the Public Prosecutor's Office, protection and promotion of human rights are explicitly enshrined in the B-VG, and institutions such as judicial institutions or nursing homes are controlled with six regional commissions. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] The People's Procuratorate repeatedly informs about human rights standards, cooperates with the economy and is also constantly in dialogue with civil society. The People's Procuratorate also repeatedly points out its observations and perceptions in a separate part of human rights in its annual reports to Parliament. The three members will be appointed by the National Council in a transparent Procedure chosen for six years. They are independent and effective representatives of human rights in the exercise of their activities. I see the People's Prosecution as it sees itself and describes it as a human rights house of the Republic! A new government structure would therefore not make sense, would be without additional human rights effect and would also cause unnecessary, high costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36210	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36231	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been said by Mr Scherak on this subject, on the request, which has admittedly been very ambitious. Perhaps you should mention what my previous speakers also said: In 2012, with the unanimous participation of all the parties represented in the National Council, we gave the People's Procuratorate the competence to establish the People's Procuratorate as a House of Human Rights in Austria. Of course, there is nothing against further development of the People's Procuratorate. They can be improved over and over again, but in the end I am convinced that very good work will be done there. That order mode is also quite objective insofar as a large, representative cross-section of the population is given by the represented parties, and that, in any case, the Commissions formed by many representatives of civil society are completely independent, I can only maintain. Those who have really been closely involved in the activities of the People's Procuratorate in recent years see no reason at all to doubt the objectivity of the activities of the Volksanwälte or Volksanwälte. They're doing great. One can be convinced by watching the program “Citizen Lawyers. ” Although this is a good, ambitious request, in the end I think there is great consensus here that it is not necessary in this form. That is why it is also rejected by our side.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36265	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36286	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As we have generally heard, the effectiveness and work of the People's Procuratorate in respect of respect for human rights are highly positive. In particular, through the introduction of the OPCAT Enforcement Act 2012, which significantly extended the constitutional mandate of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the Protection of Human Rights, the Public Prosecutor's Office became an independent institution committed to human rights. Now, however, the question arises, which causes NEOS to demand an elaborate parallel structure in addition to a provenly efficient and well-functioning institution in Austria. Human rights are clearly not in danger, but it is proposed that an own institution, according to the application of 12 employees, be recruited with twelve members, appointed for six years, mainly from: VEHICLE COOPERATION. And – this is an extra mention – the secondary work should already be accompanied by a professional fee. With all understanding: I would particularly like you to consider your motivation for the application and for the application. -Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36325	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Human Rights to take note of his 994 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[01:04:19]] 24. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Johannes Jarolim, Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Christoph Hagen, colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG), the Federal Act on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975), the Constitutional Court Act 1953, the Criminal Procedures Act 1975 (StPO), the Federal Law on the Election of the National Council (National Council Election Order 1992 (NRWO) and the Federal Law on the Election of Members of the European Parliament (European Election Order (EUWO) (1470/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36378	We arrive at the 24th. The item on the agenda and the debate. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Alm. Mr. Deputy? [[Abg. Alm: This has been reported wrong!]] [[Abg. Pendl: This is the next point!]] One moment please; I'm looking for a little patience. Unfortunately, we had a different list of speakers on the screen. The next item is Mrs Steinacker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36422	Madam President. High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! To later Stund’ take me Cicero in the mouth – that’s not my quote yet, my quote is –: “Fundament of justice is fundamental trust.” If a person abuses trust, he does wrong to those to whom he is obliged. For this reason, there are already rules on the loss of mandate. We now want to tighten it up, and thus the standard for politicians, but also for other officials, such as the Volksanwälte or the President of the Court of Auditors. The aim is to increase the awareness of political responsibility and prevent the damage of the office and politics in general. We will also conclude legal gaps with this request. In concrete terms, a Member should lose his mandate in the future if he has been sentenced to more than six months of imprisonment or a conditional imprisonment of more than one year for a committed crime. This will also apply in future – as we close the gap – to members of the government, the Federal Presidents, national leaders, the President of the Court of Auditors, the Volksanwälte and Landtagsdelegates. I would like to thank the judges of all parties for the very constructive discussions over two months. I would like to stress that we will carry this initiative by a broad majority, and now, as a result, I may announce, hold a judicial committee in the local VIII, where we will send this initiative proposal into a six-week review. Together, we are on the right path in the implementation of the increase in the loss of mandate and office. We create more trust and justice in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36459	Before I give the floor to Mr Jarolim, I apologise to Mr Alm. Unfortunately, we had the wrong list of speakers; that was a mistake on our part. Mr Jarolim, you are now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36483	Finally, this misunderstanding has refreshed the session and so you can see about it. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I do not think I can say much more about this than Mr Steinacker has already said. We then have the committee meeting in local VIII and will decide to send the draft law to the review. I think we have taken a nice step forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36518	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36549	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If it's already that late, you don't have to do anything, you can say something about it. This is a question of reorganising the loss of mandate. We do not see the need, and I do not think that the need to adapt the rules to those of officials is necessarily justified, because there is a difference between a elected Member and an official. This is also a constitutional problem because he has a free mandate and has just been elected by the voters. An official has a function that is given to him by the state. In principle, we are now taking part in this regulation. But we will see what really comes out of the Committee's review. I am already excited how our constitutional questions are seen by the various institutions. We are therefore very open here and thank you once again for the discussion and also for having come here once in a while until this compromise. But the whole thing hasn't gone yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36582	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36613	Mrs Steinacker has already said that this may be decided by a broad majority. A broad majority implies that it is not unanimous. We are, so to speak, the destroyers of unanimity. Mr Steinacker has made a great effort, and I believe that even the bizarre case would have occurred that ÖVP and Greens could have agreed, but that no other partner/other partner for a two-thirds majority would have found. In this respect, the ÖVP has had to look for other partners. But perhaps the opportunity has not yet been given, and we can enter another round of negotiations after a review, because the regulation is – and this is less addressed to you now, because I think there is quite a confession, it is rather the others – not comprehensible. It is difficult to explain to the citizens that a Member who is sentenced to a compulsory prison sentence comes to Parliament with freedom of movement or legholds. As soon as the first case occurs, it will be said that it is completely incomprehensible that the resocialisation of a politician is taking place in Parliament. There must be the logical consequence of this politician losing his mandate. Then we will have the next reform discussion and, of course, we will have a loss of confidence, too. As a rule, there are only two options: Either there is a retiring culture and the politician withdraws before or there is no retiring culture, then the club will eventually become, I suppose, the result will be to exclude such politicians. Why it is not possible to draw up clear rules, which then also provide for consequences when there is an urgent condemnation, is not understandable, especially since in Austria the way to an absolute condemnation is a further one. In other words, there must have been a lot of criminal proceedings, and then the question really arises whether we want such Members to sit in the House. I think that perhaps there might be a little more knowledge on the part of the others, including in the conditional prison sentence. Of course, the fact that politicians who are condemned for corruption or for abuse of office – perhaps only conditionally – remain in Parliament does not benefit from confidence in democracy and Parliament in any way. But – it has already been said – we are only going to the next round, there is a review first, there is a committee, and perhaps then there is the opportunity to renegotiate and find a meaningful solution that will then also be held when the crisis occurs and then not blaming us again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36654	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36675	Madam President. Yes, the “wide majority” has already fallen as a keyword, and I am no longer so sure that the majority will be so broad. Mr Steinhauser has already said why the Greens do not agree. I believe that this is a step in the right direction, but it is also missing essential things. The occasion – which Klubobmann Lopatka has somehow put into play – was the colleague Winter, with actually a This was a bad occasion because it is most likely not to be condemned at all. Nevertheless, I think we should discuss whether to adapt the relevant provisions. Mr Stefan is not sure if it makes sense to adapt it to the rules of the officials. I believe, however, that it makes sense to say clearly here that, from a certain criminal framework – whether it be the six months of absolute imprisonment – it will result in a loss of office. I also believe that we can discuss this, as the Greens have suggested, that every necessary sentence for freedom leads to a loss of office. These are two things you can discuss. But what is safe for me – and unfortunately this is missing in the present proposal – is the fact that in certain offences, as we have suggested, there should in any case be an absolutely impunity for the loss of office. We have proposed Section 18 and Section 22 of the Criminal Code because these are simple things that are almost directly related to political activity. This is about felony crimes and corruption crimes, and it is very clear that there should be a loss of office, even in the event of an absolute imprisonment. I'm very sorry that's not inside now. I think we should continue to discuss this. Let us see what results from the Committee's assessment. What annoyed me a little bit is that Klubobmann Lopatka said to the “standard”, I think, that there will be no further negotiations anyway, because that is now the point. If that is really the case, then we can save ourselves the Committee's opinion. I hope, however, that if there are any meaningful proposals, what I am going to expect, you can still discuss this again, in order to bring to the end the broadest majority we can find there.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36714	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept the motion for a resolution 1470/A to the Committee on Justice. [[01:14:44]] 25. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues in a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) and a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 1975) (1475/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36754	Now we come to the 25th. The item on the agenda and the debate. Mr Mag. Alm's coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36782	Madam President. High house! A nice evening! This application is linked to the state protection law adopted today – an important law, which also brings numerous improvements and has been negotiated until recently. I believe that Mr Pilz has originally entered the list of speakers, but I am sure he is now even further negotiating, as did Mr Darmann, whom I originally saw on the list of speakers. I am quite sorry that they are not here now, because it is a matter of serious concern. It is about how we can further improve this law, which has been adopted, or how we can make the initial repairs, build the missing parts on which we have been talking for a long time, namely exactly the parts of parliamentary control. Our two main criticisms remain. The question of the legal protection officer has now been dealt with quite elegantly, I would like to say that the basic working method has been outsourced into a subsequent Rules of Procedure. In this context, Parliament is also giving way to a lot of the possibility of design, in particular with regard to Senate decisions, which are also included in the law. The second major criticism or one of the two major was precisely parliamentary control. There is also fundamental consensus here to seek a new regulation, because work in the subcommittee is actually taking place under difficult conditions. I mean not only the shortage of time and the scarcity of oxygen in these subcommittees, but it is also not really possible to carry out the control function properly in the subcommittees. As Members of Parliament, we are not necessarily so informed that we can also ask the right questions. There is no continuous reporting. Take, for example, the reports of the legal guardians: they come not necessarily quarterly, not annually, but at a distance of more than two years – since, I believe, the last one has come. In the context of the creation of the State Protection Act, it was also denied that this process, parliamentary control, should be revised, launched. And with this proposal we want to give an incentive to think about what such a parliamentary control might look like. And we need to change the existing Rules of Procedure in order to ensure proper control. The current construction of the two subcommittees does not give effective control. With the new powers of the BAT, with the military intelligence service, with the Defense Office, we have three authorities with intelligence or similar activities, important activities to master the diversity of criminal and terrorist threats. And here it is necessary to adapt the legal bases so that these activities can also be controlled by Parliament. The demand for such a committee is not, of course, the only way to ensure parliamentary control. There is not a right solution here, there are several. One that is not unprecedented: In Germany this is similarly regulated with a parliamentary control body of the German Bundestag, which can serve as a comparison. The Federal Government would therefore be obliged to provide comprehensive information on the general activities of the intelligence services, which is not the case at present or not in the necessary frequency. This one committee would then be responsible for all intelligence services, and it makes sense to bring these committees together in the light of the fact that, anyway, the same people or very many people are represented in both committees. We want Parliament to know about – yes – the general activities of this authority, not just to carry out individual audits. [[Abg. Wöginger: We too!]] Yeah? I can explain it even more precisely. Mr President, you look so longingly at this analog clock. [[Abg. Wöginger: Now it is also meaty!]] But you're right, I should take a little more time to do this. Well, at least this legal protection is not shown in the State Protection Act at all, so not only insufficient, but not at all. But this is, of course, essential to this law that it does not regulate parliamentary control in this form. By strengthening this parliamentary control, the intelligence activities of these authorities can be said to be legitimate and secure. The greater the powers of state protection are... [[Abg. Lopatka: The speaking time of NEOS has expired, Madam President!]] - No, I think a few minutes... [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] - Really? The President would ring, don't worry.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36846	That's right.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36861	Now I have to repeat the last saying, because now we've all gone out of the concept. [[General hustle and bustle.]] The greater the powers conferred by this State Protection Act, the stronger and more precise the control must be. [[Call the ÖVP: Good night!]] Of course, control must be able to function smoothly, at least on request and at the request of Members. [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time! Time!]] Parliament must be able to exercise its control right now, where the law is decided. Protection of the fundamental rights and rights of citizens must be at the heart of this process. I know we're thinking in the same direction. I am looking at Mr Pendl in particular. And with this proposal for an initiative, we want to take the first step in this direction, that we come to a proper parliamentary control body. [[Call the ÖVP:I want to sleep!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Good night! The speaking time has long expired!]] – I would ask you to...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36927	Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, we have an indication here as to the time of the Group speaking time and if it had expired, of course I would have drawn the honourable Member's attention to it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Mag. Alm, you still have one minute's speaking time, then your group's speaking time is exhausted and I will draw your attention to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e36982	Thank you for pointing out the broken Internet, Mr. Klubobmann! Good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e37021	Next, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e37055	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Alm, I still have a lot of speaking time. However, I do not want to deal with the content of the matter now, but I would just like to point out that the good order was clear from the first second that it was an actual task of the House. That means we'll do it ourselves. We have always said this along with all the talks and negotiations concerning the Police State Protection Act. [[Call the SPÖ: We have said that a few times before!]] And that the colleagues with whom we have had a good conversation climate do not forget: We have had a final agreement that we want these measures to be implemented at the same time as the law. You didn't even go there. And then you make yourselves there and say: Now we have to get on with it so we can get on with it! [[Abg. Stefan: Don't understand what he's telling you!]] The government groups are always committed to this, we have exactly our ideas. By the way, we were chordd, as there was not even a contradiction, because there were quite other things behind it. I say once again what I have said in the State Protection Act today: It should be considered by those who constantly believe that we must settle this with a judge in the State Protection Act! Then I wish you good luck, because the weaker the parliamentary control will also be in the subcommittees or in a subcommittee, no matter what its name, because to this day the House has not brought together that the justice or decision of a judge is controlled. You can tell that a hundred times, colleague Steinhauser, that's what it is. Now I don't really want to deal with the individual details, I don't do that to anyone, not myself. We are at our disposal, that is no question at all. Do not act as if the government groups did not wish to have the right to strengthen Parliament and to control Parliament! We offered it, we actually had it done. Whoever hasn't gone along because it's a two-thirds matter, you were – just so much so you don't get it in a completely different direction. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We are at our disposal to conduct these talks. I would like to invite you to this. But we do not want a half-hearted solution, but a proper parliamentary control. And don't think we're gonna move anything to the judges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I'm not saying good evening or good night now, I'm saying good morning!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e37122	Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e37143	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Alm, I do not know if you will have your speech. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. If we have adopted the State Police Protection Act here today, we know that it is a narrow hole between freedom and security, but we must go. We know that there are events that enable us to also pass such laws, and that parliamentary control must take place absolutely. That's not a question at all! And the previous speaker Pendl also said that the mechanisms are already planned. But in this specific discussion, it is ultimately about whether we are creating an additional committee here in Parliament for Members to control this, or whether we do not have the opportunity of the existing two committees, the Subcommittee on the Defence of the State and the so-called Stapo Committee. I think that would be necessary, because if we are seriously discussing the Rules of Procedure, we could ask this question on many committees whether we could put something there or there together, save resources and perhaps let the committees take place a little more often if we fill them with appropriate topics. But the premise that Parliament's control is not wanted by the government parties is absolutely wrong in place. We're definitely for that. Only: The question raised in your application is whether it should be a committee of its own. And here we think that doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e37189	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e37220	Mr Pendl, the argument that a... – It will be better. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Listen! - Oh, I'll convince you! [[Abg. Pendl: It won't be better!]] The argument that judicial control of parliamentary control is opposed is not correct. It is not true, therefore, because the test scale is another one. We examine the political responsibility of ministers in connection with the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] – Of course! And the same would be if we were to control justice. We do not control the courts, but we control the prosecutor's office and its attitudes, which are in charge of the Minister. Of course, we could ensure this control of the public prosecutor's work in a parliamentary way. There is only no majority for it. But it doesn't matter at all. There is nothing against the parliamentary control of the BAT, nothing against parliamentary control by the prosecutors. It needs a two-thirds majority, that's it. In this respect, Mr Alm's request is also a basis for further entry into the discussion. I have the impression that the debate has ended rather than started. I just hope that it is not so and that the State Protection Act will follow parliamentary control as well. I interpret my colleague Pilz that he is there in good conversation with you, and I hope that this will remain the same. [[Call at the SPÖ: Where is the mushroom?]] But, of course, Mr Alm's request has his right. You can argue whether this is the ideal model. But it is an important request in that it clearly shows that this parliamentary control is needed, and it has nothing to do with whether there is judicial control of the individual monitoring instruments. This is a completely different control from the political control we are taking here. So parliamentary control of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism also applies to the new regulations of today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e37279	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 1475/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[01:29:21]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-01-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00111_d8e37313	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1490/A(E) to 1529/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 1.29 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
