ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6476	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'll open the 136. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 132 and 133. ==References== ==References====External links== Meeting of 16 March 1990 In June 2016, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Knes, Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich, port sticker, MA, Kitzmüller, Mag. Schrangl and Schellhorn. [[09:06:31]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6510	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that the Deputies are Mag. Gernot Darmann, Ing. Heinz-Peter Hackl and Mag. Sonja Steßl waived their mandates and Mr. David Lasar, Mr. Ing. Wolfgang Klinger and Mr Mag. Dr. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger was appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formulas and calling for names through the writing, the mandates will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Gahr, to read the vow formula and the name call. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6568	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6593	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst and will now give you a short time to welcome the new Members to the House. [[General condolences.]] I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will also be transferred live, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.45 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:08:45]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6628	We are now arriving at the current hour – I welcome Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Hammerschmid – on the subject: “Shoe, test stress and central matura: so what?” The first speaker to speak is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. I give the floor to you and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6655	Good morning! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning, I would like to congratulate all students, all teachers, all parents who have just completed a successful school year and wish them a nice and relaxing holiday, especially those children who have stood at an interface that has just made the fourth folk school class – those who have a child at that age know what that means – or who has just made the central matura. I think you all have such children and parents in your circle. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] We have devoted the present hour to the topic of central matura, Mrs. Federal Minister, not because we now want to discuss only grades, numbers, quotas of permeability or permeability, but because there is a great promise behind the whole subject, which, I believe, unites all of us here in the house, namely, the most important is the future of our children – the most important political, educational promises, but that is often not solved. Children in Austria, young people in Austria – I believe we have achieved consensus on this – need a better school system, need better opportunities to develop their skills, their potential. An important principle is that if you are afraid, you can absorb a lot of bad and very difficult teaching content, develop skills. We all know this from sports. We could also observe this a little at the Austrian football team: Fear and pressure are a very large blockade. That is why it is a very important educational policy goal to realize school without fear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Which one of you can still remember his school career, the Matura? – I know many adults who still have nightmares when they remember the Matura. There may be. – Mr Rosenkranz smiles. Maybe you had this in Latin or mathematics? - I don't know. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No! How many things in life you don't know about!]] - Yes, I only asked you once because you smiled like that. I would just like to involve you a little bit and perhaps also have attention from your sector. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's quite adorable! I'll answer that!]] The best thing is probably, when children go to the public school with a lamp in their eyes on the first day of school, they are happy to have this knowledge, these natural learning friends. And the unfortunate thing is that this is going to be lost in the school system. Frustration, anger, blockages are triggered. Our important political goal – and that, I believe, is not only for the Green Group – is to take pressure from this system and change the system in such a way that we can focus on the strengths that we do not spend forever on the weaknesses, but that we really unleash and lift the potentials of children's strengths. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, now the Central Matura has not achieved this objective. On the contrary! It's gotten even worse, it's gotten worse. No matter where you come from – you know that from your daily life realities – it is very often discussed about the school. You hear sentences like this: Finally, I've got all the kids through the school! Or: Just wait in the AHS, that'll be so funny! Or: Where do I get cheap follow-up in the folk school? – These are topics that move a lot of parents, no matter where they come from, are discussed and the dissatisfaction is expressed. That's why, Mrs. Federal Minister, your Lapidar sentence was "So what? So irritable, because in the reality of life, it is a depressing situation with which you somehow have to deal. There is a desire for a minister who takes this very seriously, who sees and opposes this situation at the same time. I hope you understand this and can understand that we now want to discuss very seriously the consequences of the results of the Central Matura, because simply for many children this obstacle is going so far that 14-, 15-year-olds are already afraid, as the entire upper-level system is focused on it. I don't know who else can remember who did math matura or wrote math schooling: In the past, it was not a problem if you did half of the tasks properly, if you did half the job properly, it was positive. In the meantime, with two thirds of a positive completed work, one can still get a “not enough” because each task has to be completed positively for itself. These are already special mechanisms, with which the entire upper level is directed towards this focus. The teachers, the students only work on the central matura. By-catches become real by-catches; there must be said that there is also a lot of talents that could develop otherwise. We Greens want to change that. I would like to mention a few examples from the past few weeks: In Lower Austria, in a well-known gymnasium, 73 students started the eighth class, only 43 of them did the written matura without compensation examination. Mr Rosenkranz, let us take a look at the following: How much percent are these? - No, I say it: It's 41 percent who didn't, and that's, I think, already a poverty witness for the eighth class. If we all remember our schooling, we already had some security when we reached the seventh or eighth classes. This fear and this pressure situation emerges from the current situation. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Madam President. Maybe you could take a little bit of rest. I believe that the issue is very important, I believe that we could deal more seriously with the future of our young people and children.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6746	Madam President-in-Office of the Council, before I gave you the floor, I also gave some time to welcome the new Members of the House who have just been praised. It's true that this should actually be done. There is a generally high level of noise, without any intermediate calls, but I would really ask that at the beginning of today's session, we focus on following the speeches of the speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6773	We can also do group work. Back again: Of 73 students, only 43 made the written Matura. That's exactly the trigger for just this fear and this pressure in the system. We hope that you, as a new minister, will have consequences. We support the idea of the Central Matura. Of course, comparability is important, including justice, that notes are justly awarded throughout Austria under similar conditions, but now the implementation is so sad that we really have to consider serious consequences and face them specifically. The idea is good, and we support you, you know, but we also demand very concretely that an independent Commission evaluate the results, location for location. Why are there these incredible differences? Why is there such great regional distinctions? Why are there so big differences between boys and girls? The Commission should also make specific proposals to improve the situation, location for site. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A very important measure would be – this is also legible in international comparison, there is this possibility in some countries whether it is Finland or Italy – that the results of the seventh and eighth classes, or at least the eighth class, should also be included in the evaluation. This would have the advantage that one could nevertheless have the comparability, the findings that data can collect, targeted, location for location, even counter-tax, with the teachers, can really do this, but still this fear is taken out of the system and the children must not think about what this does in their CV, if they may not have done the central matura in the first run. That would be our concrete proposals, Mrs Minister. I would like to see the “special tax” paid by the Austrian families, which is still over €100 million spent each year, per student affected, the student concerned is €720 a year. This is a situation that is really unacceptable – a “family tax” remedial aid! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We would also have liked to discuss with you a little more thoroughly what your ideas are now generally about school reform and education reform. We would also like to have a roadmap, and we have been waiting for the results of the so-called school reform for two years now. ==References== In November of last year something was presented, in small baby steps the ministry is now working forward. We've got to make pace here. Every lost semester, every lost year goes at the expense of the children. As soon as possible, we would like to see a concrete timetable and speed as far as school reform, education organisation and school organisation are concerned. There's a lot to do. One last question – perhaps you can take it with you –: How do you actually stand on innovative school models? What do you have to say about these projects in Vorarlberg and Vienna? We have the impression that there is now also great restraint. Personally, I would like the witness to a nine-and-a-half-year-old child not to be the most important witness in his entire life because it decides on the education career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6833	For a preliminary opinion, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Hammerschmid to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6855	Good morning! Madam President. Dear High House! Mrs Glavisch- nig, thank you very much! I am very pleased that we have this current hour here today, because from my point of view I can clarify, show, illustrate how Central Matura is dealt with and how this central matura is going about, above all. Many don't know in detail. I would also like to take the opportunity to explain how this looks. We've done a central matura this very first time across all school types. That was the very first time! This is a system changeover, a major system changeover, which is accompanied by the previous changes in competence-oriented teaching. This is a change that really has weight and also takes time, because the educators who need to implement such system changes are already required. That's why it's so important that you have – you have mentioned it yourself: Stress – restores peace to the system because these system changes are already causing uncertainty from the outset. Like everything that changes in our lives, the central matura also causes uncertainty from the outset. So you have to give her time to come to life and work. I'd just like to put that forward once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With the central matura, we have created a system that is fair, which produces comparability, the same treatment of maturants, the same conditions, because it works with standardized tasks because uniform assessment bases are laid down. For the first time, then, comparability and transparency are real. And the central matura is a system that also shows us for the first time where the education system stands per se, because we have documents because we have figures, data, facts that we have not been so far, in the form, in which detail and clarity are simply not available. That is, we now have the possibility with the Central Matura to really analyze the system, the education system as a whole, and see where it needs improvements. The central matura per se – I would also like to mention this – is a system that has proven itself to be the best internationally. We are one of the last OECD countries to introduce this central matura, and we also know from the OECD comparisons that all those countries that have really done well in all the tests and competence analyses have already installed this system of central matura in a very similar way. That means that the system per se is the right way, although we naturally have to try to optimize it. That is no question at all. Quiet: Yes, it is really important to me that we bring this rest into the system to get the fear out again; there I am completely with you. But if I experience that this discussion is fuelled in the middle of the matura period, during the written examinations, competence examinations et cetera, et cetera by the public discussion, which was rather aggressive and tendentious, then we do not bring this calm into the system. On the contrary, we are spreading the fear, we are strengthening the fear, we are strengthening the uncertainty. I believe that each one of us can do something for us to counter it again, to keep quiet and to let the children work. These are stress situations! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The title of today’s current hour is “Shoe, Exam Stress, Central Matura: So what? ” “So what?” yes, I used this fluffy expression. You know why? – Because after five requests, if I do not believe that the matura results are very bad, the data has been analyzed, the data has repeated several times, the data has been explained several times. And I want to do that now, so that we can see what we're talking about. So: Overall positive among the central matura held for the first time this year were 99 percent of the candidates in German, 96.7 percent of the candidates in English and 93.8 percent of the candidates in mathematics and applied mathematics. By the way, private schools have quite the same section and do not really show a significant deviation. In international comparison, we know that 90 percent are generally positive. That means in the reverse: The results for Austria are quite acceptable and are a good result – even in mathematics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: And how was it with the scribes? Did you also bring data?]] We must also not misrepresent the performance of those who have really worked well. It would be really unfair to misrepresent this whole system now. Many students – whom I too warmly congratulate – have passed away positively, and many educators have really done everything in the system changeover to bring this system into good implementation, and one must also be grateful to them that we are already so far as it really works through. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I want to mention another number: 5.9 percent of pupils in Austria do not go to the next school level this year – 5.9 percent versus 6.2 percent at the Mathe-Zentralmatura. That's quite in the same cut, I'd say. That is, we are half-way within the framework of the other uplifting quotas. For the compensation tests: Yes, Mathe was pretty bad in part. However, we know from the math results and also from the site analysis – and on which I come to speak later – that 112 classes have not had any negative results, others have high rates of negative results. Yeah, we have to look, that's not a question at all. But to the compensation test per se: This system consists of two parts, namely the written examination and the compensation test, as was the case before. Even earlier, those who had negative results in the written examination could improve with an addition in the oral field. That is, we actually took over what has always been the case before. It's not a supplementary check, it's a compensation check. Why did we do that? – Because some students simply deal with written clauses more difficult and easier with oral ones. And it is also so – we all know – that sometimes someone has a bad day and there should be a chance that someone can also improve. Therefore, this two-stage procedure and therefore this compensation test option. As we have said, we have seen that individual sites have some really bigger difficulties, sometimes also individual classes, and we have to do something, that is completely out of question. That's why we look at these results in detail right now, up to the school, down to the class. For the first time, we have the opportunity to do so. That was not the case before. We had no idea what took place in detail in the class, at the schools because we did not get these central results. This means that it is now possible to analyse and clarify and also work with the teachers. To the Matura tasks: Yeah, we're going to analyze them, too. Of course, we're going to look at it: What went well? What happened badly? What can you clarify or what can be changed in the preparation? But I would also like to clarify how these tasks arise, namely from the written and compensation examinations: 180 pedagogists from all school types, from all federal countries, develop these questions. These questions will be examined in the wake of 50 experts – scientists, didacticians – and then tested in the field test – in the schools. Every year thousands of students take part in this field test to examine these questions to see: Are the questions feasible, will they understand and examine what they should be, namely, skills in different areas? And only then, after the field test, after the analysis of how this takes place in a good quality management system, will they be included in the test system and also used. Now to the measures directly: As I said, we are now able for the first time to evaluate these numbers down to the school, down to the class, and together with the school supervision, we now have to work to improve here. As I said, this is out of question and that is quite clear. The measures are diverse because they should be tailor-made for schools, for classes. This includes school-based training events, competence checks, increased use of competence checks, and funding courses for less-favoured students. There is a whole range of measures that need to be applied precisely and accurately at the location with the educators in order to achieve improvements. As I said, this is what school supervision is doing with us and should bring about significant improvements. Since the publication of the results has always been a subject, I would like to say a few words about it. This has not happened this year, and I want to explain why. As you know, in this House and in my past, I have repeatedly stressed transparency, which I consider important and correct. But we need two things for real transparency in the system school, in the system central matura, to give the parents, the students and the teachers something in their hands, whatever they do. It takes two things to make transparency: a reasonable legal basis, which we do not have at present. We do not currently have a legal basis to refer to here, but in the course of the information freedom law, we will work towards including it. You know that Minister Drozda has repeatedly publicly declared that he wants to continue working on this law project together with Parliament in autumn and to complete it. And we need a common idea of what we want to publish in what form, so that it really brings benefits and thus real comparability, because if we only go here and play out the data from each school location, then they only have a very conditional power of statement. It is also necessary to involve things that do not result from the pure comparability of the grades: For example, family backgrounds play a role, first language plays a role in German, gender plays a role, school size, so location-related criteria play a role to make this data comparable. To make it quite plausible, a simple example: two sports teachers. One manages to get a student to come from 56 climbing trains to 60 climbing trains, the other sports teacher manages to bring a student to the point where he creates 12 climbing trains instead of 24. – Which one is the better teacher?, I ask you. [[Call: Which one is the better student]] [[Abg. Kickl: A very practical example: 56 fights – very taken from life!]] So I think you have to look at that. Of course, the one who creates the greater increase is the better teacher. I think we agree on this – so look at it, analyze it, compare where it is, and then we can talk about how things are comparable. I would like to make one more point in this regard. It is also necessary to go into the calculation: rural regions, urban regions. In the urban areas, you can easily change school, no question at all. But what do you do in the rural regions if a school performs a little worse and this is revealed in this ranking? Then what do we do? [[Abg. Neubauer: The SPÖlers give their children to the private school!]] The parents are moving away? Do we want people to move? Do we want people to move out of rural areas? Are we going to close these schools? I am really calling for us to think together, with the teachers, with all the political groups: How can we achieve real comparability, create criteria that bring something to everyone and benefit everyone, and create meaningful transparency? I invite all education speakers to think with me here. I would also like to set up a advisory board in which not only the educational speakers are inside, but also those concerned are represented in order to deal with this subject in a serious way and to generate the benefits we expect from transparency as well. Gender Gap was also a topic. Yes, this is important to me, very important even, especially since I come from the university. We're going to look at this, no question, there's already a lot going on, because we've already addressed this topic in pedagogy education. That's where we have to take an example of Iceland, because the girls in mathematics are better there than the boys. So there are also possibilities to strengthen the girls in mathematics with gender-friendly, sensitive teaching. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Summarising the central matura: The central matura is important, the central matura is good, we are on the right track. We can now well analyze and intervene with the results in the sense of improving the schools we want to achieve together with the educators, and that is quite important for our further work. So the direction is right. Two words on the topic of education reform. We are working most intensively on the implementation of all packages from the educational reform with the coalition partner and, of course, with the school partners that we want to get more into the boat. A package has also been implemented, as has been said, thanks to the preliminary work of Gabriele Heinisch-Hosekshon, namely the packages, which start directly with the child, at the youngest, in the kindergarten and in the folk school, which also address parts of the autonomy. Here we are on the next topic: The issue of autonomy will be very central to me, I will be very important. I really want to take a big step forward in schools when it comes to educational, organisational, human and financial autonomy, because I am convinced that autonomy can do a lot of good, even with my university background, because the educators know exactly what the children need. But the packages are, as has been said, all in implementation, are in processing and are currently being discussed in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e6983	I would draw attention to the fact that, according to the Rules of Procedure, all other speakers now have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7009	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Matura is something very special in a person's life. It not only decides an essential phase of life, namely the school career, but it is also proof that, depending on the type of school, the required skills and educational objectives have been acquired. That is, the Matura is not a gift to which you have a kind of claim after spending years of school years, no, it's a certificate of service, and that's good. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Loacker.]] With the central matura we allow the Matura certificate to be truly a reliable certificate of competence and performance, namely for the whole of Austria. From Lake Neusiedler to Lake Constance, in the urban area as well as in the rural area, we produce this comparability. There is more fairness for the maturants, because the questions and also the evaluation keys are uniform and have also been created professionally, for the whole of Austria. This also gives rise to a higher level of expression for future employers, but also for host educational institutions in the tertiary field. And the Matura also stands for a high standard internationally and Europeanally. Especially in the area of the European quality framework, we can say that the Austrian Matura really stands for a very high standard, yes for a brand, and all this is more than just a justification for the central matura. We see that this fundamental system change, which has now passed over the stage, has really been mastered by all involved bravouros, especially by the students, by the teachers, but also by the organizational and political leaders. And for this I would like to express my highest appreciation and greatest thanks: all students, all teachers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this is very often too short in the political debate when the old leader is constantly being taken down, just as we sometimes had to hear that everything in our education system would be bad, and that, I really must say, from politically transparent motives, if, as today or in previous press conferences – today you were a little milder anyway – just the intention of simply adapting to the new minister, who has been in office recently. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The Greens never do that! That's a bad assumption!]] This is obviously the motive for today's present hour, and that's actually not all right, because you obviously take it as a collary damage, that with the intention to adapt the minister also all students, the maturants, the teachers with discredit are discredited. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You can't agree on honest motives! I have a ten-year-old and a seven-year-old son!]] After all, – the minister has called the percentages – in German 99.3 percent, in English 97.2 percent, in mathematics 94.4 percent have been successful. This is excellent in international comparison, and you should not hide it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Where is the substance for your scandalization, for the negative surprise? Negatively surprised by this kind of politics, probably presidential candidate Alexander Van der Bellen, whose style, I must say, was never. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Tell me what's wrong with you?]] [[Abg. Walser: What are you mixing?]] And that's where I want to remind you of the style that's supposed to rule here. [[Abg. Walser: Are you serious about this?]] The results are of course also taken as an opportunity to continuously improve the system, because school is not only a teaching system but also a learning system. And precisely through the central matura we have valid, reliable data to work continuously and specifically on system improvement. We've never had such data, now we have it. Now we know where to take targeted action with support, with support measures. And please do not take this as an occasion to instrumentalize everything politically. We are working together to improve education standards! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7120	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7141	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) “Holzhacken is therefore so popular because you see the success immediately in this activity.” Tests are therefore so unpopular because you get a note, but not necessarily a fair assessment. – The former is by Albert Einstein. Yes, the result of this central matura has caused a great disappointment to many, primarily of course, of those who have been poorly cut off – especially in mathematics – and, in part, because there has already been criticism in advance of the fact that there are too few hours of preparation – and we are also working on it for the next Matura. The disappointment is justified, however, because examination examples were asked which could not be reconciled with the substance learned in the course of the year. This too is something we need to look at, because one should be clear: At the Matura, only what was previously solidified in the teaching material is allowed to be asked, so that one can rightly give these tasks as Matura examples. Nevertheless, we confess to the central matura. Nevertheless, this system is a right system for assessing performance and comparing performance, and it is a system based on producing exactly that fairness, which Mrs Hammerschmid has already mentioned today, actually at the end of the day. Of course, every change of system – also here, Mrs Minister, thank you for this confession – needs her time. Of course, every new system always has fault sources that need to be resolved quickly. You also have to learn with a system. And this study will not be over next year. The next maturants need safety: It is certain that they will be confronted with examples that they will at least be able to solve. Mathematics should not become a stepchild among the subjects. We have now, of course, received this impression once again because of the results. Mathematics is one of the important competences we need, and it is all the more important when we look at the changes in the economic field, where we enter a digitalised world where information technologies and all the knowledge therefore become crucial to our further economic development and, of course, to the workplace situation of our young people. The technical universities will thank us, and our companies anyway, because today we are often already faced with difficulties in not being able to occupy open jobs, because precisely these technical-natural skills are not sufficiently available. We have a great system. Our three-part system of general education, vocational training and dual vocational training is a recognized, institu­tional system. the latter. Half the world is currently on its way to look at our dual system and learn from our social system. We do not at all agree to pass on this information. That means: If we strengthen our strengths, we weaken our weaknesses! The result of the first all-embracing central matura has shown us that it needs to be re-adjusted. Criticism is correct and important. So, of course, the opposition already has an important task. Perhaps you can not only practice criticism here and there, but also bring in good ideas – and I do not mean repeating standard formulations that suggest simple solutions. Education needs to impart knowledge, knowledge so that you can ask the right questions later. Training must prepare for professional life. Our system should be able to do both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7190	Next, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7211	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, the illiteracy of the Austrian education system, so that one might believe that it is all disastrous – however, it is not. We still have a lot of teachers who work hard. We have motivated and hard-working students who do the same. We have parents who are behind their children's educational careers and take care of it. It's not all bad. Perhaps it is only the SPÖ education policy of the last ten years under the silent tolerance of the ÖVP – that is the only thing that I think is a detail. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because the Federal Minister has said that everything is the same and comparable with this central matura: But one thing has not become – and that is what your group, your party, is so happy to do in the mouth – that is fair. It's not fair! – I come later to speak to examples. Let us leave some construction sites – school administration, teacher education, teacher service law, autonomy et cetera – we do not even talk about the gaps in the educational budget or savings in the administration. Let us just look at what our children and young people in Austria are all about! Let's look at the folk school where the cultural techniques are being read, calculated, written so that after completion of compulsory education many are not taken as apprentices, because the entrepreneurs say that we are not there for the failure of the school to calculate, the basic accounting methods and so on, or to take over in reading and writing, that's not our job, here the school leavers are not fit. And what happens? – In the first to third classes of folk school, one even loses the grades, so that they can then be reintroduced in the fourth place, where then there is no comparability with the last three years, but where the education career is decided. That's not fair. It is also not fair for children in Austria to have a witness – please speak, I understand it so badly – after their schooling in the public school, which is entitled to enter a long-form gymnasium, but as a result of the social democratic hunger of the gymnasium in the long form, these children will not be given a corresponding place in Tyrol, Graz, in Vienna, wherever. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Unfortunately, then, education flight takes place from God and unfortunately God must take place. Let us also add that, in financing, the social focus, the social indices are now being looked at. Gift promotion has de facto been abolished in Austria. The nation will not be fit for the future. But let us now come to the question of central matura, because this has been the main topic here, and what has been tailor-made here. Mrs. Federal Minister! You always like to say it and often, I know it from radio interviews, I know it from “ZiB2” interviews, you have mentioned it all the time today, and now you know, I think, how everything takes place – even the compensation tests, you know from the 180 experts and field tests and so on –; the repetitio is never known to harm. But the transparency you want to show here is respectful of the lack of transparency, which is already something else. How many generations of maturants are still supposed to extend the coat of silence that they, and especially the parents for their children, cannot make a school choice? It also does not lead to a comparison of the federal states. It also does not lead to transparency when you wait and say that we do not even look at the written results, but we are waiting first for the compensation tests. While the “standard” – and I assume that you also recognize the “standard” as a quality medium – says that the compensation test is a kind of notch washing machine. Excuse me when the “standard ” writes, then there will be something about it! For comparison only: Out of 940 Matura classes, 112 were without “not enough” in the written Matura, but also 107 classes in which more than half were negative. And now an injustice that concerns the BORG. In the BORG, the results of the written examination were worse, which led to some reactions – for example, Mr Walser proposes a duration of five years for the BORG. I heard only one education expert who said: That's in the nature of the thing, that's quite logical! In the BORG the level is quite different! I think that this is a great injustice when a child starts in the BORG, until Matura gets through labor and effort in teaching loud “very good” and then gets said by an expert: Yeah, but at the semi-central Matura, you'll never make one because you can't! – That is unfair, that must be changed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have a differentiated school system, and that is why we also need to work differentiatedly with the written examples, which are very central to the school type. The student union and the student parliament have also made proposals to this end. And one at the end, since my speaking time of 5 minutes unfortunately God is already running out: At the mathematics matura one has seen that social competence does not matter. The German matura is easier, but here too you need to sharpen, because writing a letter of readers is not maturareif, in my opinion, and in our opinion not maturareif.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7293	Next, Mr. Dr. Walser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7315	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We have devoted this current hour to education, the theme of central matura. And when we talk about a subject that moves Austria, the Austrian children who move the parents because we have had significant bad results this time and because it is necessary that politics react, then, Mrs Kol- legin Grossmann, to speak of a “pattern of the minister” that testifies to the loss of reality, which does not testify that social democracy is willing to improve things here – which, please, are worthy of improvement, and we are working on it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can rely on one thing: We will consistently represent the interests of the students affected in the coming years. Because this is not the case, one has more than twice as many negative assessments from one year to the other, for example in mathematics, and then goes to the agenda. That's how it can be, please, not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister, you have requested a fair system. We support this, we want a fair system. We have therefore made appropriate proposals in the past on how to make this system fairer. A year and a half ago I discussed with the then Minister Heinisch-Hosek – in Holland it was still; I suppose you remember – about proposals that unfortunately have not been implemented. Now we come to the heart of the matter. What's this about? – We need the Central Matura because we need information about what students can do after 12 years of school. I'm sorry, but the That's a system change, I'll give you all the right. There are difficulties in this system changeover. Our proposal was not to let pupils get to the handcushion in these difficulties, but to build up systems that facilitate this. Eva Glavischnig has made very specific proposals, and she has presented proposals that have been on the table for a year and a half, such as this central matura, but that are included in the final evaluation of the students' annual grades of the eighth class and possibly the seventh class. This would be an comprehensible picture for the students, and it would take a lot of pressure out of this whole system. I'm told parents – yesterday a mother was with me who told me this – that in the second class of the lower level the students are already being pointed out: But at the Central Matura you need that! – This has become a pop at which the students throughout Austria are afraid. This is pressure that is unnecessary and that we want to minimize. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And with this, more justice comes in: a second assessment is binding in the event of a negative assessment! This right does have students if they are negatively judged that there is an objective second ruling! If we want a central matura that gives information about what students can do, then we also see that this is assessed externally – if in one case or another their own teachers may have special sympathy or whatever. Objective assessment means external assessment, and in this direction our proposals also go. So, Mrs Minister, we have made a whole series of constructive proposals. Hit Don't get this into the wind! We have pointed out in the changeover to the New Secondary School that this assessment grid is impossible. At that time we said seven grades for fourth graders, that's not possible. Now I take away the media that after a few years the Ministry comes to realize: I can't! – If you were to listen to the objections of the Greens earlier, then we would be left with a lot of stress for the students in particular. Then students could learn in peace, then they could We are developing a system as we want it, a system where children are curious and remain curious. This is not guaranteed at present because fear is known to be the worst counselor. One thing to conclude: We cannot afford to carry on in Austria a system that hinders the talent that does not allow students to develop their potential. We need a basic school reform. Mrs Minister, we will not tire to point out that we may have to face up to all the criticisms that we may have to face from the Social Democratic side. We're still fighting!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7402	Mr Klubobmann has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7423	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the screens and on the gallery! Dear students! I also see teachers here. We are negotiating the issue of central matura, and in fact we are under the obligation to further develop this instrument very quickly. Of us NEOS there is a clear commitment to central matura; not because it would be self-interest – I think it would be completely wrong to see this instrument as such – but because it is an instrument for the quality development of Austrian education. And we need a comprehensive development of education! Circumstances are known that too many leave the school system early on, without being able to read and write the cultural techniques properly, that of course we have many misguideds, even in high school, in higher education, in higher schools, where young people find that they are actually wrong – that means high drop-outs – that of course we continue to spread too much frustration through the school system among students, but also with parents that we are not sufficiently able to develop the desire to cultivate the innate desire to learn. Here we have to take care of further development every day. Why does a central matura need it?, some will ask themselves, because of course this has now also been widely discussed in the media. And I also understand the excitement of many places – I think every one of us who has made tests that Matura has made can remember that this has not happened completely without bamboo, without a lot of tension. And so I fully understand that, of course, the Central Matura was also a very controversial project, because it is a point of compaction in the life of a young person, even in family life – the whole family trembles with it. That is why NEOS has always been particularly important to us to deal with the subject very carefully, because as a political force we have prohibited ourselves from doing business with fear. That, of course, within the framework of the matura-thematics and debate is a lot of fear in space, we were aware of that, and that is why we are very careful in this discussion. Nevertheless: Confession to the instrument, confession to the need to further develop it. We also need a mid-term maturity for 14-15-year-olds. Why do we need these two maturity points? – Because we have to talk about it as a policy and we also have to define the framework: What should our young people 15 years old be able to do? For this to be defined, politics is there. We need a social consensus when it comes to: What should young people be able to do after eight years, after nine years and then after 12 or 13 years of school? Mrs. Minister! We NEOS believe that we need to further develop the central matura, and this raises the question for us: What will I do when I'm Minister of Education? – We need to slim the central matura a bit far in the sense that we should focus it on the core subjects, which should then also be a university maturity. We currently have too much differentiation. We have too many versions. We have 71 different exams, 38 to the AHS, 33 to the BHS. In my opinion, that is no longer the central point. There are still too many school location-specific elements in the central matura. I mean, the fact that in the case of a teacher's calculator in any form, in which other teacher is not allowed these aids, can't be. We are in favour of the central matura being held in a school-to-school space, as well as the admission examinations for medicine, but then it is really evaluated centrally. I think that would be important, and this is also an international standard. If we say that the Matura should be carried out centrally, then the results should evaluate school-external forces. Common core: central evaluation, with comparability. And it is, Mrs Minister, of course a great opportunity to get into a determined school development and thus also to a school autonomy. That is what we all want, six political groups. We just don't agree what exactly we want, but that we want it, we agree on that. We want us to practice this every day. We should therefore – and my colleague Claudia Gamon will do this even more – make the results of school location specific public, like to be in a level plan if they can't immediately, with determination and with an eye-to-eye view. But we should publish it in the medium term. We should come to school-specific development measures. We must take the authority into account – very important! The Authority can exercise that it immediately takes the first steps: away from a controlling authority to a development partner, a service institution for schools that says: What do you have for results? Aha, this school location has these problems, that one has other problems! We put you together two schools, promote cooperation. That means: School as a learning organization. That is why we have these instruments. A determined further development is important. We're at it anyway. I look forward to the round that you, Mrs. Minister, have announced. We'll take you to the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7482	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7503	Madam President. High house! We're talking about the central matura today. Only: The central matura is at the end of an educational career, and that is why we also have to talk very strongly about what is happening at the beginning. We have already heard today, especially with the youngest ones – I know it from my own children, they are nine and eleven – when they come to school at the age of six, a lamp in their eyes. You can't stop them from learning until the sixth year of life. They learn incredibly much every day. Then they come to school, and then the following happens: You lose the desire to learn! The Question is: Why is that so? The reason is quite simple: because our school system was stuck at a time when you had no idea how children learned when you didn't know how to get the enthusiasm for learning. That's the problem we have! And because you, Mrs. Minister, said here today: Which teacher is the better: the teacher who creates a child who creates 12 fights, or the teacher who causes a child who has made 56 fights to create 60? I can give you the answer: Both teachers are bad, because there are a lot of children who do not create a single fight. There's the problem! There you have to turn attention to it. We have the same problem in our education system, namely: A quarter of the students cannot read and write. And in view of that, you're talking about maximum performance, are you talking about perhaps causing a child to make 56 or 60 fights?- Oh, my God! That shouldn't be in focus! In the focus of sports education to take up your example, it should be that one creates a certain basic fitness among children, promotes versatility. That's what's important, and not any top performances, especially in the sports field! That is why we should talk about the teachers. We should talk about the question: Where do we have good teachers, and what is a good teacher? I can tell you how it works in our education system, namely if you as a child have a reading weakness and may be able to learn badly outside, but may be incredibly talented on the other hand, for example in mathematics and technology, then you have bad cards in our system, because it is very important that you can just read well and learn externally. If you can't, you have a problem in our system. Now we come to speak to the teachers. – The question is: Do we have good teachers? This question should be answered as follows: Yes, we have good teachers, but unfortunately not continuous! We also have teachers who outsource learning and understanding to parents. That is to say, there are teachers standing in front of the class, doing their program there, and there is no interest in whether the children actually get along with what is going on. I once spoke to a teacher, told him: At the end of a class, make a small test where you will find out what the children have taken from your class! You know what he said? – He said: That's why I can't do that because I don't have the time to think about whether the students got something or not! They've got to work this up at home! - That's exactly where we're at the problem! After class, the children go home, and there is the question: What kind of parents are sitting at home? Are there parents who have the necessary financial resources to perhaps organize a follow-up? Is it parents who actually make the effort to ask: Do you have a practice? Do you have to learn something? Are there any tests? Did you not understand anything? Or are it parents who come home and are able to do their work so that they no longer spend the energy needed for it? That's where we have the problem in our system! And there comes that child to the handcushion, which may be incredibly gifted, which may be very talented in certain subjects, but which does not have parents who deal properly with the school child. Such a child stays on track in our system, because the teacher or teacher cannot count on whether the students actually take something away from the school. – This is the problem we have in our school system! Today, Mrs Minister, you have said a lot about the central matura, which in the end says only the following: In one school she doesn't work and in the other she doesn't work. And that's what you've kept silent today. Of course, we are on average good in the international comparison, but there are schools that are cave bad. That's where you have to put! There we have the problem with the teachers! There the teachers are the problem, and as long as we do not manage to establish a comparability between schools as long as we do not manage to re-train teachers who are unsuitable and to use them elsewhere, those children who do not have parents who can compensate will stay on the track. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] This is, in fact, a blasphemy toward those children who unfortunately live in a bad area or have parents who cannot give them the support they need. Therefore: What we need is a free private school for everyone, because there it works, we know! In relation to this, we will also consider the figures together with you, because you have filed the last one. As said: a free private school for everyone! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Then we have an education system that works accordingly with competition among schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7611	Next speaker: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7633	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear students! Dear Maturants! – Mr Lugar, the central matura is hopefully not the end of an educational career. I think further education would do us all a little good – at any time and life-long! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now on the topic “Five Flood, the Math Dragon, Students as Experimental Rabbit” and at the present hour: “School, exam stress and central matura: so what?” – All these were headlines around the theme of Central Matura. Why do I say that? – Faith You, it was pleasant for 40,500 maturants to read or hear negative and panic-making headlines and statements about the examination that is coming for them? – I don’t think anyone here in the room, but no one in front of the TV sets would know that either. Because these headlines and headlines are irresponsible. It is irresponsible to spread such a mood. This, ladies and gentlemen, has not only done various media, but unfortunately also colleagues here in the room. I've got a mood picture of maturants, of students: What did they feel, how did one go, and how did the other go? And there was the following picture: They feel it is equal, because everyone has to be able to do the same, no one has a lighter or a heavier matura. You think the teachers are being checked for the first time. If a class has very poor results, then it controls why this is so, and thus ensures that a steady improvement in education takes place. It is also a new form of knowledge review through different types of examples. Let's go back to mathematics. We have multiple choice, we have sample examples, but we also have reading results. In the language field: Subdivision German: Text understanding and self writing. The students are also convinced that the construction of the Matura is a good one: The written Matura will review what the State wants from them, the oral matura will be reviewed what the school wants from them; and in the pre-scientific work or in the diploma thesis will be reviewed, which they can personally contribute to their matura. The students also feel it is positive that the sub-areas are separated from each other, because this makes it possible to repeat one of them. Pre-scientific work or thesis of diplomas is a good preparation for the university, for the scientific work. There is, however, the criticism that this needs to be clearly improved in some locations, which needs to be accompanied better. And there is also a clear desire to have more preparation hours. I think we're gonna turn on these screws, too. I ask you at this point: Have you been given the impression that the students are panicant and dramatic about how this is spread in some headlines or is presented here today in so many versions? I say it quite frankly to you: It's very little of a cover like that! Each project, each reform lives on the fact that all parties are making constructive criticisms, expressing serious concerns, but also solidifiably justifying them. But at that time one decided to introduce the central matura in a joint way – and the Green Group was there too. [[Abg. Brosz:... works!]] And I say it quite openly: If you choose something, you can practice criticism, because it is important to announce improvements, but you have to make every effort to work on a positive image, to work on a success and to make a contribution to it – instead of talking about everything bad, panic-making and working with overstretchation, and thus operating with little materiality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: That's incredible!]] This also applies to parents' representatives, but also, openly said, to teachers or their representatives who simply did not want to recognize a common matura or central matura and therefore, speaking with confidence, the students have only prepared and accompanied semi-optimally. But we know God thanks also to other examples, including pilot projects that were super on the road, where it really suited the students and they had the feeling of being really top fit for the Matura. I myself have had an experience with ten Maturants, whom I was allowed to congratulate, because they have written their pre-scientific work and diploma thesis in the context of international development, and I tell you: They have brought incredible papers and have already aroused tremendous enthusiasm. In short, ladies and gentlemen: Let us not look at how we get the next headline, no matter what price, but let us focus on those concerned, the young people. Let us accompany young people as much as possible to take a foothold after the matura and through the matura in the job or at the university! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] That's our goal, that's the aim of the SPÖ! Maybe you'll join him. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7707	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7730	Madam President. Mrs. Ministra! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Tests have different functions. An important function is the reporting and feedback function. It shows teachers and students whether he or she has achieved the learning goals. Another important function, especially in the Matura, is the rating function of the test. It grants privileges, in particular the right to attend higher education, a formalized system based on the Prussia of the late 18th century. Many countries in Europe have taken over the century and are now a very important function because of their desire for higher education. Austria's university places are high international demand. This function is very important, and it is very good to observe it as evenly as possible within Austria. And this is done by the partial-standardised maturity test, as the official term is called – the term central matura is more common, so I use it – the central matura is doing very well, although this empowerment function on the other hand also decreases again, because there is now a wealth of access to the tertiary educational institutions – not only the Matura – and because, above all, the influence of the Anglo-American space on our education system in general increases the tendency that no longer the issuing institution, i.e. the secondary school, decides who can study and what he can study, but increasingly the host institution, the university. This is an international trend that is becoming stronger for a variety of reasons. However, I am happy to note that the Central Matura is almost nobody in question today and that only details of its implementation are criticised and improvements are seen. I see it too. However, I would like to stress that the central matura is already developing a wealth of very good effects. Some of these have not yet been formulated, and I would particularly like to highlight one of them because I know them very well from my own point of view. The central matura for the old languages was also and intensively developed by my colleagues at the University of Innsbruck, in cooperation with the school authorities, especially with the national school inspectors of Lower Austria and Vienna, Lošek and Sörös, and together with the Latin teachers and the Greek teachers in Austria. The close cooperation of these actors, which continues – as Mrs Ministra has well described – in the preparation of further test formats, has led to the fact that, for example, there are almost no problems in our subjects and that, above all, and I would like to point out that the central matura has a very positive effect on the examination culture as a whole, because in view of the fact that this obstacle is then to be overcome, teachers in Austria now have to focus the entire written examination system on this central matura and thus to give this entire test system a high standardisation and high quality. I can say that because I myself recently led a corresponding course and cooperated with the experts. This has a very beneficial effect on the general test culture in these subjects. I also assume that for other subjects, even though I know that one has not come to the appropriate solutions everywhere in this high consensus, but one continues to work on them, and it will still be. One last word about the complaint I constantly hear that the school exudes the desire for learning and curiosity to the children. – You can’t get that easy don't do it for two reasons: Firstly, of course, it is also developmental psychological elements that play there, which reduces this curiosity and this desire to learn in the course of child development, and secondly – and that is also important to me to say once – learning is always, even in childhood, not only lust and curiosity, but learning is always effort, is always effort, is always, always, when it comes to reviewing the learning results, naturally linked with pressure. Not for nothing has the Latin word for learning, that is, discreet, in its succession the substance “discipline”. While discipline also means the area you are learning, discipline means, as we all know, also control, effort, accuracy and also means to stay on the matter, and much more. So learning also has this page, learning is also performance that needs to be accessed sometime. And this aspect must also be right. And, of course, this aspect also leads to a certain pressure of performance that we have to endure again and again throughout our lives. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] Why don't we have to learn and stand him in school? Overall, I think, is the central matura...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7781	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7797	Final sentence: The Central Matura is on a good path, and I wish it would be even better with the help of all those involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7824	Next, Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7845	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! At the end of his remarks, my colleague, Mrs Tegenle, said quite correctly that learning has to do with it, so to speak. So it was good that he had a few sentences more than the speaking time. I think it is good and important – that is no question at all – that we are having a debate on the central matura here today. It is also important that we regularly have an educational discussion here in the House. But what saddens me is, on the one hand, the fact that we are talking about the central matura again today, as it were. When it takes place and when it is in the media, it is, as it were, placed in the focus, otherwise we only talk about it on the verge. On the other hand, I am sad that we have had a debate on education in this House, but obviously also on the part of the government, for years and days, where we have had too few results. If the SPÖ is currently motivating about the fact that the media or media-public coverage has brought in a vortex – yes, it was also the media; the woman minister has mentioned this – then in this context I recommend a call to the associated chief editors in the ORF or the “standard” or “Austria” then the problem may be solved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Members Kucharovich and Grossmann.]] – Not funny, but sad that you have to talk about it. On the matter: I've got a little sister who's a smart young woman who just made Matura a few weeks ago. I must say, I'm very proud of her: She spent eight years in the gym with excellent success on the road. She also made the Matura with excellent success and was particularly good in the scientific subjects. Her professional desire or desire is now to study dentistry, and as we all know, there are now aptitude tests for it. After three or four weeks ago she completed the Matura – along with this stress, which I believe is not a question – with good grades, she now has to make a test of fitness and already struggle and learn again and – we all know that it is not a guarantee if you are good to make it there – hope that she will then also get into the quota accordingly. Now it is clear to me that the aptitude tests also have something to do with the inflow from Germany, but I still have to ask the question in this context – also Colleague Dägenle has mentioned this –: What is this Matura worth, if it is actually a university maturity, but the universities are starting to review it again? Is it the Matura that's not worth anything? Is it the universities that are not linked to our AHS? It is, as I think, a finding that rather indicates that the Matura is a little too little worth, because I know another example of a law or legal history professor who always asks his first-semester Jus students when the Republic was founded – something you should know about an AHS matura – and he has told me that up to 50 percent of the maturants do not know. There are then quite as sad answers as 1938 and such stupidities, that is, a really terrifying finding. On the one hand, I think it is clear that the level of education has been reduced in general, that the level of education has generally fallen, on the other hand, but on the other hand, all are pushing into the AHS, into the studies, we have the Bologna process, where we have a 40 percent academic rate as a goal, which I think is the completely wrong path. Why? – If we look at which countries in Europe are well placed, then we see that these are countries with a high skilled workforce rate, namely Switzerland and Norway, and not the countries with an artificially high academic rate. And we in Austria are on the best way there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's the conlusio? What consequence should we draw from it? – Well, it’s better to give our young people a solid craftsmanship, especially in the primary school and in the middle school, and then then equip the Matura with a certain value. I mean, it is, on the one hand, the strengthening of basic education in folk schools, the provision of basic cultural techniques that we need to strengthen, but it is also – and that is not a question at all – the mastery of the German language for the visit of the regular education to be required. There's a big problem. In addition, the departure from the utopia of the general school is necessary, it is the strengthening of the differentiated school system, as I mean, quite, very essential, and, of course, one must not only place on the pedagogical component when it comes to teacher training, but – especially as far as the AHS is concerned – also on the technical component. If I think of the humanities there, then I put We also have a problem with teacher training on the technical side. I am aware that this government will unfortunately not be possible. That is why, once again, the urgent call for advanced elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7930	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e7951	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I'm sorry, but I just feel a little bit like I'm on another planet, because I honestly don't understand how Members of the government groups or even you, Mrs. Minister, really stand out here right now and say that everything has gone great at the central matura. [[Abg. New builder:... sneakers!]] So I don't know, the mood in the schools is definitely a completely different one. In most of the schools I was in and talked to the students and teachers, there was massive criticism of what was going on, and I think you have to take it seriously. That is why we Greens have called for a current hour on this issue in Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To be honest, I would also like to say that if we in Parliament were to involve a little more experts – including those concerned – because teachers and students, I think, talk differently about it now and report from practice how the central matura has worked this year. There has been some criticism, such as smaller things, such as different aids used in the Matura, too few hours of preparation, and the formulations of the questions were partly the subject of criticism in this matura. But even more important is the fact that the two major central promises made by the government regarding the central matura, which have been made inside here, have not been met. Their objectives will not be achieved at the moment. First of all, there is to be mentioned – because many of you celebrate the competence of the central matura as such –: The reality is that everything the BIFIE is putting into the internet right now, everything that comes in there right now, and the data of the last Matura, currently pumped in the classes, is being learnt, strained externally. With a matura, probably never as weakly learned externally as now at the Central Matura. Just against the background of the findings of brain research of the last ten, twenty years, namely that one forgets 98 percent of what one learns from the outside, but after that does not continue to use in everyday life, within ten years, I find that one cannot now say that the competence orientation of the central matura has really been successful in practice. I am sorry because there is a lot of energy in it that could be used much better by the students and also by the teachers. The second major promise was the comparability of the central matura. Now it is true that there are classes in which 80 percent of students have passed through – we have already heard of schools in which 50 percent have passed through – and on the other hand we have decided on this path, for example, HTLs, which have been very well cut off in ma-thematics, simply and simply because students who go to the HTL have also opted for this path, not others. This, of course, means that those schools that have not chosen to put in an infinite amount of energy to achieve these common standards at the Matura. This then leads to the simple and simple neglect of the stories in which you are good, the neglect of what you have talent, and where you have chosen the central matura and where you have set your priorities, then the full energy has to be put in. I give you a concrete example that has made me very concerned, namely the school where I myself have graduated, the BRG Viktring in Carinthia. Among other things, this has a musical focus, i.e. there is a visual branch and a musical branch. In the musical branch there are students who have an incredible musical talent, which are actually young musicians. There's a group of very talented people, and now out of eleven people, seven people have got a five at the Central Matura in mathematics. But these are people who practice a lot every day until late into the night at the instruments and musically incredible. There's no consideration of the central matura. And I wonder, Why are they bad and cut off worse in mathematics? – Simply and simply because it is less important to them in their lives, and possibly because they are not so good in mathematics. And I'm also wondering, Is that really so bad? Does it really make Austria a better place if we now force these students to learn, so to speak, sad mathematics and to practice less music? So I think that we just need reforms at the Central Matura, that we need to focus on people more individually and take more into account such talents, because otherwise the only thing that happens is the worst thing you can do in a school system, namely that you kill the desire of students to learn. And that's the worst thing that can happen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We MEPs need to change our thinking about the school system, I think, a little. We still have an old system in mind, how our schools work, because we still have a factory system from the 20th century. Having in mind 30 students in a class, 50 minutes-floating band-hours, one-teacher-frontal lessons and now still the central matura. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] I mean, the school of the future will go in a completely different direction, because it is one that focuses on people who rely on individual learning, who rely on talents and who put them on strengths.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8001	You now have to write the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8016	Yeah, okay. I'm not so good at complying with rules, I still have old Matura. In any case, I think the school of the future will go in a completely different direction, and I think that we should go much more in this direction and trust us much more. We really have to get out of central matura, so that the students do not fear learning, and we finally have to make a basic educational reform in Austria that has been waiting for decades.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8045	Mr President, your speaking time has really been exhausted. That was a long closing point. - Thank you many times. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Julian Schmid.]] Mrs Gamon has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8079	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The idea of a centralized, standardized and comparable central matura is not only that one sees that there are differences, but also that one sees where these differences exist, where they come from, that one collects useful data that can be used to analyse the causes and then eliminate the problems that exist in some locations for the future. That's the idea behind it. It takes evidence to solve problems. That is what the Minister has already mentioned. Yes, there are some problems with the central matura. This has already been sufficiently mentioned, as has been explained, what could be done better; there are different proposals by the parties. But what's annoyed me a little bit is that the idea of the central matura is being called into question here in principle. I wonder why we are even criticizing an instrument, just because the results it has produced simply do not fit us. This is a classic shooting-the-messenger problem, so something you really shouldn't do. Just because one does not match the result, one simply recovers the instrument that has produced these results. – That cannot be the answer! This is a dangerous conclusion, which is also evident here in the debate, and I think it is a bit intellectually unreasonable of the Greens to question it and also to insinuate that the problem is the central matura, where it is, in fact, the greatest opportunity we have ever had in education policy. Then: What did we think about what was going to come out? – That regarding the Austrian education system will prove that our system, where we have been sending children in one direction or another at the age of ten, leads to wonderful results and that we have uniform education standards? Did anyone really expect to find out that all schools have the same results? – That would be absurd! I don't think anyone expected it. I mean, the central matura was also our attempt to get a proof that we have very serious problems in the education system and have to deal with them. Dear Julian Schmid, I find the story very nice that at your school in Carinthia, people really practice intensively on their instruments, but that doesn't change the fact that when they do the matura and then go to college, they also have to meet uniform education standards in mathematics. It's just like that! And just as there are schools where many in mathematics have cut off worse, there were also many where there were no five. This is also what we need to discuss here in itself: Where do these differences come from in school standards? Where do these differences come from? Why are there teachers who, perhaps even year after year, consistently deliver worse and worse results, and others who deliver better results, although the school still has no way to intervene and change it? Why is it that there are great teachers who can be praised, but there may also be teachers in whom the central matura actually provides data that show that they Is it possible that this profession is not so suitable? But there is no way to resist it in the school system. The central matura – and this is perhaps the most important sentence of my speech – is not the problem, but it shows us the problem! And if we do not take this opportunity, it is really the biggest mistake we can make in this debate. The ÖVP Vorarlberg is a super example. Since Landesratin Bernadette Mennal said before the comparable results were there – she criticized the authors because the tasks were too difficult to read – that's not what you do. I find what one cannot do is to steal from this responsibility if, in one federal state, there were disastrous results other than in another, what one sees, for example, when comparing Vorarlberg with Upper Austria. There the councillor steals from the responsibility and is simply angry once because someone may have miswritten the questions, so that they obviously did not understand the Vorarlberg students as well as the Upper Austrian students. That can't be! That is not responsible to all students in Vorarlberg to take responsibility! What we already see, however, is what we need to do – and since I ask you, Mrs Minister, to hear within yourself whether you do not want to think about it again – is to ask yourself whether it would be useful to publish the results, because I believe that knowledge is power – and in this sense also power to pass on something political in education. It is very important that we publish the results so that we can really look at what are the factors of influence that lead us to find out where the differences in the individual locations come from, so that we can also develop the Matura and come to a real comparability, as Mr Klubobmann Strolz has already pointed out, so that we also have a real central matura, and that we continue with index-based funding, so that we can also look at those schools that have worse results where these results come from, and ask whether the schools may not need more resources in different areas, so that they can deal with these problems. This is the task that Central Matura has also given us politicians, these are the problems we need to solve for schools. And as I mentioned earlier, The only mistake we can make now would be to take back the central matura in development instead of really looking at what are the problems at the schools that lead to so scarcely different results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8152	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8173	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Appreciate colleagues, spectators and spectators on the gallery and especially in front of the televisions! One thing is very significant at this current hour: We are now discussing the central matura for over an hour, but Mrs Glawischnig has included two other very important issues, namely the fear of school and the stress of exams. I may mention the following: If you were an active 20 years of district school council, if you were a teacher for kindergarten, school and sports for 20 years, and this dissident Here, Mr. Colleague, and having four children and 14 Encerl, one is a little more professional to talk about this subject because one can speak from experience. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] Many talk about books they have read, and expert opinions, which are also important, but, as one can feel or see in many fields, often do not lead to the optimal result, and this should also be true of education. Mrs Grossmann, it is actually not about the opposition wanting to adapt a minister, but – quite the contrary – it is about one of the most important areas for the future of education, and it is about the fact that there has been a lot of failure in recent times. Mr Rosenkranz rightly referred to the over-bureaucracy. Well, of course! I bring the example Upper Austria – because it was just quoted by my previous speaker –: Why do you need an Education Council and a National School Council President in Upper Austria? Here, just to illustrate the bureaucracy, I took along an expression of the National School Council Presidency. [[Keeping some expressions in height]] There is still so much to save and so much to unravel that you have to ask yourself: What has really happened there in the last 20 years? – Well, during the country election campaign, a brief discussion was made about bringing this together, of course making the savings, and hardly any election has been made, the result has hardly been announced – and it has not been lifted – the announcements have already been buried again. That's exactly the problem we've got here! And what I'm particularly missing and what's going through this discussion like a red thread: I don't hear about the cooperation and the important role of the parents – whether father or mother or single parents. No teacher has a chance if parents at home do not support, cooperate, contribute to the school system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This starts in pre-school, which is about the primary school and the primary school – and no matter if it ends with the matura or with another educational path, parents will always play an important accompanying role. This is a very important priority, and I think it is very lacking in education policy. The role of parents needs to be highlighted much more! I would like to thank all the educators, fathers, mothers and single parents at this point, but also all teachers for their performance, because I assume from my basic understanding that everyone is making the best effort. And if proposals are made on the part of the opposition, I would ask you to recognize them and not to mutilate them as an attempt to adapt the government or even the new minister at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr. Julian Schmid mentioned something very essential earlier, including our clubman Robert Lugar, and I believe that much more needs to be done about this. We need to work out much more the inclinations and skills of the students. What does it help, Mrs. Minister – in relation to your example – if someone makes 75 or 80 instead of 72 lying support when he orientations toward music? – I think it’s good if a musician can play many musical instruments and is formed musically and a sports athlete. There is a need for action – because we are talking about sport and Europe Championships – confirms sports director Willi Ruttensteiner, who has said that the education system has been completely rebuilt. Maybe you can fix it to the example of football team: Marcel Koller needs eleven football players, but he needs a goalman, a defender, one in the middle field and a storm, and not eleven storms or eleven goals. Men. I believe that we must also see this in the education system and promote the skills of the students much more, then we will come much closer to the goal of good training, because no matter what education system this training ends, it is the most important basis for a successful professional life and for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8258	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8279	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the topic of the current hour, the change of the central matura: The math matura seems to have been much more difficult this year than last year. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, fear and, above all, too great a pressure are a poor counselor especially for young people, but a little pressure and demands are already important. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also right and it would certainly be useful if an independent Commission were to look more closely at the results. There are great differences between boys and girls – I think Mr Rosenkranz has mentioned this – but there are also large differences in the individual school locations. There are also large differences between the different types of school. It is also necessary to question whether the Commission, which is preparing the questions, must be so large. I would like to know one thing, Mrs Minister: How does education reform continue? – Education reform, we have just heard, is an important foundation for life, especially in the context of youth unemployment, and it is therefore so important and urgent that the educational reform is finally brought to the fore. Solid education is the foundation for life! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8312	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8334	Madam President. High house! Subjects such as school anxiety, exam anxiety, central matura at a time when most students and many teachers are already in holiday stress, I find a little like: Google Maps has lost its orientation. - But after all. Mrs Hammerschmid, I have really listened to your remarks very carefully, I have listened carefully and have to say that I have actually taken nothing from what our Federal Chancellor Core says at the moment. He's talking about the so-called New Deal – in my opinion, it was more old school, more system-truthful and without flammable ideas! There are so many highly intelligent people dealing with the education system and the reform of the education system. Do you know, Mrs. Minister, for example, the 2013 film “alphabet” by Erwin Wagenhofer? This is a film that deals very intensively with the education system and the corrections, and it begins with the sentence: “We” – the people – “have this extraordinary imagination. Every form of human culture is the result of this unique ability.” And what do we do with this ability? – We are already beginning to destroy them in the elementary school. 98 percent of children come to the world as highly gifted – 2 percent leave school as highly talented! Some top managers are also mentioned in this film. One is asked, among other things, what is the most important property for his employees. He simply says that the competitive thinking must be there, one must be competitive and victory-oriented. In contrast, another manager says: “The reduction of life to economy is one of the worst developments” we saw in 20 and 21. ==References====External links== May I confront you with some other people who are also very committed to a new, modified education system? For example, do you know André Stern? André Stern is a guitarist, is a computer scientist, is a lecturer, lives in France and is a man who never went to school, but speaks five languages and in his lectures on the question: What do the children actually say to you when they hear you never went to school? Well, you're lucky! But you have to ask yourself what you actually do with the will of the children who go to the first class with enthusiasm. A second man you might want to know is worth mentioning, and this is Professor Dr. Gerald Hüther. You may sometimes hear “breakfast with me” in Ö3, then this name will tell you something. He is always asked what is actually the bad thing about our education system, and he answers: Actually, nothing if we know where to release the children. We release the children into a consumer society, and in this consumer society everyone tries to live as well as possible at the expense of the other. Another person you might want to look at a little closer is in this series, namely Richard David Precht. He is a publisher, philosopher, honorary professor at a number of universities and published a book in Germany two or three years ago: “Anna, the school and the dear God. The betrayal of the education system to our children." Ladies and gentlemen! We've all developed further. The world has developed further, the economy has developed further, but the school system comes from a century in which quite different demands have been placed on people; therefore, the cadet schools, in order to train students as strictly, easily and specifically as possible. That just doesn't fit anymore. Our children need to learn more, and they need to learn more. Very often one also speaks of bulimia learning in this context. That is, our children learn the way Seneca said they're learning for school. They learn for each test, and then they forget what they have learned. They learn it, but they can't remember it because they just didn't get the right teaching. I can end my remarks with a sentence not from me, but from Rabelais: “Children don’t want to be filled like barrels, but like torches.” – I think that’s a good conclusion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8395	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[10:48:56]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8416	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:49:12]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8677	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the Members of Parliament have requested Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, to report to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the application 1748/A(E) relating to the appointment of the Constitutional Court of Justice for the establishment of safety in the context of minimum security of demand. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of the debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8707	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 to 7, 12 and 13 and 15 and 16 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8731	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Agenda item 1, EU Declarations pursuant to § 74b para. (b) the rules of procedure of the National Council shall not be included in the day-to-day block period. A day-blocking period of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ for agenda items 2 to 18 has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 95, FPÖ 88, Green 74 as well as NEOS and STRONACH per 39 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club within 20 minutes of this decision, and their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just outlined, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:51:42]] 1. Point EU Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor pursuant to § 74b para. (b) Rules of Procedure of the National Council
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8778	We'll get to the 1st. The item on the agenda, and I welcome Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor and the members of the Austrian Federal Government. These declarations should not exceed a total of 25 minutes. A debate will then be held within the meaning of § 74b of the Rules of Procedure. Now I give you, Federal Chancellor Mag. Core, the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8808	Madam President. Dear Members of the House! The referendum in Great Britain has certainly been a historic event – with a scope that we can probably not judge today, at present, in its full impact. However, there have been some remarkable developments that can be considered with a certain degree of thoughtfulness, in particular those that have taken a considerable degree of the short-term disruptions and uncertainties that have arisen. Perhaps you've been following the news on the Internet a little early this morning, then you'll see that tonight the pound has fallen to the lowest level since 1985. We are talking here about a currency depreciation in the wake of almost 20 percent with significant impact. This is not just an issue for the Businesses are important, but this has led the UK economy to move from place 5 to place 7 worldwide within a week. As a result, the balances of the savers are devalued, which means that inflation will eventually rise and will also be carried out on the back of those who are probably least able to afford it. They have probably also followed how the response of the large companies has been. In particular, the banks have already announced their search for new sites. You have experienced large companies such as Fiat or Siemens, which have announced that they will no longer want to invest in the UK in the future. I know that, of course, this will only have to be subject to a further assessment at this time, but there will be a mood, a cocktail that will affect the British economy in a sustainable way. It is still an observation that can be followed with interest: that we have experienced a campaign that has not always focused on sakha arguments, that it has been a campaign of populist intensification, but it is remarkable that those who have promised simple solutions, those who could so clearly and simply name the scapegoats, have made themselves from the field today. This is a little the picture of a political class who drove the car against the wall and then meant: You got the keys back! Exploring what has happened will not be the elites, but it will bathe out those people who work hard and who can at least allow themselves. But if you analyze what happened, then you have to say that has some British specifics, which is undoubtedly also set up in the history of Great Britain, in its attitude to the EU, but undoubtedly also due to the fact that we have experienced a very critical, almost bordering debate on European issues in the UK over the past decades. And one of the lessons you can learn is that it is not enough once you have done this for a decade, perhaps even longer, in three months to try to set the mood for a real, important future project. But it is not only an expression of skepticism and criticism of the European project, but also – and I think that one must also note – that there has been a scepticism and criticism of the European project, but it is probably something like a general distrust of the political system. We know this phenomenon, because it does not only play a role in the UK, but we experience it in many European capitals these days. And that is why, I think, we are well advised not to point out with our bare finger on the UK and to wonder how we could get so far, but to ask whether we should not be at our own door either in the European capitals, which are an integral and decisive part of the European Union. What I call for is a political debate, in which the European Commission is made a scapegoat of scapegoats. What we have experienced is that we have often seen political debt allocations towards Brussels – in questions and in matters for which Brussels has no competence at all to regulate it, at least not the EU Commission, but which clearly fall into the responsibilities of the individual Member States that make up the European Council. An example that we all know well – and especially in these days, I think, makes sense to point it out –: Migration policy, one of the major European issues that can only be resolved jointly. However, it is likely that it is a really unacceptable attitude to complain of the progress and failure of the European Union, as is the case in the past. Some Member States are taking place, while at the same time avoiding any attempt at a meaningful distribution of migrants in Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I think it is actually political cynicism to cover the EU Commission with accusations. But you have to see, of course, in all these developments, that not everything is in vain; that is no question at all, there have been misdevelopments. We feel it, each of us can name it with certainty. On the one hand, they are the fact that at European level we often have a discussion about the small-scale of political everyday life. I quote Mr Vice-Chancellor, who on this occasion always refers to tractor seats; each of us knows similar examples. The main problem, however, seems to me to be that the European Union was constituted with a promise 60 years ago, and this promise meant: No more war! From this never-forward war, from this promise of prosperity, from this promise of security, which goes along with it, today has become a debate in which the European idea has actually been increasingly lost, and for which we all want to stand up for each other. It has come to the impression that a certain ideology has captivated the European project, which has not once put the interest of the people and of the European citizens in the foreground, but - I am a little bit too - has made the interests of the groups a categoric empire. In the short term, we have two questions to ask, which all of us have to be interested in. The one question is: What exactly is going on in dealing with Great Britain? We had a European Council last week, in which David Cameron took part, and he explained there how he was imagining the further order of prospects with Europe. I think it was positive to note that Cameron stated clearly that Britain will continue to fulfil its European obligations, will continue to participate in the decision-making process, but will, above all, continue to transfer payments on time and, naturally, participate in the internal market. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] However, it has also become clear in this discussion that there is not the slightest plan on the British side, how to deal with this situation, because the advocates have not prepared for it, and the opponents, as we have seen, have not had any serious interest in looking for constructive solutions. This is a problem for the UK, but it will also be a problem for us, because we cannot expect that there are quick solutions and that the negotiation process can be started quickly. We all know that due to the political destabilisation in the UK, the process will probably take some time until there is a Prime Minister and until the registration of the withdrawal. What we Heads of Government have defined in the European Council was a clear principle that has been said, there will only be withdrawal negotiations if the British have made known in writing that they are leaving. These withdrawal negotiations must, of course, be conducted in good agreement: We are interested in maintaining Britain as a partner for security and economic matters, but it must also be clear that there are privileges and access to the internal market at a certain price. This will be a material price, but it will logically also be the case that the four fundamental freedoms must undoubtedly be accepted by the British side. The second question beyond the formal is, however, what this means and how we can evaluate and develop this European project. I saw with interest that this morning the result of a survey was published among young Austrians, which showed a very encouraging result has: 80 percent of our young people have indicated that they feel like European citizens. This is a good sign because it has been understood that an essential part of our prosperity depends on it. We know that almost a million jobs in Austria depend on export, the lion's share of them is known to go to the EU. We know that many of our freedoms – for example, when travelling, working – are very much dependent on our integration within the EU, and we know that we belong here to a community that builds on a value canon that builds on a value system that we all appreciate and has made Europe strong, on humanity and on a sense of life, that the common sense is in the foreground, where not every individual has to look where he himself remains. However, there are two questions that we must address with the greatest intensity, but which also show very well that there can only be solutions in the European context. I think it is our common responsibility to make that clear over and over again. We have discussed the issue of integration intensively and often, and we know that there is one thing that is clear in all the measures that Austria is taking here in this area: When we begin to think about the Austrian borders, how we deal with the question of migration, it will necessarily fail and not work easily. We also have a clear solution here that goes far beyond our Austrian borders, which we can only enforce in the European context. For example, if you are thinking of the agreement with Turkey, this is a good example of how a country like Austria probably did not give way to satisfactory solutions. Terrorism – we know that too –: We need cross-border cooperation, otherwise we will not be able to meet the security needs of our citizens. Financial crisis – we have also experienced this –: Without the determined intervention of the European Central Bank and without professional management of the Greek crisis, the economic turmoil of the financial crisis would once again look quite different. The issues of climate change or competition policy: You can take one question after another and you will always see that we are only together able to solve these great generation challenges. – That must be made clear, and that must be our perspective. It is true, however, that we also have to deal with the question of how we want to develop the European project in general and institutional terms. It is, of course, a logical reflection to deal with the question of what the Union must look like, what we can decide more, what the issues we are dealing with, what the issues we are dealing with, and what the issues we do not want to deal with at least are. But I think you must have realistic expectations right now. We will see the next Council on 16 November. September in Bratislava, which will be the beginning of a discussion on such a reform process. However, the process will undoubtedly last a long time, require much patience and will have to deal with how sometimes diametrically different views can be combined into essential policy areas. That is why I very much advocate that, in these European discussions, we first set the right priorities, and that is a current political issue, which goes along with the issues of migration, security, but ultimately labour market/employment, In particular, youth unemployment has to be oriented. Secondly, and Austria will also have to play a role to deal with the question of how we can get everyone to take their role in Europe seriously. Bratislava will be the beginning of a process. It will, as I suppose, not give major revolutions there – it would probably not be expected – but I think it is good, because if we talk about Europe in these days, it is a project that has an incredible success story that has brought our country a lot, which has brought much to the continent and which is truly not a political havaria. We owe to security and stability, we owe a good share of our prosperity to this European union. Today we have the situation that Europe is probably something like the most admired continent on the planet: Our history, our culture, our economic strength still have and unbroken enormous attraction. Our common responsibility will be that it remains the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8935	Now Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Mitterlehner is speaking. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e8957	Mr President. Estimated colleagues on the government team! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, the referendum took place on 23 March. On June 3, three components: One question concerns the relationship or relationship or the impact on the United Kingdom, the other concerns the consequences for the EU, and the third issue is certainly the debate on the consequences and on the projects for Austria. We've heard this before, but I think it's interesting: In 1973, the United Kingdom joined the European Union with 67 percent, and in 2016, the well-known 52 percent had at least the preliminary decision to resign. Many have also used this to congratulate the United Kingdom or the EU on its protest against the upper class. I think that all of them then had their congratulations stuck in their necks, or they would probably have preferred not to say that when they saw the consequences – as quickly as they did in the case of concrete ones. The Federal Chancellor has already mentioned the actual depreciation of the pound, but also the contraction of the overall economic situation: The experts expect more than 1 percent of the gross national product to be affected this year. This will not reduce by 2020, but rather continue. Only the fact that 800,000 guests from Great Britain are on holiday in Austria is seriously affecting us, because the pound is now less valuable, the vacation more expensive, perhaps they will not come. [[Abg. Kickl: The Russians don't come at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to consider why and why this has happened; it has been discussed earlier. I think the background is certainly that the inner force of the idea of European unity, the idea of disaster, to the disaster, must even be said, of the 20th century. The EU is now perceived as the sum of all problems, of all fears, of all negative emotions. In this context, it is very tempting to conjure up the golden age of the nation state without having to go into and listen to the compromise machine Brussels – which is sometimes so perceived. Of course, it is also a question of what people are doing. I see the problem with David Cameron, who acted there and actually failed. The problem is actually even more evident in people such as Farage or Johnson, who have simply recommended themselves from the sinking ship. Today, it can be read in several newspapers that Christoph Waltz speaks of rats leaving the ship. . This remark is a bit overstated, but nevertheless I do not think that you have a plan, since you leave everything behind now, you can already see that Article 50 has not actually been brought into circulation and that the request has not only not been made, but that you are still fighting in the UK when that will happen. The question is, of course, how to proceed now. In the EU there is agreement that once the application has to be made and that no raisins should be picked. What Does “Rosins ” Mean? – In the final effect, one cannot only have privileges in this context without taking account of the obligations. In this context, Switzerland is sometimes taken as an example and said: Look at Switzerland, how well it did! Look You really go to Switzerland in the future! Why? – Because the mass immigration initiative is still not done there, which is what the negotiations with the EU are about to do. The Swiss Minister for Economic Affairs Schneider-Aunten told me that one has great concerns, which is now more passive with the advantages one has. There is then no Erasmus+, there is no participation in Horizon 2020 and other projects, which are also important for Switzerland. Ladies and gentlemen, if you say so, consider what happens on the other side! If we were in the whole discussion, I would say, be more careful. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of NEOS representatives.]] This also affects the impact of the EU. I have referred to the EU as the EU of the elites, as the EU of the problems and fears, then, I believe, one can only do one thing: that the EU as a whole – and we are part of the EU – is working to restore hope, trust, security. I can only agree with what the Foreign Minister has said recently, which representatives of Germany also said: The EU really does not need a debate on further deepening, the EU needs to focus on solving the major problems, and there is the first and most important issue of refugee and migration. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] To act in solidarity there is the task of the hour. Second: I believe that the EU must also recognise what is going on in subsidiarity, that there are certain problems – not only the tractor seats – that a country can solve on its own, because there is no need for either the EU's rules or the EU's rules. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And we certainly have to counter what is happening in the past, and we can only stress this over and over again, for example, the bureaucracy that actually stands above all these rules and which has already adopted an excess. On the other hand, we also have what is going on in the social field, both there and there, which we should certainly discuss. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very, very important, since there is also a strong attitude to live up to a sensitive behaviour on the part of the EU, and I am very glad that yesterday, for example, the Commission announced that CETA would be an EU-only agreement and declared it a mixed agreement, because 27 Member States also want to do so. Who decides? – The Member States decide! I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, if Parliaments now decide on what we want, then I would also like to have an objective discussion of real advantages and disadvantages and not the same procedure as in the case of Britain. In the United Kingdom, there is the keyword of post-fact democracy: The emotions dominate the debate, and afterwards one is faced with the fact-of-the-art and does not know what one has actually done. That is why I invite everyone to weigh this together and come to an objective decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is the third point, and it concerns Austria: Ladies and gentlemen, Austria has good economic relations with the United Kingdom, which have even grown dynamically in recent years. As far as exports are concerned, the United Kingdom is behind, only products are €4 billion, and the services are considerable. I have already mentioned tourism, we have always had well-paid guests from the United Kingdom, so we want to continue to have it in the future. We will certainly be able to shape what the Treaties have to do with mutual rights and obligations. However, I come to the point of what is the advantage of membership in the Union; for example, look at today's discussion: Large Austrian steel companies have serious problems when it comes to the status of China; it concerns the issue of dumping and anti-dumping measures. Faith You really believe that a country like Austria could enforce this on its own vis-à-vis China? But that's all about – Rainer Wimmer says – 250 000 jobs. I can only thank him. Therefore: All of this is an advantage of the European Union. If we take the word Öxit into the mouth so easily in the form, I would also recommend in this context to consider beforehand what the facts are – as Austria has benefited from the European Union in recent years – and then to make other considerations. The other considerations could mainly go in the direction that we are part of the European Union. We ourselves have the power to hold the discussion in such a way that we work together on the improvements that we actually want, and not always show them to Brussels, I invite them to do so. So don't leave, but improve, that's our job, not only today or tomorrow or the day after, but in the next few years. We got it in our hands! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9026	We are going into the debate. I would point out that according to § 74b para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9054	Mr National Council President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! The philosopher and science journalist Alexander Grau wrote the following – I quote – in the magazine “Cicero” a few days ago: [[Call the ÖVP:Ui!]] "The EU and Europe are two different things. That is why we can also criticise the EU as a critic of Europe, or we can leave the EU without turning away from Europe and its traditions.” Yes, Federal Chancellor Core, in Switzerland, 100 percent of the Swiss population feel European – without being a member of the European Union. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Very smart!]] And yes, the British, too, feel that they are Europeans, even though they – not populists, but the people – have expressed themselves in the context of a direct democratic decision for a majority of them to leave. – You should also take note of this. I say, unfortunately, the problem that arises is that one does not understand the democratic wake-up call that has taken place, but continues as before. The people responsible for this decision in the UK are actually Juncker, Schulz, Merkel and Co. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you should put it, you should actually make these responsible ones duly known. I wonder when these rulers will withdraw. They are responsible for destabilising Europe, and they are also responsible for the great frustration of the population across Europe, which is not limited to the UK alone. For some time now, the British have always had a foothold outside the European Union, even if they have to deal with it honestly. To act as if that were not the case is indeed beyond reality. It's not supposed to be a panic. That's what Grey says: “The overturned and sometimes hysterical reaction to the outcome of the British referendum makes it clear that many politicians and not a few media representatives have come away from the ability to distinguish between Europe and the EU.” I'm saying there's nothing to do with this hysteria and panic. The British will continue to remain members of the EEA, they will continue to trade with us and conclude trade agreements. There will be an orderly process that will take place over a longer period of time until, after joint negotiations, it is hoped that a good outcome will be achieved and that the disadvantages for both sides will be offset as best as possible. That will be the reality. But if one does not learn to do so and if one does not now understand what the desire of more and more citizens of Europe is – namely not to continue the misdevelopment of the European project towards a centralist, completely isolated European state, but to look back on this founding father project of a European Economic Union – then there will probably be other countries, such as Holland and others, who say: We don't want and can't be there anymore! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] This is precisely why it is now about renewing Europe and remembering reforms of a Europe close to the citizen, of a new Europe, of also thinking of the founding fathers and not making the mistake that could also be heard out here on the government bank: All right, all right, the British just didn't understand! [[Abg. Lopatka: No one said that, excuse me!]] [[Abg. Amon: Listen!]] [[Abg. Fekter: You don't want to know the negative consequences!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Sensible hearing!]] This is exactly the basic problem, and I would of course also like to say one thing clearly, because it is also misrepresented in the debate and discussion in Austria: We liberals are not against Europe. No, we are Europeans as Austrians. We stand with Europe, and we want to ensure a new, reformed Europe close to the citizen as an economic union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is precisely what it is all about: thinking about economic cooperation and not making the mistake of developing a politically centralist federal project in which all possible things – from tractor seats to cucumbers – must be ordered, forced to do, but still have not managed to implement a common security package in Europe when it comes to nuclear power plants. I say that there is therefore a need for a common European understanding in the sense of European cooperation, but not in the sense of a central government rejected by essential Member States such as France, Holland or Ireland as a European Union Constitution. For us Europe is the sum of the citizens of different nationalities, different cultures, different economic systems. The strength of Europe lies precisely in the diversity of European peoples and citizens, and not in the keen effort to push everything down to an equalisery, so to speak. I think that is also the message you need to understand from the UK. Brexit has not come from about, but shows the deep crisis in which the European Union is located. One can love Europe but must not be a lover of the EU bureaucrats. Yes, there are incredible misdevelopments and abjections. We also partly see how Mr Juncker behaves by calling the Heads of State as dictators and giving people a treat and other things as they pass by. There you can only wonder which personalities they are and why there has not been a long time of action and corresponding consequences have been demanded. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, one must recognize that if one proceeds with this undeveloped centralist relationship, of course this will also lead to further displeasure. And, of course, the wrong migration policy and international migration last year were also a major factor in the frustration of the British; no question. Who triggered this? – Among other things, this was Mrs. Merkel with strong support from the Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann. You just have to call that clear and clear by name. With their behaviour, these rulers have destabilised Europe by an irresponsible invitation and welcome policy and then – and this seems to be what Mr. Kern believes – believe that the other European countries are yelling at Hurra. But these say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We should now do away with your faulty policy and, so to speak, dispel your destabilisation by the European Union ordering us almost forced allocations, at the best of people who, for economic reasons and often not for the reasons of the persecution within the meaning of the Geneva Convention, are not affected?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The Greeks, for example, rightly wonder where cross-financing went. These were, by the way, the Treaty of the European Union, and I remember the Maastricht Treaty, which definitely stated that it would not become a union of debt. Then one breaks one's own legal requirements, does not take oneself seriously and believes that one will take European citizens seriously in the long run. In reality, these cross-financings have not flown to Greece at all, and they have not arrived at the population either. No wonder, if then, in different areas, but also in Greece, the mood has tipped! It can already be recalled that the European Union itself has threatened the Greeks with Grexit. There is now no artificial panic in the UK. There we will wait in patience and in peace, as it really develops, because there are many economists who foresee quite different developments than you have done today. I say, of course, we also have an extreme North-South gap in the European Union. And we have created problems through the euro that we have not dealt with for a long time. Today, through the North-South gap, of course, we also have a development that countries such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy experience systemic poverty and debt falls, while the net number of countries in southern Europe who cannot meet the criteria ultimately have to stand up with rescue shields again and again. This will not work in the long run, and we have not yet arrived at the end of the problem. If the UK now withdraws and as a result no longer pays a net contribution of €5.4 billion per year, then the question will also be to ask: Who will pay for this failure – or will the European Union finally end up with itself and not increase contributions from the other net contributors? This is also something you have to debate openly. [[Abg. Matznetter: Could you talk a little louder?]] Of course, it is no wonder that there is increasing frustration among net payers. And it is repulsive to experience ritual constituency as it took place after the Brexit by insulting the voters in the UK. This is improper and also obnoxious, as it was partly felt in the published opinion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The elector is the sovereign and has ultimately also made the decision. This is to be respected and accepted. In fact, it was the middle class that made the decision by a majority. The vast majority of boys did not vote at all – because it was always misrepresented – and the 45-year-olds were a clear majority for leaving. It was usually the middle class, which has largely expressed its support for the withdrawal. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] To conclude: EU-critical is not hostile to the EU and not anti-European at all, and if you do not learn the right lessons from this Brexit democratic wake-up call, you have to fear that other countries will follow. I hope you learn from it. We will do everything we can to finally wake up and finally implement the right bourgeois reforms in the European Union and start to take them seriously. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Parent]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9242	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9263	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers in front of the television sets and here in plenary! In the name of my colleague, Marianne Gusenbauer-Jäger, I can also particularly welcome the students and their teachers of the New Middle School of Pregarten in Upper Austria, who came to Vienna today. [[General condolences.]] We all, or at least many pro-Europeans, felt that it was high time that Britain clarified its relationship with the European Union, because it would not have been infinitely prolonged that Britain was constantly cutting itself out on the back of the other European countries, which all the others, like us as a net payer country, then had to carry. That is why this was in itself a moment when it was expected that this European debate might lead to something going on. But what we have experienced was the exact opposite. We have experienced a Brexit campaign that was borne by false promises – some commentators also write lies – then the chaos came and then the cowardly run of it. We are now experiencing the chaos – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has already mentioned it – and the British pound has freely arrived at a low of the last decades, the London Stock Exchange is experiencing a price fall. These are not just figures that change, but they destroy values, especially for the small people, for the workers, for the British workers. In spite of all these developments, Britain is sleeping in a veritable economic crisis, and at the same time, it is apparent that the United Kingdom will obviously fall in the coming months and years, because the Scottish want to go out, Gibraltar wants to discuss Wales whether it wants to go. All this is a record of Mr Cameron, who is a disaster. But as the British says: “The proof of the pudding is in the eating” – now we have the salad here as he is together. Boris Johnson: running away, Nigel Farage – by the way, the party colleague of Mrs Atkinson, who was so courted by FPÖ, who was here in Vösendorf recently – ran away. First they agitate, then they turn the chaos on, and then they run away from it. That is how Europe's right-wing populists act, and that is the true scandal behind it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] They set up a shredded pile, they crush the porcelain, but when it comes to putting it together, putting it in order, then they are no longer there. It didn't take 48 hours for them to withdraw their lies. I only mention the promise that 350 million pounds a week could be pumped into the British health system, but one would not be in the EU. 48 hours later, the one who had promised said this, land up, landdown in the UK: No, I'm sorry, I didn't mean it, it won't come like that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] – This is how Europe's policy can be done, so one cannot make policy! When we come to a serious European policy, as an Austrian Parliament, we come to the question: What does Austria need, what does Europe need? – As Austria, we definitely need a Europe that works better and that is able to focus on the essentials. What is essential? . This is in my view, from the point of view of stimulating economic growth, promoting investment in infrastructure and economic growth, developing the social dimension of the European Union rather than eliminating it if one wants to create a Europe of people and not a Europe of markets. There are three models for Europe in the future, namely the conservative model that puts the free market in the foreground and forgets that people are behind the free market. There is the right-wing populist model, the Europe of the Fatherlands, and what a Europe of the Fatherlands ultimately brings, we know when we go to the so-called Hero cemeterys and look at the tomb inscriptions there. [[Abg. Strache: How was the event for the “little man ” at the Bilderbergers?]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We Socialists are on the third path. The possible social-democratic way for Europe is to create a balance, to strengthen opportunities, to develop the social dimension and to build a Europe of people so that they can see more directly the benefits of European integration. [[Call the FPÖ:Pure air bubbles!]] Finally, a brief comment on the Öxit discussion, initiated by the Third President Hofer: It would probably be the worst service to let our country grow if we were to plunge Austria into the same chaos that now exists in Britain. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Austria has benefited from membership. We are in the middle of the continent, we are an open economy, we are a tourist country. All of this shows us how urgently we need this integration. We are an export nation, 70 percent of our economic performance goes to export and foreign trade. The President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Leitl, once said: Every euro we pay to Brussels comes back three times. [[Abg. Street: Let's just triple the net contributions, right?- Oh, my God!]] As a result, I believe that it is necessary, from the Austrian point of view, to continue to work towards Europe becoming better, more human and social.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9372	The next step is the club woman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9393	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There is certainly no doubt about it: The British No at the referendum has historical scope. For the first time in the history of the European Union, a Member State has decided to leave, and with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, the European Union is losing its second largest economy. The economic dimensions of this fact, the dramatic effects, the uncertainty we already see now, that is not a question, that has already been discussed in detail today. I would, however, like to make a pre-sent: I believe that many problems in the UK are not exclusively related to the debate on membership of the European Union: yes or no? have limited, but many problems there were also strongly domesticated, in particular the poor educational opportunities for young people, the strong inequality in society, the strong focus on the financial market. We have, with great concern, also observed the rising racism, including the attacks. I have personally heard from conversations that people who work in international companies, in which many people from abroad are also employed, report that there are sometimes also attacks on children in schools – that is, really an increasing racism, and this should not leave us all cold. But one thing has to be said to those who have lit the house there: How can we get involved in such a political cowardice and, as it were, leave the population to chaos? – That’s really unique and sharp to condemn! Nigel Farage said the following sentence: I hope that the European Union will be destroyed. I hope we took the first stone out of the wall. On this occasion – Mr. Klubobmann Strache has unfortunately gone out – let us speak plain text: There is a movement in Europe that you are part of, which actually wants the British conditions after the Brexit, this chaos, not only in the UK, but also in other countries. You've been there in Vösendorf with the “Patriotic Spring”, like They call themselves there, even before the Bre-xit referendum, and there have been exactly all these personalities in Austria who have a very clear objective: to destroy and crush the European Union. And we reject the vehement! [[It was in favour of Greens and NEOS, as well as SPÖ and ÖVP representatives.]] They're trying to overthink this now, but we're really talking about clear text about what it's all about: Border bars down, out of the euro, out of international treaties, out of climate protection, out of human rights conventions, out of the Geneva Refugee Convention! – This is the policy you want for Austria. I think that this referendum in Great Britain should be a wake-up call for all of us, first of all to reflect on what the European Union really means to all of us. With all the legitimate criticisms that we have repeatedly expressed, whether this is the economic policy orientation, whether these are the questions of how to deal with a crisis, whether we are more involved in investment, whether we are working more towards a social policy union, I can tell you one thing in all its clarity: We are certainly not going to let the European Union break down by legal populists! [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS.]] I would like to draw attention to one of the problems in the UK, namely the role of the Boulevard. Normally, media should also exercise a certain control function in a democracy, and especially when lies are obviously being used, this control function is so important. But that was not the case in the UK. They have whipped in there, and in particular the Boulevard has clearly participated in lying arguments. This is a development that we must take very seriously. If media no longer perform their control function in a democracy, which game can then drive such open liars, and these right-wing populists have lied on open stage, and I may say that without receiving a call for order, because their way out of responsibility and the reactions the day after they confirmed that this did not exactly agree with the sum transferred to Brussels et cetera, et cetera, shows that they have really worked with lies, and that is... [[Abg. Mölzer: These are Members of the European Parliament!]] [[Abg. Mölzer: This is unheard of!]] – No, that’s the truth! Or do you want to defend Nigel Farage? – Then come down and defend him! It's really a glamour to defend such a politician. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Mölzer.]] That proves exactly what it is all about. You plan to start a withdrawal campaign in Austria within a year. They say openly, if the European Union does not adopt itself of its so-called centralism, and even ask for an ultimatum, namely the one-year deadline, then the Austrian people will be questioned. Speak plainly, tell the truth where you want to lead Austria! Trust me, I have no problem with this, because we will resist, I tell you. [[Congratulation with Greens and NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] I think it is also a good opportunity to think about where we need to work more structuredly at European level. There are a number of very important areas of work that will come to us over the next few weeks and months. We will be one of the first countries in the European Union to ratify the Paris Convention on Climate Change on Friday, and that is certainly a good sign. Without the work of many institutions in the European Union, without the work done in France, there would be no international commitment. It is a guarantee of the future for our children and young people in particular, because we all know what is happening to us if we do not act at absolute speed in this important environmental field. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have a lot to do with financial market regulation – by the way, too, a subject on which your group, with Marine Le Pen in the European Parliament, opposes a strict financial market regulation which is against a committee of inquiry to inform the Panama Leaks papers, which can be credited quite openly by the banks in Russia. [[Abg. Kogler: Because they themselves register from there!]] That's also a subject I don't want to hide. Financial market regulation, the right lessons to learn from the crisis, also a different approach to the Member States most affected by this crisis: These are all important projects to strengthen the strength, credibility and solution orientation of the European institutions. But one is certainly not a common path, the much-quoted path back to a Europe of the fatherlands, as you always call it. They are talking about economic networking and economic cooperation, but especially for Austria, this path is an absolute dead end, and I think that is very, very conscious of all of us. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is the only chance!]] We are a small, open economy. We are a country that has greatly benefited from the fact that other countries have also developed positively in the European Union, in particular the Central and Eastern European neighbours. [[Call the FPÖ: You want the USSR!]] How would the Austrian economy, the Austrian tourism industry, have gone when Germany was in the crisis, would not there have been some good in these neighbouring countries? I think we have a lot of things to do here, and I hope that you will raise the honesty and courage – that is addressed to the colleagues of the liberals – because not to play with the fire like your right-wing populist, right-wing, extreme colleagues throughout Europe, but to really get to reason and what we also have in Europe on a positive footing and what we have gained in Austria is not broken for any political game.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9512	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9533	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== June was certainly not a good day, neither for the European Union nor for the UK. The negative effects in the UK are already seen, and the European Union has not been strengthened. Of course we have a loss: We are losing the second largest economy in the European Union with Britain. We're losing the third largest net payer. We're losing a country that's very strong in the military. We as the European Union have so far had two members in the Security Council, in the future only one. We are losing with Britain a country that has represented us in the G7 group, the economically strongest countries in the world. On the European side, there is no reason for us to be pleased because the European Union has not been strengthened in the world concert of the powerful. But the British people have decided. It has, of course, also been led astray, because those who have acted with untruths – they have even admitted that on the day of the vote – have now failed. Within the Conservatives, Boris Johnson is not a candidate for the succession of Cameron. Yes, and on Monday Nigel Farage followed him. This one meant that he wanted his life back with this step. How cynical is this to the young British who wanted to remain in this European Union by a majority? – This has been taken from their lives, ladies and gentlemen, something has been taken of their chances. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: who remain at home by a majority!]] That is what I am saying to you, because that is the crucial point for me. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] To say this quite clearly: Of course, the European Union needs changes. I wrote an open letter to the Guardian at an event with parliamentarians from the Member States in January 2014, in which we said – and that was long before the vote in the UK – that: There can only be a good development of the European Union if national governments and national parliaments are more involved. – This was after a meeting of Open Europe, a pro-European, I would say, but very critical organization, which deals with the future of our continent, that is, beyond the European Union. It is now about the right answers. This has also been addressed by Vice Chancellor Reinhold Mitterlehner. I think that some in Brussels are already a little too easy. I'm telling you this very directly: I do not believe that the future, a good future of the European Union, lies in a supranational form with a genuine European government, namely the Commission as a European government. This was clearly written by EU President Schulz on Monday in a guest comment – I quote –: ‘We will not avoid turning the European Commission into a genuine European government in the future.’ A day before, the German Federal Finance Minister Schäuble gave the right answer. In fact, he meant: Now is certainly not the time to think of a deepening of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the part of representatives of the ÖVP and the FPÖ.]] He, namely Schäuble, says: “We need to explain clearly what we can do as a nation ourselves and what we cannot do at the best of will. What we cannot do ourselves, we must do at European level." That's what it's all about. [[Abg. Strolz: We need a government to do this! Where is the European Party?- Oh, my God!]] –Schäuble is a large European. He doesn't need you, Mr. Klubobmann Strolz. Scäuble is one of the great Europeans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] I don't want to hurt you, but if I quote Schäuble here, you're far away from what you're going to say later, because I'm telling you one thing: In the financial crisis, Schäuble held this Euro Group together like no other! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to see the economic data that Scäuble can provide every year for the whole European Union. [[Abg. Moser: The burden of the churches go!]] There's another surplus this year too. And Germany has achieved the greatest performance, even in the refugee crisis, Germany has a decline in unemployment. This is an excellent economic policy that is being done in Germany. That is what Europe needs to be oriented to, I tell you. That's the decisive thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Contingent of Great Britain, at the expense of...!]] That is why Schäuble is right when he says that there are acts and not words that are not high-flying, because what has to succeed, and that has also been addressed by the Federal Chancellor, is that in the refugee crisis, we have come to the solution we have made in the Euro Group for Greece. And that is the essential feature of the European Union for me that the Member States – and there is the key to solutions – are ready to compromise and show solidarity. I'll tell you: For people, the introduction of the euro was certainly something with which they had Europe in their hands for the first time. At that time, the EU has become haptic. The second advantage of the European Union, which people have of course noticed right now at the beginning of the summer holidays, is if you can travel freely. These achievements in the Schengen area only work – then and only then – if the protection of the external borders is guaranteed in these flows of refugees, which are on the way. If you want to enter the Schengen area of boundlessness, you need effective borders and controls at the external borders of the European Union. This is the crucial common task of the European Union in these days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Then do it!]] That's where I want more Europe. But I do not want Europe anymore, I tell you, when it comes, for example, to how we form our social security networks for new arrivals who come to us. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I want national states to be able to decide whether there are differences between those who have been living in the country for a long time and those who are making their contributions to society and those who are coming back to it. This must not be imposed by the European Union on the Member States. [[Abg. Kickl: Will it be!]] I also do not want Brussels to intervene in everyday life, I tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want anything that the Council had already decided in February when it was hoped that the British would stay in the European Union to be removed from the table. At that time, for example, it was stated that if 55 percent of the votes of the national parliaments of a decision in Brussels show the red card that national parliaments can actually stop such decisions. And we've seen the last thing. If there had not been this call – also by Vice-Cancecian Mitterlehner – one would have believed in Brussels again that the solution at CETA was a purely Brussels solution with the exclusion of national parliaments. And even yesterday, when the Commission agreed to this procedure, Cecilia Malmström still held for himself: In fact, it is purely legal only for the European Union and not for Parliaments. [[Abg. Kogler: The opinion may have it!]] That is why I say to you: If you do so in Brussels, you are not part of the solution, but you are part of the problem, namely the problem of the credibility of the idea of getting closer to the citizen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] It is always said that the European Union needs to be closer to citizens. If we want to get closer to citizens, national parliaments must also be involved in European decisions, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what I see in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My final sentence: A clear yes for Austria in a European Union that continues to maintain subsidiarity in the future. That is why I believe, of course, that there is also a clear, very clear no to an ecite, but at the same time a clear no to a central government in Brussels, which can make decisions that are much, much better removed here in the national Parliament, so when we meet them. That is also important to prevent.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9740	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e9761	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens, at the gallery here – many young people – at home on the screens and those on the go! We are discussing Brexit, the exit of the British from the European Union, together with the government. I want to go back a few years: When we voted on this in the 1990s in Austria: If we want to be part of the European Union or not, the national legal forces in Austria, the liberals, have said: We shouldn't do that, because then we have to eat all the shield lice in the yogurt and blood chocolate! Now I ask you: Which one of you has eaten blood chocolate in recent years, and who has had shield lice in yogurt? [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, me!]] - No one! The only blood chocolate that exists, Reinhold Lopatka, comes from the Styria of the Zotter, and this is a regional specialty that is exported to all of Europe. [[Abg. Kogler: There really is shield lice! In Campari!]] When the British voted a few days ago: If we want to stay in the Union or not?, the national legal forces came and said: If we get out, then we have 350 million € per week for our health system! – Now is the question: Do the British have the € 350 million per week for the health system? - No! It was a smooth untruth with which politics was made. It was far from fairness. It's not responsible. It's not responsible! [[Consistency with NEOS and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Oils.]] What have we got with the European Union? – We have gained peace, prosperity, quality of life on our continent as on no other continent in this world. [[Abg. Kassinger: We haven't had that before?]] – Yes, we have many problems too. Yeah, we didn't have that before, dear FPÖ. 100 years ago, at Verdun, we had one of the most horrific battles of humanity. That's our past. 70 years ago, our grandfathers were millions in their own blood – they beat each other into millions of skulls – and 25 years ago, the last shots on our external border with Slovenia fell. This is European reality. If you want to go back there, you have to say it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If You want to go where the British are going now, you have to say it. Where are the British going? – The British Minister of Finance – and do you want this to be said by our Minister of Finance in a few years? – announced last week on the basis of Brexit, he must increase taxes, and he must return social benefits, state benefits. [[Abg. Kassinger: That's not what we do?]] If the liberals, the right-wing national forces play here with the Öxit, they must say: We are also in favour of tax increases, we are in favour of returning social benefits! – This is reality. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You are a real populist!]] This is the reality in the UK, officially confirmed. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, I share some criticisms that the liberals present here. It is not true that the liberals are wrong – in many respects they are right – and it is hard to criticize the Social Democrats and the Conservatives because the conditions we have in Europe today are of course not good. People are, of course, ate, and people want a Union, but they do not want this European Union. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We must change this European Union dramatically! We have the majority and levers in the hands of the Social Democrats, and we have them in the hands of the Conservatives. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What makes you different from the FPÖ?]] What makes the European Union different from what I want tomorrow? - Yes, I can tell you. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I don't believe it!]] – If you listen to me, I will tell you in full agreement with European citizens what citizens want: 82 percent say that the European Union should implement closed actions against terrorism. Only seven countries provide reports to a jihadist database. Dear government, why not? You should have been working on it for years! What do European citizens want? – 77 percent say that the European Union should take action against unemployment. Where are the European initiatives coming from? Where are the attacks from the Austrian government? - I don't see anything. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What makes you different from the FPÖ?]] - I'll be right back to what I'll tell you. [[Interlocutors Walter Rosenkranz and Kogler.]] 75 percent say: Europe must act decisively against tax evasion. There are too few initiatives from the individual members of the government in Austria. 74 percent say – with this we differ from the liberals –, 74 percent of Europeans say: The European Union should take action on the refugee issue. At that time, in 2006, Wolfgang Schüssel came back as President of the European Council and proudly announced that he had prevented us from implementing a common asylum policy in Europe. And then legions of ÖVP ministers went to Brussels and further prevented us from implementing a common asylum policy. That's a hell of a thing! That is against the citizens of this continent, and that is against any reason. This is against every reason. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Colleague Strolz...!]] This European Union, if it continues to do so, is dead in a few years. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Why...?]] I'm sure of that. This European Union has become a small-sized expert. It regulates images on Tschick boxes, it regulates our light bulbs, but it is unable to implement a common foreign and security policy – we need it. It is not capable of implementing a common asylum and refugee policy – we need it. It is not capable of implementing a co-ordinated economic policy to reduce youth unemployment, for example – we need it. And, Reinhold Lopatka, for these things, of course, we also need a European government. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's none of the FPÖ!]] We don't need them for the light bulb, we don't need them for the tractor seat either, we need them for these big questions. If we do not jointly organise these major issues on this continent, we will not be able to keep the quality of life, prosperity and security. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Where is the difference to the FPÖ?]] That's why we say: With concrete actions! What about sending 30 000 men and women to the European external border tomorrow? - We have 27 armies. We can immediately command 20 000, 30 000 people, so that it is visible to the citizens as well, at the external border, so that we can, of course, control who comes in, of course, also maintain the chance of a human right of asylum, but so that we can also make visible actions. We can do that if we want! The Social Democrats and the Conservatives do not want that. You don't have the capacity. In all honesty, we also need a new man or a new woman at the head of the European Commission. We need someone who is emotionally stable and can lead this continent. This is not guaranteed, and you simply have to go into change honestly. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I think he hugged the wrong tree yesterday!]] We cannot afford the present state. Of course, we need concepts like Schengen 2.0. If not everyone wants to participate in the rules that we have made up, then we must draw and deepen the circle of those who work together. We need something like a convention. We need a determined move forward. That is why we call for a convention and for us to talk about the future architecture on this continent. I believe that we should do this for the next two years with a comprehensive process, and then we should actually go on voting on this continent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The citizens should decide where we are going together. And if not all 27 are involved, I think this is always better than to continue with 27 Member States as softly as before. It's not going to be okay! That is why we need determination, a clear process with a clear vision forward. Europe needs a soul and a vision and no further herumier than in recent years. This leads us to the European Union, and this would be very, very bad for our generation and especially for the generation of our children. We're in duty here, I think.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10026	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10047	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it has already been made clear by the Federal Chancellor and by the Vice-Chancellor, how the situation in Europe is now and what consequences we are expected to face. My previous speakers have also already said a lot about the way in the UK this dispute has been conducted – stay or not – and have also made it clear that there has been a wide variety of falsehoods and lies that have been spread. It is self-evident when everyone starts rowing back on the same or the next day, and now the rats leave the sinking ship. Whether the consequences for the UK and the workers in this country are as easy to bear as Mr Strache has said today – so almost with artificial panic – I do not know that we will perhaps be able to discuss this better in half a year or a year. I can only say, because of my contact with the trade unions in the UK, that at least the fear of trade unions is very great – Mr Kickl, I can't believe English, you won't believe it – that in connection with the Brexit workers' rights are restricted. [[Abg. Kickl: I didn't know there was that there!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Really?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But that was not the question at all!]] It has also been announced that an initiative to reduce corporate tax has been proposed. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But that was not the question in the call!]] The question of where the money is to come from in order to finance it has also been raised by social systems. Different regulations for workers in the UK, such as working time or holiday provisions, have only been made by EU regulations, and the fear is very great – and justified! – that they may be lost again. I believe that what we need to discuss is the consequences – also in terms of what the European Union has to do differently from in the past. In your statements, I have not heard too much difference from the FPÖ, Mr Strolz, but I would like to tell you where there are already considerable differences. I believe that this is a warning shot, one of the last warnings for the European Union, and something has to change in policy and in the EU's process. [[Call the FPÖ:We don't either!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Strolz, there will still be the speech concept of H.-C. Strache there!]] But it must also be clear that those who believe that we can solve the major problems such as growing unemployment, stagnant economic growth and the refugee crisis alone, on the way to wood. We need European solidarity, but we must work together on the implementation and enforcement of this European solidarity. At present, there are some who are getting the beautiful things they can need, and when they come into the drawing of solidarity, they are seizing. This cannot, however, be the path of a European social Union in solidarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You let her in, and the others have to take her! This is the solidarity of the SPÖ!]] The UK decision has causes, and these are in a failed economic policy, in an austerity policy that divides the continent, which is that today more people than ever before are at risk of poverty and that unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, has taken into account unbearable levels in Europe. The European Union must understand that such a policy, in which everything else is subordinated to the market and competition, is a policy through which Europe is cut apart and there is no room for public investment, a policy in which one considers that all the rules should be abolished as far as possible within the internal market, because then milk and honey will flow, in reality, mean nothing more than the reduction of labour rights of trade unions and workers fought over a hundred years and that this should not happen. This is the policy that people reject, and they will always express it accordingly. The next insanity was to say on the day of the Brexit announcement: Now we are doing CETA, and we are almost waving it at European level, and we are not doing this to the European Parliaments. . I am very much in favour of what Mr Vice-Chancellor said, namely that we are discussing CETA properly and cleanly here, but we must also ensure that not individual elements are put into effect in advance, because that would mean that this is then a blatant discussion, and then we do not need to conduct them anymore. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes! There's nothing left!]] That is why I think it is very important for us here to try to prevent this from happening accordingly. We want a European Union. We stand on the European Union. However, we want a social European Union, which takes the concerns of the workers seriously, a Union in which austerity is stopped, measures against unemployment and does something to ensure that investment can be re-invested and social security is guaranteed and developed, and which ultimately also prevents Marie from landing in Panama and not among people in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10182	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10203	Mr President. High house! We have heard a lot today, unfortunately also very many untruths and lots of panics from the government, unfortunately also from the Federal Chancellor. And now we need to find out...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10219	Mr Klubobmann, you know that you are already moving on the border to a call for order. [[Abg. Kickl: (to ÖVP point out) So please, how often has this been said by this side?]] [[Further calls at Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lugar: So if I speak of falsehoods being spoken here...!]] I have heard the word “untruth. ” I would just like to draw your attention to the next step. You know what terms we don't use anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10270	Mr President. We agreed here in the House that we are not saying “lying ” but“ untruth. ” It is important to me to stress that I have used the term “untruth” in addition because I know that the term “lying” leads to a call for order. So please do not measure me if I already do what has been decided here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10305	Mr Klubobmann, I have only allowed myself to draw your attention to where the borders are. You repeated it, that's all right. I didn't give you a call for order either. So let's leave it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10321	Thank you. Now I'm going to take the proof that what I'm saying is true, namely: Today, Mr Schieder has deliberately said the untruth by claiming that the British pound has been dropped Biblically – the biggest price fall of all time. The proof that this is not the case, I'm going to start right now. I have the chart here – I might keep it up, you see it better –: [[putting a chart in front of the speaker’s desk, on which a course development from 2007 until now can be seen]] [[Rejoicing with Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: 184er!]] If you look at this alleged Bible crash that we are experiencing: In the back, this small crash, that was exactly the crash of the British pound against the euro we have experienced, and if you look at the history of the last ten years, you see very well that the fluctuations we have experienced before are already happening. [[pointing to the price development at the end of the time bar]] There is no way to speak of a Bible crash, nor of a disaster, as is falsely done here again and again. I would really expect this kind of honesty here in the House: that one does not speak of the fact that companies now migrate by mass, because that is not the truth either! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: You didn't see the rating, did you?]] There are companies that have said they may go abroad. But why did they say that? – Of course, they want to exercise pressure in view of the negotiations and the conditions under which they will be played in the future, just as Voest has threatened us – I have not heard from your side – that they will go to the USA with their production if the environmental standards are further attracted here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] That must be classified as what it is: as a threat to have a little substance in the negotiations. The same is true in the UK. Of course, companies do not want suddenly to break down trade relations, of course not. And then the next question on the tapet is: Does that have to be? All those who have spoken today have said that this is a disaster for Great Britain, an insanity, the total decline. [[Abg. Rossmann: What's so great...?- Oh, my God!]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: “Super” is that!]] Taxation is increased, social benefits can no longer be paid. – Look, nothing really has to happen. This is the decision of the European Union. Of course, the European Union can say: You evil boys don't want to be there, now we stand an example on you, now we close, and you can deliver your exports to God where, perhaps to Russia! [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: This is the only way to imagine the little Maxi!]] That might be bad for Britain too, but it doesn't have to be. And that's what we've got in our hands! The question now is whether Mr Juncker, as defiant as he has done in the last few days, wants to go this way, namely to say: We stand an example, we deliberately damage the European Union and Great Britain to show how bad it is if someone leaves! or if he says: We are simply continuing trade relations, as we do with other countries! That would be possible. Did I hear from you today that we keep the damage as small as possible? That's exactly what this is all about! [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: Ah, did a damage come about?]] – You always talk about a damage, not me! You're saying there's a massive damage, and I'm saying, That doesn't have to be. [[Abg. Vetter: The damage that does not exist!]] That's why: Let us continue to maintain economic relations and forget this political union, which has led to the problem! What was voted on was not trade relations, nor economic interdependence, but what the British voted on was this interference, this inconceivable interference of the European Union in internal affairs. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as by Mr Franz and Mr Doppler.]] And here is a good example, namely the refugee problem: The European peoples – and there is enough in our neighborhood, such as Hungary – simply do not want to be prescribed who they have and who do not. This is the European Union's problem: They say: That's what we want, that's our way, that's European – and if you don't want it, you're anti-European, you're destroyers, you want to destroy everything! – That's this nonsense that led us into exactly this alley. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the FPÖ and the Abg. Gerhard Schmid.]] It's not about postulating something you say: We want to open the doors now, every country has to take so many refugees, and we decide because we want to! – Avramopoulos, I believe, the Commissioner for Migration, has raised 17 million; some claim 70 million, but I think it is only 17 million he wants in the European Union. That's what Juncker says – and then we all have to. And then I hear from the union: Solidarity! – Is it solidarity if one decides something and the others have to bear the problems? When I do send people home to invite me to a pronouncing party and say after the fiftieth at the door: If you go to my neighbor, he's supposed to be most solid!, it doesn't work either. That's the problem. That is, if Mrs Merkel – which is why the problem is coming – wants to have 2 million or 3 million refugees, then she should take it, not a problem, but to prescribe it to Hungary or perhaps also to the British, has led us exactly where we are now, and we have to understand that. Now many are probably saying that I am a destroyer and that I want to destroy the European Union. On the contrary! I want to get them, but there's the destroyers back there: [[significant to the government bank]] Those who want to push through this political agreement, this central government with all force, destroy the European Union. The European Union is for me an economic union which is intended to serve a single purpose, namely to maintain peace in Europe. It was founded for that, and that is incredibly valuable. There will be no ten horses to keep emphasizing this. What we want is peace in Europe, and for that we need economic cooperation, but we do not need a central government that passes over the European peoples and then actually produces conflicts at national or national level. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Then we have civil wars in Europe. Do we need that? – We really don't need that! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Is that what Frank says?]] We do not need any wars in Europe, nor civil wars, but what we need is a European Union that is back to its roots, because the roots were not a single government for all Europe, where then all countries are required to think what they have to think, but the idea of origin was economic cooperation, so intensive that it is no longer worth warring against each other. That was the idea, and this economic cooperation works, and it also works with other countries, not only within the European Union. You can expand that. Many say that if the European Union, this integration process, does not make this single government reality, then we can throw the fight against climate change overboard; I have heard this from the Greens today. Let me give you an example: the ozone hole. In 1987 the world community agreed to do something against the ozone hole, and see, it worked. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, it's gone!]] [[Abg. Cashier: Yes, it's away from itself!]] [[Abg. Brunner:... very intensively persecuted!]] However, there was no need for a European Union and no central government in Europe. There the UN was there and there was the will of the national states to do something because it is in the very interest of every individual. This is a model that we can transfer to many levels. [[Abg. Brunner:... useful!]] That is exactly what you know – you have said it yourself, a good example – but you do not want to do so because you simply want to advance this project of slavery to the European peoples. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] But this has never worked in history and is not necessary either. That's why: The peace project is what is incredibly valuable. No one wants a war in Europe, in which I believe we agree, but the question is how we can achieve it. That is enough for an economic union. We do not need a central government that passes over the nation states like a steam roller and tells us what we have to think, what we have to believe and how we have to behave. The peoples of Europe will decide for themselves that we do not need an EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10564	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10586	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Austrian Federal Government, Vice-President Kern and Mr Vice-Chanzler Mitterlehner, for I have rarely experienced a debate at which at the beginning, in the first hour, such a large number of government members were there, which expresses the importance of taking this issue. Secondly, It was rightly pointed out today that in Britain the voting behaviour of the young people and the older ones was completely different and that the young in some ways had taken the future. Therefore, it is our duty and obligation to learn from it, also in Austria to animated the boys, to participate in votes and elections, rather than to complain afterwards that they had been taken away from them something that had installed the future. This will also be the crucial question in the future, because if the young British complain that their future has been taken for them, they must also be asked why they have not gone to such a vote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that this result has triggered a political earthquake in Europe is undisputed; that it is also undisputed; but that, just as it has been formulated several times in the media, it is precisely those who take responsibility that even one remains in the European Parliament, although he has been the leader of the withdrawal movement – to sit on the chair in Europe, is therefore practical – is not all right. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: It is often blamed on Europe: Europe should, Europe has, Europe should, and so on. [[Abg. Kogler: Should be!]] Who is Europe? Are we not also represented in the Commission when provisions are adopted and fixed? Are we not part of Europe? I sometimes experience this in the community: In Upper Austria one shudders at Linz, in Linz one shudders at Vienna, and in Vienna one shudders about Brussels. It's practical, the responsibility is always shifted to the next level, someone's to blame. – This is always practical. And if we really don't know who's to blame in Austria anymore, then at least it's Brussels. - That's a little too little for me. It is true that the British always had a critical relationship with Europe; the British discount was called to mind as a keyword. That's where the old folk wisdom comes to my mind: The first one is the best. – If one had not given in to the British at the time, perhaps some things would have been saved. [[Abg. New builder: That was the Maggie Thatcher!]] - Right, quite right, also Maggie Thatcher. That was the leader who enforced it. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, of course the decision to leave is to be respected. Although I doubt that this would actually be reflected in this result once again if another vote took place today, it would probably be reversed again. The ignitions know what they have done, and they must be kept: There must not be a rosin pick, even under the motto: Now we are negotiating something out again, then we can achieve some things! One more word on the consequences of this withdrawal, which has been the result of the Brexit on agriculture: UK is net payer, €11 billion, the discount has already been deducted. 4,5 billion of them flow back to England to the Section for Agriculture and Rural Development. The exit from the CAP has only negative effects on British farmers, and the effect on Austrian farmers will be limited, as the volume of exports is not of great importance from an agricultural point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, the knowledge is important: We should not believe the sweet song of populists. In the coming months, there will be an intensive discussion on the future of Europe, on the resolution of the economic and refugee crisis, and on new free trade agreements. There are parties in this context who are constantly calling into question the common agricultural policy of the EU. By the way, that's nothing new, that's what we've experienced 20 years ago. It is known that those farmers who believed this populist at the time have paid for it because they have not submitted any applications and therefore have not received a service fee. My message and my request in this context is to believe in Europe, to develop the positive and to strive to change those things that are rightly criticised, to solve the problems quickly, to eliminate unnecessarys and not to allow renationalisation in the CAP, but to enable future-oriented, sustainable development for a stable agricultural budget, but with much less bureaucracy. And again my appeal to young people: Go to the vote! Participate in democratic processes! It is ultimately the future of youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10642	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10663	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with a request for the protection of Austrians. This seems necessary to me in the light of the acts behind me on the government bank, because we have heard in the debate so far that the European Union is losing a very potent net payer with the withdrawal of the British – it is not too many who are active as net payers there. It threatens to lose €5 billion, and I must honestly say, unfortunately, I trust you in the meantime to resort to the Austrians' pockets completely unscrupulously again, in order to stop this hole, or to rise to the insanity idea of perhaps empowering the European Union to levy taxes itself. Both of us want to prevent this proposal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is very important to have said that here too, because much has been said so far, I have not heard any request yet. Now I am telling you something which is very, very bitter to me in this whole debate, especially from the Government Bank: You're going to make a stateman here. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] [[Federal Minister Leichtfried: And what are you doing?]] This is the entire Habitus, the trap: the concerned statesman. In reality, it is precisely this form of better awareness and precisely this form of foresight, which has been punished, among other things, in the UK. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: We now know it! We know better now!]] That's exactly the point. And then you will be excited about those who have taken the flight. [[Interlocutory remark by Federal Minister Leichtfried.]] [[Abg. Kogler:... Demagogen!]] I'm taking up your argument now. I also know refugees in the country. [[Federal Minister Schelling: (on the empty seat of Abg. Stitching) For example!]] Your Mr Spindelegger has fled, your Mr Faymann has fled from the responsibility for the shrapnel he left us in this country, and for the inability to reform this country. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Both of these have run away, and in the enlarged environment of the European Union they have come softly to land. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun]] – So much to those who have fled from your side. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] There is another prominent refugee: Greek Finance Minister Varoufakis, the Darling of the Left. After he first pulled the whole of Europe over the table and then refused to implement the reforms, he set himself on his motorcycle and fled; and since then he has enjoyed seeing guest and super intellectual in any left-wing lecture circles. – So much to those who have fled. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] Now let us ask ourselves a very simple question, because this question is always too little illuminated, but I think it is substantial in the discussion of the problem: Who is this European Union for? To whom does this European Union actually have to serve? [[Interferences by Federal Minister Easily fried and Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] This is actually a very simple question, but it always falls a little under the table, and in answering this question everything decides. Are they the interests of the big corporations, the lobbyists, the banks? [[President Kopf asks Federal Minister Leichtfried and Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner for peace.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Thank you, Mr President.]] Is it the interests of those who want to make profit as easy as possible and as unimpeded as possible? – Yes, if you are of this opinion, then welcome in the Club of Schulz and Juncker, where power and noise have received a strange, unwholesome combination at the expense of the European population, then you belong there! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Or would the European Union not have the task of serving citizens? And these are still the citizens of the Member States, because there is no European citizens in the sense, even if you do not understand them. It is then, as it were, this pomped concept of the people to make a great bow, forgetting that you yourself are defended for a constitution in which it is expressly stated that the right is based on this people. [[Abg. Lopatka: We're called People's Party, if you don't know! We're the People's Party!]] This has to be said again and again, because I sometimes had the impression that a speaker from the European Commission is speaking here today, but not the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If one considers that it is the people who are the citizens to whom the European Union has to serve, then one has to take note of this vote in Great Britain, then one does not have to insult the voters there in a way we are used to by all of you if the results of the elections do not vote and then one does not have to ascend to horror scenarios of apocalyptic proportions which are not sustainable at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] [[Abg. Kogler: The voters do not insult anyone! Demagogen...!]] That's what I'm interested in: The pound is going down. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, how long has the euro been on valley trip because of your lack of economic policy, despite your billion-long rescue packages? It's a valley trip that hasn't happened since yesterday! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] The economy will suffer! – Yes, it may be more difficult, but where is there mass unemployment, where? – In the European Union! [[Federal Minister Schelling: Mr Kickl,... Economy!]] Where is she? Where is there as many unemployed as ever since after the Second World War? This is this European Union, which is now self-glorifying, in a kind of joy of shame, one would like to say almost, and point to the British and say: See how bad you will be! But she forgets the look in the mirror, and you shouldn't do that. This is a very crucial point in this debate, so you don't work honestly either. Then come with explanations: The evil populists have been! There are, of course, only legal populists; Left populists, that's an enning in your thinking world, and I don't know any bigger populists in Austria when Bruno Kreisky was one – I have to hold it – and he certainly wasn't a judge. But it should have been the populists and the promises. May I remind you that there has been a vote on accession to the European Union in Austria, just as there has been a accession to the EEA in the UK. And what was the thing that was opened up to the people at that time? – Populism of the purest variety! [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Everything's going to be cheaper, we've heard, we're saving a thousand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] There will be no more border controls. – Now we have them because you don’t get under control of the problems. The jobs will be increased. – In reality, we have mass unemployment and so on and so on. So that was populism you did there. Don't measure with two measurements! That's unheard of! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] I'm just telling you one thing: Just as you act, and as the relevant representatives of the European Union, in particular, responded after Brexit in these days, one has the feeling that the real landmark of this Union should be the high Ross. The high Ross, you've been acting from there. It would have been a huge opportunity for the European Union to launch a rethinking process, not only to do what you promise after every EU election that is increasingly bad for you from red and black across the continent: Now we need to get closer to the citizens! – After 14 days, everything has been forgotten until you get the next magazine. No, to really think and to do so, that is a crucial point, and above all, to look for the fault not with the British, with the uneducated, with the old and with anyone, but with himself, in this European Union and its institutions themselves, with a Mr. Juncker and other “sympathists” of this European Union, who are truly abandoning the peoples from this union, as they do in all their superiority. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You really didn't listen, did you?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You left out this opportunity, but that would have been the crucial point. Only when this happens will the European Union really become a citizen, then there is a democratic development, then there is also social peace, and there is no level where one pays and the other consumes, because this too is a result of a long, many years of development that is supposed to achieve compensation. – No word of that is true! That's what we're following. [[Interlocutory remark by Federal Minister Leichtfried.]] This is the new Europe, that is the point. We want to promote this positive development, and the withdrawal of the British should have been an initial inflammation for all of you in this direction. That's the point we're about, and we're not going to let you turn the word in your mouth towards any exit options. I'll tell you one thing: This is the more laborious way, it is the more difficult way, but it is the more sustainable way, and it takes people on this journey, and it is precisely this because, as I said at the outset, the European Union should be there. This is our idea of a Europe, of a new Europe. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Are you now for retirement or not?]] What you represent is Europe old.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e10982	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11052	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11074	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear listeners and spectators! Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the topic: The topic is the statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor on the results of the European Council last week. What before the 23rd. Almost nobody believed in June: The British people have spoken and voted in favour of leaving the European Union. This campaign was partly run unprecedentedly, the campaign was conducted on the back of many, scapegoats were sought, for example in the refugee question. Now, if you look at exactly who those who are in England, you can see: These are the migrants from the Commonwealth countries – India, Pakistan, for example – or migrants from the EU – Poland, Ireland; but they are not the refugees on whose back there was politics when this unprecedented campaign for leaving the EU was conducted. That's what I'm saying. Where is Britain now? – It is a divided country: Old against young, the Scottish against the English, the Irish are not satisfied with this result at all. This is the result of the campaign of those who are now making themselves out of the dust Nigel Farage, who now wants to enjoy his life again; [[Abg. Kickl: They even play football against each other, the national teams...!]] Boris Johnson on the other side. And who's to clean up again? – That’s the women again – that’s what’s still noted! After this unprecedented spectacle, which more than shakes Europe, women are now choosing to clean up. [[Abg. Neubauer: Since when is a choice an unprecedented...?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If this call is not understood by the remaining 27 Member States, then we cannot really be helped. The wake-up call must be: more Europe, more to the citizens. The principle of subsidiarity, this restricted concept, must be met with life. [[Abg. Kickl: We've been listening for 20 years!]] What does that mean? Do we need the Allergen Regulation? Do we need the light bulb regulation? Does anyone have to tell us how the milk that's going to be drunk on the alm needs to look? - We don't need all of that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Call the FPÖ:But everywhere you lift your hand!]] We need more competence for the countries, of course. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Hübner]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What else do we need on the other hand? – Of course, we need to get closer to people, we need a more Europe, a more social union, Mr Neubauer! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Blablabla!]] We need more investment for jobs. [[Abg. New builder: Where are they? For ten years, we've heard that!]] Of course we need that! The decision taken yesterday that the national parliaments will vote in favour of the CETA decision is already an important sign that Malmström is not right when it says that this is not a mixed agreement. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah so, and that's true now?- Oh, my God!]] National parliaments are now able to talk – an important step has been taken in the right direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] With all the criticism of Europe and the question of how Europe should make itself: Let us not forget their really important function! When the EU, as the Council of Europe, when the various international organizations were founded here on this continent, this happened on the ruins of two world wars. Let us not forget this: the First and Second World Wars, battlefields, millions of dead people that Europe was experiencing! One of the most warlike continents has become what we now find: no wars, a peace union, a Europe that builds on human rights, which takes the European Convention on Human Rights seriously. We must continue to work on this: a social peace union for people, for all of us. In this sense: Let's build on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11217	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11238	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate can not only be about Brexit, nor can it be about the subjugation of voters, which is so not taking place, after the referendum in the United Kingdom. But it is already about what has happened there and what is now the consequences, there as in the Union. This means that we are with the Union: This is also a question of what Union policy has been done in recent years and decades and how it should be, perhaps or actually, different. Thirdly, it is also about the role of Austria. Now in a row and starting with Austria: So in this example, which I will address once again, perhaps more drastic than the previous speakers, as far as Brexit is concerned, the criticism of the Union, the Union's institutions, the Union's approach and, above all, the Union's policy of content – which I think is now tending to go in the wrong direction rather than in the right direction – must be clear: We need international communities, especially on the European continent – that is what we must say soon, for a while again, for a few decades – and that is what we need. And if there was no communion, something common for Europe, even institutional, then one would have to invent it – so that would be to improve what is there. That's why one thing is clear: Nothing öxit! Because You just turned away like this: [[towards FPÖ]] Nothing öxit! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS representatives.]] Other: Come on. You're going down and explain that! Explain that! There are probably some parallels to the events in the United Kingdom, in the United Kingdom, as we would have imagined. It is precisely not a question of not accepting what has been voted on there – quite the contrary! It is precisely those who have ignited the hut, who now leave it behind and do not want to negotiate, because they do not only have a plan, because they do not even have an orientation, but only the white helplessness that actually leads to total responsibility. And this is the picture that was drawn here. In fact, one would like to think of a Shakespeare drama, but it is, unfortunately, the reality, not because a democratic decision has taken place. – Yes, it must be possible to leave! This alone is not the problem, but, as has been done, with such arguments and without preparation, and what remains. That is why, I believe, you can only agree with what you said. You have expressed it very noblely, and you are well aware of it; so I have really been able to listen to what has been referred to here for a long time. [[towards the government bank]] But you can say it more clearly, and perhaps this is more marked from the speaker's desk, a meter before the government bank: It's not just anyone who's sneaking around right now. These are not only – it has been quoted – the upper rats who leave the ship after it has leaked. [[Abg. Lugar: So from rats...!]] – That was a quote, that has already been brought here. [[Abg. Kickl:... also already calls for order...!]] From my point of view, the true picture is still that with the burners. It is true in democracy – the role of the media has rightly been mentioned by Clubobfrau Glavischnig – that the fourth pillar often does not work as well as one would expect, but the consequences must now all be borne. It has worked on such argumentation and also on hetze – xenophobia has also played a massive role there, that is not so, that has gone to the mobbing of children, the children of Poland or others, although Great Britain, that is even the absurd, from which labour migration from Poland has at first benefited economically massively; but on that we are still talking. The reason for people's being so naughty is that the profits of a common economy are being distributed very slantly; that's the problem. First of all, to the picture: In this argumentation chain, the white arsonists are on the way. They have already been seen walking around with the petrol canister and pouring in everywhere that lighters took. Then there was a short break, because by the way, this hysterization and hecticism in the UK also led to a political murder. Everyone believed that it might not be that bad – me, too. But then it happened, because the firewoods have been thrown – and fly! And now it comes: Now they're gone, the others have to clear the fire – I'm very much for it – but they're gone! The scene is still there, the picture: That's where the Bude burns, and next to it they run away. I would have liked to know what the plan of these Öxit advocates is, who no longer trust this; they always refer only to Switzerland, without saying what economic and historical differences there are. So none of that is to be kept, that is also to be rejected because of tediousness. I would call for another responsibility. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But you still have to look at what happened. I therefore agree, and I say this quite openly, with two prior speakers on the question of the need to make a clear statement, and we have always done so: The European question, the common Europe, is not to be equated with – that is, its own kind of demagogy – what the Union is institutionally making up, and not at all with its policy. That's not the same! Besides, I can calm you down: We were not in favour of abolishing Austria just because of the rule of black and blue for seven years. We weren't! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] You have to try something else if you want something else, it is in democracy. [[Abg. Kickl: You also tried something else – at the beginning!]] This also applies to the EU. Firstly, we are always concerned about how we construct this common building of the European Union, and then we are still asking who is doing what policy. In democracy, it is the same, and it must always be better for the left, the Greens and anyone else to be able to move people to move in this direction, both in the national states, because there are also parliaments and the governments that take part in the Council, as well as in the elections to the European Parliament. This is in itself a normal process, and you simply have to separate it. In this respect, I am right to argue that there is a big difference in how a policy in Europe works out. There is therefore no way of wiping away any criticism of the Union. You also have to look at the situation in the UK. I already suggested this: Many are also on the side of the losers, although there was actually a gain there for decades. You can't be surprised! Not that I would share this view, but one should raise so much understanding and see exactly who is more vulnerable to these arson arguments than others. That is the question, and this is why this result must be an order to make a different economic policy, social policy and, by the way, ecologically sustainable policy in Europe – as far as possible, on a democratic basis, so that it can also be accepted and better driven forward. These are the tasks. If it is so now – and since we jump from Great Britain to Continental Europe, they will now not block us so much thanks to God, the floating extra sausage drifts away a little, that should not stop us now – then we now have to go through it, even though those who have organized it now want to leave as much time as possible. At the same time, however, Europe itself must be the consequence of seeing where the classical weaknesses are. It must be there, and that has always been said, almost Sunday-like, much more. It leads to the next disaster, if it is not possible to reduce youth unemployment in the classic – and it must soon be called – countries: in Spain, in part in Italy, especially in Greece. These are already several generations of young people who are lost there. Where's that supposed to end? If you simply stick to the current economic policy line, you must not be surprised if the project is constantly at risk of Europe within the meaning of a Union. There are the arsonists, but this European Union building also has a very high potential for self-inflammation without the arsons, because the wrong lattices are constantly being nailed somewhere – partly because of ideological boredom. I have heard a sentence spoken by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, namely, if I can properly reflect it: Obviously, the ideologists – my addition: the false ideologists, perhaps even persuasive perpetrators, are supposed to be authorised by the European Union. That is why we need to promote a change of direction in the policies of the European Union, and this must lead towards economic sense, social justice and environmental sustainability, which, moreover, still has many economic opportunities to offer. If one draws attention to the great question of peace project, which is rightly always referred to, but which does not take the boys into account today, then we can refer to a tragic event that I have still experienced – I am already at the end, Mr President – when there is a clear benefit of the Union in this regard, then it shows itself to the Balkan countries: [[President Head gives the bell sign]] If the Union had been there 20 or 30 years ago, in the best sense of the word, we would not have had a hundred thousand dead in front of our own door. We wouldn't have had them! Everything failed! The biggest shame on the continent after 1945 is Srebrenica, and the Union would have prevented that. So stop your constant Europe bashing! [[towards FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11377	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11398	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Mr Kickl has delivered his EU Councils and left. That reminds me a little of Great Britain, which was about the same. [[Abg. Brosz:... patriotic!]] Ladies and gentlemen! He claims that the European Union would not have brought us anything. I would like to be very clear about this. What has the European Union brought us? – An increase in real GDP in Austria by 0.9 percent per year, which is cumulatively €63 billion. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: rising unemployment!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] The creation of some 18 500 jobs per year, which has been 480 000 jobs since our accession to the European Union. We also have a lower inflation rate. We have a level of income of €7 000 for each Austrian than without EU integration. Ladies and gentlemen, I think these figures speak a clear language. And if Mr Kickl sees the high horse as the EU's coat of arms, I have to say: The coat of arms of the FPÖ is the blind slugs, because you don't want to see it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scherak.]] I would like to introduce another facet here. The origin of the EU was the promotion of economic cooperation after the Second World War. The idea behind this was that people who work with each other, who trade, prevent economic deterioration, war-related conflicts. [[Abg. Hübner: First heard 19 times!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Already heard!]] Against this background, the EEC was founded in 1958. Ladies and gentlemen, remember that today we have been living in peace and freedom in Europe for 70 years, that the younger generation can no longer imagine a European Union with borders, with border controls, and that the euro is today a currency that is valid throughout Europe! Another sentence on the euro: Today, the euro is better off with the dollar than at the time when it was introduced, which is also complementary to economic competence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Abg. New builder: Despite the EU!]] At the same time, however, it is also quite clear: Of course, we need to take the concerns of EU citizens seriously. However, if the EU's opponents want to rule, then the citizens and the country, ladies and gentlemen, will lose! If we look at the processes in England in the process, then it was the same. The reasoning of the beginners was characterized by fear and anxiety, half-truths, little expertise and many, many empty promises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It is no wonder that people have come into these many empty promises – in good German – in part. The leaders of this exit movement are no longer there – Mr Kickl is not there either to make a small comparison there. [[Rejoicing with members of the Federal Government.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The ticks, ladies and gentlemen, pay, however, especially the young people. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: There the young people should have stopped voting!]] That's why I'm back with Jacob. AuerYou have to have a voice and they have to use this voice, because it is going to be – and especially in the UK this is regrettable – many jobs are literally going over the channel. This is a problem that Britain has today. Great Britain is a divided country – between young and old, between cities and rural areas, between Scotland and England. When a country is divided, the problems also grow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] In my opinion, it is therefore important that we take our work mandate seriously here, that we strengthen the EU community very clearly, that the image of the European Union is re-polated and that we explain the benefits precisely in Austria. [[Call the FPÖ: How?]] We need a little more optimism and action to look into the future. When we talk about the economy, we also need to talk about CETA, and therefore, Mr Vice-Chancellor, thank you very much for making the CETA Agreement a mixed agreement, because that is important. This will enable us to deal with this in Parliament too. Whoever is for the economy and who is for Europe must also talk about that we are in a competition between the continents and not in a competition of the small regions, and therefore we should also pay close attention to this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser]] I would like to end with a quote from Helmut Kohl: "There is no responsible alternative to the policy of European integration. If we want to ensure peace, freedom, security and prosperity for all citizens of our continent in the long term, it remains our duty to stand up with commitment and optimism for the construction of the House of Europe." [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Ha, ha!]] “For Europe – and this is especially true of the young generation – is our future!” There's nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11589	Mr Hable came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11611	Mr President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear citizens! Europe after the Brexit referendum is the subject. What do we learn from this referendum? - First of all: Surveys are to be enjoyed with caution. You go to bed with Exit Polls, who predict a tight victory of the “remain” camp, and wake up with Brexit again. [[Abg. New builder: Yes!]] What else do we learn from this referendum? – People's elections must have been learned. It's been lied that the beams are bending. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] The subject matter has remained on the track. How to do it, how to do it, Switzerland shows: There is no referendum without a vote book in which all the facts, all the figures in it, all opinions with which everyone can make an objective picture of the question to be voted on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] That should have been the way – unfortunately, he was not. What are the consequences of this referendum? – In any case: Even if the “remain” camp had won, therefore, almost a majority would have reached, that would not have been a solution, because then this February deal, which was negotiated between Cameron and the other Heads of Government, would have been carried out. This would also mean that for the first time a Member State - officially confirmed and agreed - can adopt the objective of the ‘ever closer union’ of the common political union. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A Europe of two speeds is not a problem, that is all right, but a Europe that is driving in two different directions cannot work. That couldn't have happened. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The Brexit, as many disadvantages it brings to Europe and, of course, to Britain, nevertheless also means an opportunity, because in every crisis there is also a chance. It's clear, the time of suffocation is over. It is clear that Europe is facing a throwaway. The crucial question is: Europe, how do you deal with the political union? We must ask ourselves what our idea of a common Europe is. What is our idea of the future, what is our vision? I also asked the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Foreign Minister of the Committee, and the answers I received were as follows: Foreign Minister Kurz says he doesn't believe in visions. Chancellor Kern says he does not want to be active at the level of visions, but at the level of solutions he wants to work there. – Yes, well, to work, that’s all right, but in what direction, with what goal? I expect political leaders across Europe to show themselves what their own task is to show leadership. Leadership is one of the things to develop a vision – and if this word is too pathetic for you to say the goal. You need to develop this goal, and you have to arouse enthusiasm for it in the country, for the citizens, otherwise it will not work. Chancellor Kern has also mentioned that you can simply continue to work, for example, to solve the problem of youth unemployment in Europe, because you have to be honest and say: To this end, the European Union has neither competence nor instruments. If the Union is required to eliminate youth unemployment – without institutional frameworks, without competences – it is only another contribution to the failure of Europe. To Klubobmann Lopatka, he too is no longer in the hall, I would like to say in total: I can almost no longer see any difference between his statements and those of the FPÖ, apparently there is no difference anymore. [[Call the ÖVP: Weakness!]] The European Party of the European People's Party (EFTA) has apparently adopted its position. In any case, he's wrong when he says: We need to keep working. It is to be forgotten that the Union, with the euro, the single currency, has already taken significant integration steps with the single market – integration steps that require a political Union. It does not work out a common currency without a political union. The freedom to travel, live and live wherever you want does not work without political union. If this political Union is not completed if it is not brought to an end, then the euro will be broken, then the internal market will be broken, then this common Europe will be broken – and that is why we need leadership. It's too little to work on, we need political leadership. The vision of those who want to destroy this Europe is clear. This is what we hear from Le Pen, we hear from the FPÖ, from UKIP: They want to get out of this Europe. They want this Europe of the Fatherlands. They want to go into the past. They're trying to get the boundaries back up. - That's not my idea. This is not the idea of NEOS of a united, common Europe. We are in favour of this political union. We want to complete this house still under construction. We want to give Europe the skills it needs, namely foreign policy, common defence policy and financial and monetary policy. That is what we want, and we are willing to fight for this common Europe, so that we can secure this freedom, this prosperity and the peace that we have built up over the last 60 years and pass on to our children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11680	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11702	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Great Britain is anything but a simple partner within the European Union. As early as the 1980s, the so-called British Discount was enforced. As a result, the British EU scepticism expressed itself, for example, in the rejection of the Schengen Agreements and the euro as well as in opt-out rules on justice and home affairs. Nevertheless, it is a pity that Britain is adopting itself from the European Union. Klubobmann Lopatka has already addressed the related disadvantages for the European Union, with some analysts taking the view that the EU's exit from the United Kingdom would make the Community more homogeneous and make the rest of the Member States closer together. The “healing shock” addressed by Landeshützenhofer would be very desirable to all of us. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the supporters of Brexit have, among other things, claimed that an EU exit of the UK economy would do well to paralyze it by the Brussels regulatory will. This is remarkable in that, despite being a member of the European Union, the UK economy is one of the least regulated in the world, as OECD data show. Most of the benefits of EU membership, such as the free internal market, have been covered by the Brexit supporters. The initial reactions to the results of the British vote on several occasions are therefore not surprising. The pound has fallen dramatically – whether the clubman Lugar wants to come true or not. The creditworthiness of the United Kingdom is down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The stock exchange values of British companies are on the decline. The mood of the British companies has significantly deteriorated. According to recent surveys, 49 percent of companies are looking at the general economic outlook for the next twelve months pessimistic. Before the referendum, only 25 percent expressed this view. 26 percent see black for their own business prospects, significantly more than 16 percent before the referendum. A start to a better economic future may look different. Significant for the anything other than rosy situation in the UK is that the responsible for the Brexit has made themselves out of the dust. The rest of the population remains insecure, and there are also insured Austrians who work in the UK as entrepreneurs or employees. The 500 to 600 students, who study in the UK every year on the basis of the EU Erasmus programme, remain still. Whether this possibility will continue in the future depends on the negotiations between Brussels and London. [[Call the SPÖ: A madness!]] The uncertainties raised result from the imminent loss of the EU's achievements. Even if there is always legitimate criticism of the EU and much is worthy of improvement, the EU-related achievements are not to be neglected – quite the contrary! Consider Austria: Like no other country in Europe, Austria has used its opportunities as an EU member and has benefited from more stability, economic power and jobs; Mr Haubner has already done this in detail. In order for Austria to be able to make better use of its opportunities as part of Europe in the future, we need to work constructively towards the further development of Europe. In view of the challenges facing Europe, we have no time to lose. However, we do not need to reinvent Europe but simply make it better. I believe that a better Europe is a strong Europe in the world, a democratic Europe, a responsible Europe and a secure Europe. We must act quickly and decidically on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11741	Next, Mrs. Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11763	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are in a very exciting time, at a time when history is written. We are in the process of making history ourselves: Will we as the European Union succeed in learning from the crisis, developing us, getting closer to citizens, or will the European Union fail? – The latter is also possible. If the vote is now being criticised, well, the vote is bad, or those who have broken the vote are the guilty, because the UK is going to say goodbye to the European Union, then I think that this approach is very, very cheap, because if the citizens were satisfied with the European Union, they would not have these problems or would they have the feeling that the European Union is able to solve big problems, then nobody would have voted in favour of Brexit. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is the easy way to shift all responsibility to the leaders. The serious way, ladies and gentlemen, would be to deal closely with the European Union and the state of this Union. There are reasons why the UK voted for the withdrawal. One of them was that the standard of living for many in recent years has become worse from year to year. Our Federal Chancellor also said: In the last five years, we have had a real wage loss in Austria. That is one of the reasons why people are not satisfied with this system. The British have not understood that, for example, fishermen have received money to destroy their boats and on the other hand have continued to fish other nations in British waters. People have not understood why this wave of migration is not getting under control, why the European Union is unable to finally secure its external borders, to tackle a credible problem and also to solve a credible problem. What people certainly didn't understand was the arrogance and abjectness with which European representatives constantly explained to us: You know what we need, what we need as a little people. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] But the problem is not limited to the UK alone. We were in Greece some time ago, we have seen the humanitarian disaster there. This is a state that is only moving sideways, because the whole money that comes there is going back into the banking economy, and people have no perspective, have no future prospects. If 60 percent of young people don't have a job, ladies and gentlemen, and that at a training rate where 50 percent academics are, then this must be a wake-up call for the European Union, then it must be quite clear that the wake-up call must finally see that the younger generations have a chance and that not only the banks, not just the large corporations, benefit from this EU. [[Complementary of the Abg. Donate.]] The issue of tax increase has already been addressed today. Britain has now made a tax increase. What is the situation in Greece? – In Greece, taxes are so high that the former Minister of Economic Affairs, who runs a law firm, told us: If he has 100 000 € in the next year, then he will stay zero Euro – zero! He even has to pay €243, because everything the state takes. That too is the EU. But we do not want the European Union in this form. There is a great need for reform, and we need to discuss it. That is the point where we cannot make it easy. Ladies and gentlemen! The reaction of the representatives in Brussels, first of all by Mr Juncker, who spoke in the first great empathy about what is happening now, once again meant: Well, CETA, we're going through this, and we don't need to ask Parliament! [[Abg. Small:... Content of the Agreement!]] This shows how far away from the people responsible there are. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we will have to deal seriously with CETA, because if we allow large corporations to have such a power that they can sue states by billions, then that is something we must not allow. [[Abg. Little: That's not true!]] I quote Bruno Simma from the International Arbitration Court in Germany. It is used by the World Bank for such specific arbitration courts, and he has said that free trade agreements are, of course, possible without arbitration courts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] Then we'll talk about alternatives before we take this risk for a whole state! Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has a great past. If it is to have a great future, then we need to be seriously reformed, then we have to get closer to the citizen, then we have to send the best minds to Brussels and not those who are to be postponed because we have no use for them in Austria or in the other countries. We must send out the best minds and we must see that we are reforming the European Union and making it closer to citizens so that it has a future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11839	Mrs Dr. Little. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11860	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Brexit is and must be a signal to the European Union. But whoever rejects the European Union also refuses global reality, because our share of the world population will decline dramatically, the social product will also fall, and as a single country we would go into the pointless field of promille. And all those who suggest that one could restore the so-called healing world before accession to the EU, lie about the citizens. As regards the so-called "heal world" before accession to the EU: How were we seen? – Our management companies were state grant firms [[Abg. Steinbichler: Go! Go! For 20 years...!]] We were perceived as a small, tourist mountain people and at the edge of the eastern block. [[Abg. Krainer: Is that in line with...?]] - Let's take care of it again? Since Maastricht and since our accession to the EU, the world has really changed: the economic rise in China, the networking of society, the financial markets and the economy, the rapid technological developments outside the European Union, especially in the IT sector, but also the crisis spots from Ukraine to Syria. All these issues should actually make European states more united and able to tackle them. That should be the motto. But these jubilation messages, which came shortly after the referendum, can only be classified in the category “to replace the spiritual wind silence with operational hustle and bustle”. Because what does Brexit mean in clear text? – For Britain, it means that a generation of 65 plus has decided on the future of youth, that the gap between London, Scotland and Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK is increasing and that economic performance is reduced by 15 percent. For the European Union, we are losing the second largest economy, the number of inhabitants is falling from 508 million to 444 million. Great Britain was also a good counter-policy to the rule-making of France. What does that mean for the export country of Austria? – This means that we can only maintain the high social rate and our prosperity with our 60 percent export rate. The economic cooling and depreciation of the pound naturally reduce our export potential. That means to us now: We need to work even more towards the attractiveness of the economic location. I would like to thank you very much for the current site package, because we need to be more competitive in order to open up new markets. In this respect, it is also positive to note that CETA is now a mixed agreement, because I think we will urgently need it. We will and we must develop our European Union in such a way that it focuses on the major areas of the subject, reduces the infatuation of details and over-regulation, guarantees ever-increasing peace and integrates itself in the hearts of European citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11910	Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e11931	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mrs. Minzig! Yes, with your speech you have once again echoed the previous speeches of the representatives of the government groups and the members of the government who seem to be confusing that they are not a propaganda branch of the European Union or the Commission, but a part of the Austrian People's Office. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not need to constantly agree and presuppose that the European Union is the only and the best if we have no arguments, no reasons to do so. And as far as the reasons are concerned, you always hear the same thing. One hears: Well, without the European Union, there would probably be a war – peace work. Second: Well, we're too small. The third thing: Without the European Union, things would be much worse. And the latter, of course, is the most important killer argument: The European Union is an alternative. Anything else that does not move on this line of reasoning is then populism or – a new word creation – arson. This is where all four Eurofanatian parties agree. So these are arsonists who are pleading for not staying in this Union. A quick look: What has the Union brought about on the most important issues for which it is present? What has caused it to do in economic policy? We have been trapped in the biggest crisis in Europe since 2008, in a stagnation, and no economic block or economic area in the world has handled this crisis worse than the European Union and the European Union. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] The eurozone is a complete failure. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true! ... wrong!]] At least four countries in Europe are in a state of devastating stagnation. These four countries, as well as the rest of Europe, are experiencing a permanent reduction in real income and a breakdown of social gaps. Greece has been mentioned, but the situation is similar in Portugal, Spain and much of Italy. These countries are solely due to the euro – I say, exclusively due to the euro – in a crisis which they find insoluble. But let us consider further areas: What has the EU done for the outside? . So the illegal situation of immigration has not been improved, resolved or facilitated by the European Union, but has been made more difficult. The only reasonable solutions have been taken by individual states against the will of the European Union. Some of these include Austria, but above all Hungary. If you look at the big foreign policy, you see Russia: We went into the traps of a foreign, a non-European power and carried a sanctions policy against our own and against European interests, which is seriously damaging to us. In order for at least something positive to come out so that we can give a positive impetus to one thing in the European Union, I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12008	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12110	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12132	Mr President. High house! The prestigious conservative magazine “The Economist” writes and headlines in its recent issue: [[Keeping the magazine “The Economist” entitled “Anarchy in the UK” high]] ‘Anarchy in Great Britain’. I continue to translate from the editorial: The UK is experiencing a first taste of life without leaders and split up after it has left Europe. – citations; a very readable edition by the way. This anarchy is the result when right-wing populist hetzers and ignitions such as Nigel Farage or Boris Johnson are at work. And then, when it is so far, when the Brexit is actually there, they steal from the responsibility, provided that these gentlemen know at all what responsibility is. Clearly, responsibility for them is a foreign word. And when I look into the ranks of the ÖVP here, I see that Kickl and Strache are obviously already on the run from responsibility. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Absolutely! Get out of here!]] There's no one there. Where are they? [[Abg. Tamandl: We are the ÖVP!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Mrs. Glawischnig is not here either!]] With the Brexit, say many commentators, the European idea has suffered. - Yeah, that's right. But they forget, of course, that the neoliberal ideology of the European idea has done very serious damage for years – for years. The political elites of Europe took over this ideology and, in part, forced skrupellos – for example Greece – a policy that has made a decisive contribution to Brexit; I do not say exclusively, but I say decisively. Let's start at the beginning: The common market, the single market, which was at the centre of this policy, has opened the door to globalisation. This is basically not bad and it is also right. But, of course, this globalisation has also brought about globalisation losers, and against these globalisation losers the political elites have done nothing. You said: That is the task of the national states, and they have, by the way, taken care of monetary union, the economic union and then later on, the banking union. But a social Union was just as little of a concern to them as to the fair distribution of income and assets, the fight against unemployment or even the fight against tax relief, tax dumping or the closure of tax havens. In addition, since the responsibility for compensation had now been left to the national states, the national states could not handle it at all because they had been hand bound by a policy of extermination – very sharply by the way – since 2010. This austerity policy has once again heightened the misery of the losers of globalisation – through cuts in social benefits and the like. This saving rate in Europe has then led to a permanent stagnation, to an increase in unemployment, and in turn it was the losers of globalisation who were primarily affected by this policy of the European Union. It is no wonder, therefore, that people in the European Union are turning away from these institutions and political elites and that the right-wing populist hetzers and the ignitions are on the glue. When we look at election analyses in the UK, what do we see? – Then we see that regions in which workers and the lower middle class live voted in favour of Brexit. Where incomes are high, in London, the City of London, the heart of the financial centre, was voted for to stay in the European Union. And who will be the losers of this Brexit? – It is precisely those who voted in favour of leaving the European Union – which seems to be paradoxical, but it is – and not those who work in the City of London, the centre of the Financial Center. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Well, they're gonna look pretty! Why is the English Minister of Finance now making an announcement by saying: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] Do we reduce corporate taxes from 20 to 10 percent to keep companies in the country that are now announced to migrate? – This is a clear indication, and it is not a coincidence why it is. Another point is that austerity policy was also accompanied by structural reforms. And structural reforms always mean: Man must be flexible. Let's translate this: Dear workers! You must be flexible and you must be happy if your wages are falling! You must be happy if you can get fired faster! You must be happy if your unemployment insurance benefits are lower! The political elites in Europe had nothing but a permanent sense to blame on the unproductive social state they always wanted to push back. Of course, these structural reforms affect the losers of globalisation. If we want to save the European project, we must therefore take care of these losers of globalisation in Europe. We must put these losers of globalisation at the centre of policy. How can this happen? – This can be done by drawing up an action plan which may have the following points: first, a reduction in this austerity policy in favour of a sustainable growth policy with a view to job creation; second action: The end of the structural reforms, which have been exclusively due to the loss of globalisation; third, the creation of a social union capable of offsetting the loss of income and the loss of jobs of the losers of globalisation. Then the question arises: Can Europe afford this? – Yes, of course Europe can afford that! 1 000 billion € annually, the European Union is losing through tax evasion, tax avoidance, tax fraud. We need answers in order to end this tax fraud and this tax flight – with a credible policy, by the way. The credibility is that we do not need a policy of constant watering and the lazy compromises that we are constantly observing in the tax field. If we succeed, we will take a big step forward. Then we will also succeed in stabilising this important project in Europe and not increasing the misery of the losers of globalisation and thus also the danger of the British following other countries and also of conducting popular elections towards a departure from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12218	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Vavrik. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12239	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Dear citizens! After this relatively surprising vote by the British to leave the EU, the question arises: Do what? What should be our attitude towards the United Kingdom? What about the EU and Europe in general? I think it is legitimate to look at the consequences for the UK itself. It is a fact that the consequences for Britain are devastating within a very short time. Several of my previous speakers have shown it, I don't need to repeat it. It is even worse, however, that the United Kingdom is threatening to break, because both Scotland and Northern Ireland have made it clear that they prefer to leave the Kingdom rather than leave the Union. In the case of Northern Ireland, it could even lead to the resurgence of the civil war. In the United Kingdom, there is a cataract, even among many Brexit voters who have agreed to protest and are now regretting this decision. But especially in view of the chaos in which Britain is located, should We are responding wisely and not being tempted to punish the UK, so to speak, to stand an example in order to prevent other countries from also organizing a referendum. Yes, the British have broken another crisis from the fence, but a revanche-foul is not appropriate. For the first time, Britain is being punished enough, we have already mentioned that. Secondly, it cannot be in Europe's interest to see Europe's second largest economy, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, sink into political chaos and recession. Great Britain is part of Europe. You can see it from the French coast, it will not drift somewhere in the North Atlantic. Millions of EU citizens live in the UK, and millions of subjects of your Majesty also live on the continent. I think that the UK can also play a role outside the EU in the prosperity and security of Europe. Also outside the EU, the UK will continue to contribute, defend and promote European values worldwide. The goal must therefore be to achieve a fair, constructive process of separation in the good. At the same time, however, we should bear in mind that not for years the whole energy of the EU will be absorbed from the processing of Brexit, that we will not be held hostage by, so to speak, never-ending negotiations on the re-establishment of Britain's relationship with the EU. It is particularly important to ensure that, despite the vote for the withdrawal, the UK is not trying to get through with it. The signs of such an approach are already increasing. First of all, it was the surprising reaction of Cameron not to make the application for withdrawal, but to postpone it on September. This happened, of course, in the hope that a change of mind might arise and that perhaps a second referendum could be organized on the detour of new elections de facto. Several millions of British people have already signed relatively spontaneously for the holding of a second referendum. We must not forget that a majority of Members voted in the House of Commons and that the referendum is not legally binding. However, in my opinion, a disregard for the referendum would be very worrying and very bad for the EU. It would be the worst of all options that Great Britain is constantly inside and out with a foot. The exodus of Britain is not an accident. The referendum did not result from temporary dissatisfaction, not from economic and social dissatisfaction, not from fear of international migration or wave of immigration, but from the logical consequence of 40 years of misunderstandings. The basic misunderstanding was that the UK believed that the EU remains a turbo-charged free trade area. – The opposite has occurred, the political project has developed. Conversely, the other Member States believed that in time, Britain would learn to love the EU. - That didn't happen. It remained with a 43-year engagement. Marriage has never been performed, and now it is time to resolve this engagement. I think three things are very important as a guide to the government: It is necessary to establish a timely start to the negotiation of the procedures for separation. A delay until September is okay, but not beyond, otherwise we will open the door for another move and then de facto for re-connecting to the February negotiations which we considered to be completed. Negotiations must not be opened until the application is made, because that would also be fatal. Thus, the Kingdom would be able to: It is not a question of having de facto to continue to negotiate, and then it is not fish or meat, and that is the worst of all solutions. Most importantly, the continued fate of the United Kingdom cannot be the focus of the EU. The EU must focus on solving urgent problems, on priorities that the Federal Chancellor has also mentioned. This means that in ten years' time, Brexit is not considered as the beginning of the EU's decay, but as the starting point for a renewal in history, so that the UK is making a request for resumption until then. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12309	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12330	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda in today's debate was, in my opinion, a lot of talk, but very little new, and hardly any proposals for solutions have been presented. I think we all agree that there must be changes and solutions regarding the EU. Unfortunately today, however, I do not believe that I have made any concrete proposals by Vice-Chancellors and chancellors. They have remained guilty of these solutions. It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers that there has also been panic on the part of the government. The government accuses the opposition parties, the right-wing populist parties of panic and does it itself. We have heard a lot about the whole economic disparity, the financial disparity et cetera. The location always determines the position, and depending on which side you see something, it will be presented accordingly. The rest of the citizens and the citizens who pursue this debate and then no longer recognize what is actually true and what is not. Dissatisfaction with the EU is very great. We can hear again and again about the withdrawn EU leadership. Of course we are all the EU, we are members of the EU. But we're not all right there. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, our local representatives often do not represent us, the Austrian people, and above all what citizens want in the EU as they should. The chancellors and vice chancellors have held more general points and nothing special in their statement today. Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner has to be helped by the fact that he said that – he said that in an interview after the Brexit –: ‘Europe needs to re-establish itself as quickly as possible.’ – We are safe on his side, and he is right with that. Only this is just a bottle, these are just keywords that don't have much to do with. Otherwise, it already looks like Chancellor Kern. He doesn't like to have a discussion at all. You can't even discuss something, a referendum is not thought of at all. It should not, if possible, be discussed. It is also amazing – and that will be, I think, also for the seers and At the same time be amazing, especially for the still existing SPÖ voters – that the new chancellor no longer adheres to the given line of Faymann and Gusenbauer or no longer sees himself committed to this line. In fact, it does not want to allow a referendum in Austria on future changes to the EU Treaties. He said that recently in an interview. On the one hand, therefore, a new style is being preached, a new path with more citizen involvement – we must open up more we have to pick up the citizens – and on the other hand we say: No, I do not want to vote in favour of future amendments to the EU Treaties in Austria and I no longer feel bound to the line of Gusenbauer and Faymann that has been set up so far. – This must also be said here and should not remain unmentioned. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] What is unfortunately to be criticised in the EU is the failure in the refugee crisis. That's clearly on the table. You can't discuss this away, even if you're still trying so hard. What else is coming from the EU? – A abolition of the cash is remembered. The glass citizen is remembered. The disarming of society, the right-wing citizen is remembered. All of this is deterioration. In this way the citizens are urged, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, many of them cannot be liked. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would also like to address the EU Arms Directive, which has been under discussion for some time and is under negotiation. There's so much wrong in there – in order not to get a call for order – that there would be the framework here to do everything. I shall certainly do this in the context of another debate. However, I would like to quote Dr. Jürgen Siegert, who recently wrote an open letter to all Austrian MEPs. Dr. Siegert – for all those who do not know – was responsible for the arms law for many years in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, also worked there as a lawyer and weapons expert and was involved significantly. In this open letter – I quote – it reads: "In line with the particularly worrying referendum in Great Britain, it is emotionally particularly dangerous to burden people with rules "from above", which are not understood by the people because logic and the need cannot be recognized. It would be extremely damaging for the unity of Europe if, without apparent reason, large groups of people – the owners of legal weapons and their families are certainly more than 1⁄2 million Austrians! – would be sustainablely annoyed.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that should give you some thought. This is also symptomatic of what is going wrong in the EU: From the top, something is meant without thinking about it carefully, without teaching experts, just to buy and to prescribe something to the powerful citizens. In this case, they shall be disarmed and reproved. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I do not want to mention in this respect what the EU Court of Auditors has repeatedly criticized, namely how tax money is handled and how money is wasted. It should be borne in mind that €6.3 billion was spent without a legal basis in 2014. This has been found by the EU Court of Auditors. € 15 billion has been sent to the EU somewhere in the field of development aid. There are no checks, nothing is checked. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens are right to ask themselves: Is that really what we want? – The EU is examining every blade of grass that is not exactly standing, and farmers are being controlled and pressured. On the other hand, they waste the money they don't own, and they cut it out of the window with both hands. So there are many, many problems. Unfortunately, the time is too short now, but thank God we will not discuss it for the last time. There's a lot to do there. I also conclude with the words that Klubobmann Strolz said earlier: If something does not change quickly, the EU is mause dead. - I'll be right there with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12427	I call Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12449	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The population in Great Britain has voted, a political earthquake has taken place, and the EU is learning nothing from it! The first thing that happens is looking for those who are guilty: The culprits are a few populist arsonists – as the Greens have called it – and, of course, the population that has just decided stupidly, not the way the elite in Brussels has imagined it. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Denkfaul!]] Now you're looking for horror scenarios instead of thinking about why it came so far at all. For all representatives of horror scenarios, as Mr Rossmann and others have mentioned, just one example: The first EU accession vote took place in Switzerland in December 1992. At the time, the EU advocates were concerned that, if Switzerland does not join, it would become the poor house of Europe within a very short time. Now, more than 20 years later, I leave it to your assessment of whether that happened or not. - So much for it. From the fact that a lot is going wrong in the EU and that there is no solution in this EU at all – from the financial crisis to the refugee crisis to the Russian sanctions and a number of things – no one speaks anymore. One example of this is CETA. Immediately after the Brexit decision of the British, Mr Juncker did so: Yeah, that's what we're doing now. The objection of the Austrian Chancellor was then meant: “Stop the Austrian Klamauk”! Mr Juncker thought only then, when Germany and some other countries also agreed to pass this vote on to the national parliaments. I have also understood the fear of Mr Katzian, and in order to remedy his fear, I now make a request. It is true that CETA should come provisionally through a Council decision on the back door. Everything concerning European law is to be put into effect provisionally without waiting for the vote in the national parliaments. To prevent this, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform Mr Vice-Chancellor when he says: Not leaving, but improving is the solution. - He may be right. But when do these improvements come? . I only recall the reform programmes of this Federal Government, which, in large part, have very good contents, which are very many projects which would actually be good for the Austrian economy, for the tax system and for some other things. But they never come! You will answer the question of when you want to implement all your projects, with all your good ideas. That's what the whole thing fails.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12503	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12581	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12602	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! For me, the outcome of the Brexit vote was a bit of a shock, because my world or my Europe, as I knew it, was no longer the same the next day and for me suddenly the first time the case occurred, that I myself did not know in which direction Europe would probably be moving in the next few years. So it was a new experience for me to suddenly not know what will happen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Young Europeans and the generation Erasmus, as they are sometimes called – I belong to it myself – have to live for a very long time with this decision. And there are two very bitter truths to talk about: On the one hand, young British people voted in favour of staying in the European Union by a majority, on the other hand, that they did not vote in the majority of the elections and did not vote. This is a very difficult dichotomy that we have to deal with here. On the one hand, young Europeans are very likely to see the opportunities of the European Union. They want to have educational opportunities, to be able to study at any university in Europe, to engage in jobs across the European Union and to appreciate European cohesion. They also rarely participate in the political system. They do not feel perceived, they do not feel represented. We are now faced with the problem that many people may have justifiably said after the vote, who does not go, must not complain afterwards either. That may be true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] That is, unfortunately, too easy, Mrs. Colleague. I therefore have three calls to all parties involved in this debate. On the one hand, this is addressed to all generations. It is quite clear that, after a vote, there is no reason to condone someone for his democratic decision or to create a conflict of generations. That's totally inappropriate. The decision is an order to all of us. It would not be enough if only the young people found Europe to be great. It simply isn't enough to convince the boys of the European idea. The European idea of the political Union must be good enough that they all see as the goal that everyone is burning for it. That's just not enough for the boys. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The implementation must be good!]] But I also say to the older generations: You can't care if the boys don't vote. I believe it is very important that a whole country, the whole European Union, benefits from participating and participating in the political process. However, it is also a call to my generation, to the young Europeans, that they should have their voice. Yes, to a certain extent, you are certainly to blame yourself. I urge the young Europeans to move out of this state-indebted and sometimes self-indebted indebtedness. Democracy is also self-responsible, and we must assume this responsibility, which we also have as young people for future generations, much more. For example, it is not enough to participate online in a petition. Democracy is reality and is also brutal in many ways. You have to go, you have to go. I urge my generation to take this step out and take part, because whoever does not raise his voice has no voice in the democratic process either. I am the only young speaker on this item on the agenda; therefore, on the subject of participation of young people in democracy: Quod erad demonstrandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12651	Now a young speaker has spoken, Dr. Cap. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12678	That's true, too! Before I say something about the statement, I would like to add something to the comments made by Mr Themessl. After all, we had an EU subcommittee, where we decided to request an opinion, with legal obligation, that we are at CETA for a mixed agreement, that we are against “EU only”, that is, against this Juncker story, and that we take into account, above all, the decision of the national headquarters conference. They also informed the Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner in writing. It says that the aim is to ensure that no provisional application of CETA or TTIP is decided in the Council. This is the decision of the national conference, all heads of state, which is also the decision of the EU Subcommittee, legally binding in the form of an opinion. We have already discussed a lot about Great Britain today. We played our supremacy 150 years ago – when we read “Time” through, we find two pages about royal greetings – and I think we have now slowly overcome it. Every now and then, I still have a tear in the buttonhole, when I think we were too stupid to buy a rear loader to be competitive, but no matter. It seems that this has not been completely processed by the UK. Britain is still mourning its empire somewhere and has therefore had problems with integration into the European Union, on the one hand for economic reasons, but also for these reasons for self-esteeming. They are not in the Schengen area, not in the euro, they have the British rebate, all possible exceptions and regulations – this has been quoted a few times today – and Britain has never really felt a membership of the European Union from this situation mentally. They feel a geological injustice, they are docked on the European continent and not on the American. In any case, this seems to be one of the backgrounds. Today a speaker said that the whole thing was like a Shakespeare piece. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That was the Kogler!]] I think it was a Shakespeare piece. But I'm just wondering if I hear about those Super Clubs of the Upper Class, Oxford, Cambrigde: Cameron and Johnson have moved around with all the impossible features in innhouses, and have broken slices. That seems to be cultural forms there. But what did Cameron really learn in Oxford? – If I look at what he has put in his actions that have ultimately led to Brexit, this reminds me of “Heinrich VI.”, Shakespeare. There is an important sentence that David Cameron did not read: “Light will leave a small fire that – first tolerated – rivers will no longer be erased.” It was like that when he started working with the Murdoch press to develop a campaign where one never knew what the true relationship between him, his party and, ultimately, the British is with the European Union. Am I inside now or am I outside, what form do I want? They actually just wanted market liberalisation and not anymore. Therefore, they have lost the Brexit vote in north-east England, where the poorer people are, where your industrialization is, because it was also a social issue that led to a decision in this vote. [[Abg. Lopatka: But there the Labour Party is strong!]] – Do you like to be in the EU or not, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka? I was very unsure about her speech today. I'm not so sure where you really were in your speech today. If I look at this, this has ultimately led to this vote. Then all go in a row, Osborne will probably go as well. When I look at the “Handelsblatt”, Michael Gove is entitled “King Murder of Principle. ” Unfortunately Shakespeare doesn't live anymore, he could handle it without end. Knife in the back, knife in the front, too, Michael, that's where it's going. And vice versa, Boris Johnson does the same. In reality, of course, there is also another economic background. Now they want – and in the “Guardian” you can read about it – to rebuild the UK, to reduce corporate tax to 15 percent, which should go at the expense of social systems. They simply want to carry out a second conservative revolution after thatcher and take advantage of this opportunity in the course of Brexit. The others tolerated that there, they take it for granted that one who comes from Oxford and Cambridge automatically has the right to lead there. In the clubs are automatically always the same, the sons, the grandfathers and again the sons. It's taken there. Honestly, I have to say it's time for something to change there. We are always talking about the need to change in the EU. I am also of the opinion that there is a need to change a lot in the EU, because the message of the Küsser king was that we should stop this fight. When he kisses, he doesn't want him to get his job done at last. I am also with the critics, but we should not forget these Shakespeare actors either. My absolute favorite is Nigel Farage. There you can only quote Hamlet: “that one may smile and always smile and yet be a villain. ” That's true of him. I would prefer to give the speech in the British House of Commons, because there it is in truth that you will finally be reckoned with them, for the 64 million British playjetons in their game for power, in their game for personal ascent. This is really objectionable, which has an impact on Europe and, of course, on those who are living there. Therefore, I do not think that is a solution if, at the end, the battlefield of Brexit will leave, Mr. Nigel Farage, Mr Cameron and everyone will cry out: A horse, a horse, a horse! – We all know the statement from “Richard III.”. They really get a horse. All over the UK is being galloped to and fro because everyone has already won one of these horses. Mr Klubobmann Strache, because you're looking at me like this: If you call for a horse, I don't know if one will come to you. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] It depends on what you've done up to then, but at least Richard III has. I'm sure you'll get another memory value. [[Abg. Strache: I have always seen the SPÖ party leaders ride away!]] I conclude, I can only say more to the UK with Hamlet: ‘The rest is silence.’
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12749	Mr Doppler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12770	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! After the young parliamentarian Josef Cap, a somewhat older person is here at the speaker's desk. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on the EU declaration by the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor on the negative outcome of the EU referendum in Great Britain: I believe that this EU is itself afraid of this form. It was everywhere to read, and reports were spread, a British EU exit had and has devastating consequences that Brexit would cause serious damage. According to a study, the EU withdrawal of the British would and will significantly reduce the country's GDP. It is not as worrying as Mr Lugar has said today. It has been said over and over again – and this has been mentioned by Mr Themessl today – if Switzerland is not in the EU, it will go down. I think Switzerland lives better than ever. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the other EU countries have to compensate for the loss of the contributions of the UK net payer, including Austria. For Germany this means an additional cost of approximately €2.5 billion per year, for France about € 1.9 billion, Italy has to pay more than € 1.4 billion, Spain about € 1 billion more per year. I discussed with British holidaymakers in Pongau why the UK voted in favour of leaving the EU. The British have told me and explained to me that people are satisfied that they are constantly and ever more prejudiced by the EU's dictatorship, and they do not like that anymore. This opinion, ladies and gentlemen, also represents more and more people in Austria. The constant premise that the provisions of this EU are no longer acceptable to many people in this form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12804	The next speaker was Mr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12825	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I think you can leave every club, and that's basically not a drama. So I see this with the British relatively late. I even believe that Brexit will be a heilsa-meer shock and that the shot in front of the bug, the Europe, the EU and, above all, Brussels through it will lead to a thank you. We will one day, a day, a long time off, thank you to the British, say that they have done the initial inflammation that the EU is finally changing in a positive sense. Of course, the British will also have difficulties of any kind, administrative et cetera, that is no question. But if you pretend to be a megadrama, I can remind you that we had a real British megadrama about 15, 16 years ago. That was the cow's insanity. Half of the British agriculture is on the ground. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That was an insanity anyway!]] That was a disaster in England and also in Europe. One remembers the burning meat mountains. There have really been scenes that were apocalyptic and that have threatened England in the economic system. What we need to consider – also as a small country and member of the EU – is what this means for Europe. I believe – and I agree with some here in the House – that we now have to start a Europe of nations in a secure European economic area and that we must finally get away from this idea of the United States of Europe. This can and will not work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to consider what the real causes are. What were the real causes of the British? – Of course, the media campaigns were, and if you look at the English tabloids, that is, the boulevard press, then you can see that there is a completely different level from that of us. There's really got to be, there's a written record of what this stuff holds. But behind that is a massive aversion to centralist policy from Brussels and a massive, legitimate fear of the citizens in England of the EU's migration policy, which has shown a complete failure in the last year, on behalf of humanity. We must take that into account. The central problems are the economy and migration. We must solve these two issues, both in Brussels and in all EU Member States. What do doctors – if I may briefly tell you – do if they face a critically ill patient? The EU is now critically ill because of this situation, but every crisis is always a chance in medicine. The doctors come together, sit together, meet a diagnosis, make a therapy plan and act. At last, it is no longer discussed and debated, which could be anything in the background and which factors still play a role. If you already know the factors – and we have known them for years – then please apply the medicine and finally implement the things we all know. Finally, I can tell you: What the European majority certainly does not want is the United States of Europe. What we want, what the European majority wants, is a Europe of the partner nations, a Europe of European cultures and a Europe of the free economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12870	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, on no further financial burden from Austria through the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition of the Russian sanctions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, my fellow Members, on No for the provisional use of CETA. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – That is rejected. [[13:57:18]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1178, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act regulates the obligation to provide education or training for young people (Law on Education) as well as the Labour Market Service Act, the Employment Law and the Labour Market Policy Finance Act (Jugendbildungsgesetz) (1219 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12939	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e12966	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You allow me to make a brief reply to Mr Cap's comments. I'm very glad that he's giving it a lot now. Shakespeare, for some have already asked the question – not only with us, but also with the ranks of social democracy – which he does all day in the extensive Latifundia of the Renner Institute. Now we know: Shakespeare studies. This is now the new area of responsibility of Mr Cap. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... important for education!]] I think that's great. Hamlet is always a rich source. In fact, I also think of something that we can say to the Commissioners of the European Commission: Of the “thinking of bubbles, ” they are not “crumbled ” when it comes to developing closeness to citizens. - That's Hamlet, too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And something else, Mr. Cap, we can learn from dealing with Shakespeare. This is very interesting, because one always has the impression that the timing at all and everything begins the good, the true and the beautiful only with the accession to the European Union. We learn, however, by dealing with Shakespeare, that there was also a time before, because the much quoted piece, which seems to be still valid today, dates back to 1603. You don't need to worry about the future of Britain. There will also be if this European Union has long since ceased to exist in this form. So, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of compulsory training, guarantee of training: One thing you need to benefit from is that you are trying to bring this law into the way – and it seems that it will succeed with the help of the Greens – at least a confession that Austria has a massive problem with youth unemployment. I heard that from your mouth quite differently. We were told that we are, so to speak, the model, the parade example for Europe as a whole, and that we all come to learn how to do so. The fact that we are deciding on a training obligation today to devote ourselves to one of the biggest areas of unemployment, namely young people, shows that the reality hidden behind your words is then something else. So it cannot be a talk of this healing world that has always been precipitated to us. So far, so good. The problem we have is that, of course, the so-called training obligation you are proposing to us as a solution does not solve this problem either. That's wonderful for statistics, so it's great if we can now use this new law to place the 16 to 18-year-olds in a training equipment that is bureaucraticly somewhat extravagant – let me say carefully – which has the advantage for you that they no longer appear in unemployment statistics. And then I'm just waiting for you to ring across Europe again and refer to an Austrian employment miracle, caused by this so-called training obligation, which in reality is just a move of a problem two years away, but does not really solve this problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that, ladies and gentlemen, what would be appropriate in the debate on the problem of young people/work market/unemployment would be a discussion of the real causes, of the roots of the problem, and not a method that is hideous about mutilating the symptoms, so to speak, backwards. [[Abg. Brunner: A solution proposal from you would be necessary!]] That's what you're trying to do here again. And at least I do not agree – and my group does not agree – when social and labour market policy in Austria gives the impression that it is flicking for failure of the education system, what is being done here, and of course it is flicking for a missing immigration and asylum policy. That is why we are now involved in things that are particularly important to the Greens, where we have obviously agreed with the ÖVP that asylum seekers will also be included in part of the scope of this law. In other words, the asylum seekers are being trained now, even though we do not know whether they will receive a residence permit from us. But that's what you want anyway, because asylum is just like immigration. From your point of view, I understand that's how you see it. From the point of view of the ÖVP, I understand this less. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not what you say!]] - But that's interesting. There is then a motion for a resolution, and there is a question of extending the circle of beneficiaries through this law to those asylum seekers whose applications are promising. . I have always thought whether a request will or will not be made, stands at the end of the procedure. It's already at the beginning. Now you already know in the beginning that this is promising anyway. What about the others who are not promising? What are we going to have a procedure for? I'll ask myself that. So, logically, this is not the case, and it shows once again that, despite all the opposite, the ÖVP also, when it comes to it, falls over, just as it has always fallen down when it comes to the protection interests of domestic workers. [[Abg. Wöginger: You should be able to read, dear colleague!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have three problem areas in which you really need to tackle them in a sustainable and comprehensive manner. The first problem is the educational disaster. It has already occupied us in the early days that the Austrian education system, despite the fact that we have an incredible amount of money in it, is actually a permanent construction site. I don't want to say now, it's a shredded pile, but the output, measured by what's being inserted, is actually shockingly low. Now you can start in compulsory school where we have the problem that we forget to teach students the basic cultural techniques with a wave of immigration, especially in conurbation rooms. Then you can continue this through ideological projects that you like to carry out with these common schools beyond reality, so that only not differentiated and no one is disadvantaged, forgetting that the really brutal selection you do not disable is the social selection. It takes place much earlier, in the kindergarten, in the public school, where many people are also sitting here who prefer to give their children in private hands, instead of sending them to public institutions. This is the real brutal selection, the social selection. Then you can continue to the Central Matura – we have already heard this today – and, so to speak, at the summit of education development, we have the universities. If you look at the rankings at the universities, I recommend you, if you are looking for an Austrian university, to start reading from behind, there They find them faster than from the front. In other words, education is a permanent construction site. Instead of putting up here and looking for a national shoulder closure, by starting the education component with the labour market component and with the economic component in a large order, I almost want to say, and in a national shoulder closure probably in a ten-year project at once, you are running this form of flicking and trying, instead of changing the causes, to push around the back a little without winning anything in the matter yourself. That's a huge problem. It is always important to me to highlight a few basic things in the question of why the education system is so badly associated. You must not be surprised that in some areas this will not happen if you work all the time to undermine the authority of teachers. As a teacher, you are in many areas of the Dodel in front of the class today, and woe, you are doing something that goes toward discipline, so to speak, you have all kinds of institutions on your neck that make life difficult for you. But we want to prepare the children and also the young people for the professional world. But there will be order, discipline and similar things. That's important. And you can't go back to compulsory school, go back and go back and explain to the young people when they leave school: Now all of this is necessary, and you should master it all! I already believe that the virtues that must be taught them from the very beginning are if you prepare them for reality and if you do not make them victims of experiments of ideological nature. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second problem in the field of education is immigration, which we have already had to a great extent anyway, which is once again aggravated by international migration. In addition, you have done everything you can to disaster operational training. That's a huge problem. They have simply deleted reasonable systems, just because they have been invented or put into the world by false people. Business training is in decline in Austria. I very much regret that you should regret it. And for this we have a rage at over-company training, three times as expensive, but not even half as efficient. This cannot be the future of operational training. And you do it here, too, so that you do not take into account in the field of compulsory training, not to strengthen companies, not to support companies, but to seek your salvation in the super-company training facilities, which are somehow all red and black. It looks like a good deal. And the third component – just one more thought at a time – is: Let's assume it's hypothetical, you could do all that In these two years they have not done compulsory schooling, pick up and people would be fit to work! Well, what labour market would you encounter? – On a labour market where there is a huge oversupply of jobseekers and a total undersupply of jobs, because we have the greatest unemployment since the Second World War. And here you are not willing to agree to the safeguard measures that the Freedom Party requires for the Austrian labour market, even if it is about getting under control of the European Union's displacement competition. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – And that is why this cannot be done under the rule and why we reject this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13078	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13099	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Kickl, when we talk about this law on compulsory training, which we thank God today will be decided together with the Greens, then you know – even the spectators should know – that we speak of about 5 percent of young people who leave school in one year. That's 5 percent. That is, 95 percent of all other young people either have a training in firms, are in school or have attended an over-company workshop or have completed an AMS measure. We're talking about 5 percent, Mr. Kickl. You are talking about getting statistics done or getting statistics beautiful, you are talking about problems, we are talking about young people, of all those young people who deserve a chance. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] This is precisely why, Mr Kickl, we are now making a mandatory training law, which is intended for time after compulsory schooling, so that some 5,000 young people in the year who are without training can also get a chance to enter their adult life. We talked about this in committee, Mr Kickl. There are simply young people who after nine years of schooling need a piece to mature. It is true, of course, that one can talk about the problems in school, that is not at all an issue, we do so again and again in the Committee on Education or the Committee, but we also need to pay equal attention to those young people who are lagging behind in their development. That is why the Education Obligation Act is being adopted today, a law that will give many young people an additional opportunity in the future. For the spectators, so that you also know what you're talking about: These people I am now talking about are three times more often affected by unemployment in their future adult life. They are four times more often employed as auxiliary workers and they are also much more often at risk of poverty. Training, we all know, a vocational training or a school education is the guarantee of a self-determined life, is also the guarantee of an employment biography that allows a good start. Therefore, there is this training obligation, which can be dealt with in a variety of ways, whether in companies – where I really invite the economy to participate as a partner, so that this training obligation can also be implemented – whether in labour market policy projects, in production schools or in schools. I am convinced that this is a law that gives many young people a chance. I have called it 5 000 people's chance laws, since it is assumed that those young people will also be trained. In contrast to you, Mr Kickl, I am also pleased that, together with the Greens, it has succeeded in adopting a motion for a resolution that does not include 100 percent of asylum seekers in the law on compulsory training, but at least to invest more strongly in German courses and that the asylum procedure must be reduced especially among young asylum seekers and asylum seekers. I think that is also important, because these are people who live in our state and who deserve as much an opportunity as all other people do.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13145	Mr Mag. Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13166	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Today, the Federal Government suspends this training obligation by the National Council, with the green agents in the Schlepptau. And who can be against it, because compulsory training up to 18, that sounds great? – Yes, you have negotiated a ridiculous motion for a resolution, Mrs Brunner, that is all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] However, the starting point of the law is the weaknesses of a significant part of compulsory school leavers in Austria. If a fifth of the compulsory school leavers have no basic knowledge of computing, reading and writing, then it is clear that these young people are unfortunately not suitable for the apprenticeship market. We have a problem in the school system, and this problem continues to be reflected in the labour market. But this law now does not improve education, it does not improve the school system. The Federal Ministry – the Minister says it is happening once – does not appear in terms of content in this law at all. It is not about the strengthening of the basic competences of these young people, which is not at all interested in this federal government. What is the interest of this Federal Government? – The young people aged 15 to 18 are simply transferred to the AMS. It will outsource the problem we have in the education system, very cozy, patchy, to the AMS. Then these young people are allowed to live in over-company training centres, are parked there and can get used to becoming permanent customers of the AMS and permanent customers on the second labour market and to staying on state dependence from an early age. The effect you achieve, Minister, is that you have these young people out of the statistics for three years, and then you can use wonderful numbers in front of the media. Whatever the law does not contain, there are concrete objectives for training these young people and for compulsory training. So it is not about doing something with these young people you are sending here in employment therapy via the AMS. I therefore propose an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] The causes of youth unemployment are therefore not affected, namely the disaster in the education system, the “Stillness in Education Policy”, and the bureaucracy for the companies that should train such young people might also have to be started, even if you do not. Since nothing is happening in these two fields of action, the training requirement will not be sustainable for young people either. What happens then if the training obligation does not achieve anything, has Vice-Chanceller Mitterlehner already in 2014 to the daily newspaper “The press” said: Then comes the attitude – and that's what you really want! They want to tell companies with quotas how many young people they have to hire, whether they can or not. That is the aim of this Federal Government. And of a government that knows nothing but more state intervention and more laws, unfortunately, nothing can be expected of failure.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13245	The amendment is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13300	Mr Wurm has spoken about an actual correction. I would ask you to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13324	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, in her statement, said that this law concerns 5 per cent of young people in Austria. I'm correcting: In fact, according to your own statements in the supplement to the government template, it is 13 percent. That's a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13351	Mrs Minzig is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13373	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If, even in rural areas, we have more than 50 percent of the unemployed reported to the AMS with a maximum of compulsory schooling, then it is high time to take the rightful to take care of the training of their children. Of course, Mr Loacker, the fulfilment of the education standards is a prerequisite, we do not need to speak nicely, and we are doing a lot of work on the industry of the Chamber of Commerce in order to support educators and educators to reach these education standards also in schools. Nevertheless, we have over 5,000 young people a year who are on their way to becoming lifelong social cases. In the CVs we know the sad stories, once on-job, once off-job, and I also hope that with this training continuity among young people more motivation, more willingness to work is developed, because the business practice shows that just unqualified employees are very often changing the workplace, no longer appearing or are not willing to work in certain sectors. We've got the problem everywhere. In tourism, the host no longer find any staff in the lake area, they block day by day, they block their bars – and this is a big problem. We have 2 800 unemployed persons in the district, 250 with Employment and 1 500 job vacancies. No entrepreneur understands this, but the citizens no longer understand it. Therefore, the comfort zone has ended. And I believe that this law is an important and correct step, but a reduction in minimum security will still have to follow. Unfortunately, we have to put some of the young people in the over-company training institutions, unfortunately not only because it causes high costs, but also because, as you have correctly said, the first labour market would be the better. Therefore, we also need to focus on apprenticeship coaching in this context, 150 companies are already involved. I initiated a two-year modular teaching in the field of metal technology as a pilot project in Upper Austria. September starts. This is exactly the right step, a short lesson with a degree, but also a connection, so that someone can complete the complete teaching later, when the button opens to him. This is a success model in Switzerland and Germany. I can also imagine this for other sectors, such as tourism, and I ask you, Federal Minister, to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13415	Mrs Dietrich is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13436	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it makes sense for young people to pursue employment, and of course, it is up to society to see that young people find framework conditions that allow them to make a correspondingly good training in order to be able to take a foothold and to have a future. Unfortunately, we have the situation that our school system fails over long distances. We have a school system that makes it possible that in Austria, according to experts, there are 600 000 people who have attended the school and still cannot read, write and calculate. I am convinced that the right approach can only be to reform the school system. We need to strengthen the school again, introduce school autonomy, create appropriate framework conditions, that teachers can also have joy in teaching, be relieved of bureaucracy, and the joy of teaching can also be passed on to the students. Now the teachers are being blackmailed by bureaucracy. They have no place to develop, they have no pleasure in teaching, and the student stays on the track. This law on youth training, this mandatory law, is already the right approach, namely the approach to see young people not landing on the streets but being integrated into the work process. But: Where you sit, that's not right from our point of view. They start by leaving the school system the way it is, and at the same time strengthening a repair system, the AMS says that the young people who do not continue in the school system will then be picked up there, almost re-trained and made fit for the labour market. This is the wrong way from our point of view. We want to: (a) strengthening the school system and point (b) closer cooperation between the AMS and the school. But that means that the AMS should cooperate with the school. The AMS aims to ensure that vocational orientation is better that young people can imagine themselves more under the profession world, that they are already developing a plan in young years, such as their careers. to look forward, and that cooperation with businesses will work better. That would be our way. We do not want to look away from the cause of the repair system, but we want to strengthen cooperation with the companies. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This dual training system has always been presented as the success model. Now we see that, despite everything, we have a huge training gap, because the entrepreneurs say: We find it difficult to get a suitable apprentice, because the higher schools are already subtracting the better students, and the entrepreneurs are not willing to live with the requirements that have been decided here. Why is this supposed to happen to an entrepreneur? – If we continue to do so and do not reform the system, we will have such a shortage of skilled workers over the next few years, which will be difficult to solve; for this reason our approach to working more closely with businesses will also strengthen businesses. Germany has also gone this way. In Germany, this pact, which was decided in 2004 to motivate businesses to create 60,000 new apprenticeships annually. That was successful. Germany has closed the training gap. The training gap is still present with us. That is why we should go on the way to strengthening cooperation with businesses and to make the school system fleet in parallel, so that we really have young people who live in the establishments that have a future perspective and who perhaps even go on the way into self-employment, who then learn in the company that this is not so bad at all, and take the courage to do something themselves. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for acceptance.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13535	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13605	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13628	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It remained almost exciting until the last second, and I think now I can say: This package consists of the Training Obligation Act, a motion for a resolution and additional agreements with the Minister. This package, that's a good one. This package covers all young people aged 15 to 18. [[Congratulation with the Greens, representatives of the Spö and the Abg. Wöger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been explained: These are young people who, according to their compulsory education, leave the education system. With this new system they get another chance. You will have a chance to get back on track and make a vocational training. [[Members Kickl and Belakovich-Jenewein:A training guarantee is already available!]] Vocational training is the central guarantee that they will later have a job from which they will also be able to live. In our opinion, this is very, very important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Between 15 and 18 years of age, this is a totally difficult phase of life, because you look for orientation, you try different things, not everything goes well. But I think it's really welcome that society says: Here we put, here we look again, we do not leave the young people or their parents alone! We offer a hand and say: Come on, let's try it again! - And that's something that's good. I think that does not always have to succeed, but this combination of data collection, then support and advice, and finally a targeted action that is put on it, can work. It's got a good chance. In any event, it will be important to check the impact of this law, that you look after half a year: Do these measures take effect? Is that what we want here really successful? We Greens will surely accompany the implementation of this law and the accompanying measures with requests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that: This law or the whole package cannot solve all the problems that the lack of a school reform in our society leaves in our lives. And it's quite clear: This law cannot solve all the shortcomings caused by our Austrian asylum system. But: It is a package – and I repeat it – that will bring something to all young people between 15 and 18 years of age. I would also like to point out that we have succeeded in achieving some substantial improvements during the negotiations. It has succeeded in ensuring that all young people with disabilities are involved. It has succeeded that the youth assistance work is only temporarily accepted to a very limited extent as a fulfilment of the training obligation, that this is almost not legalized by the back door, which we do not really want. We have also succeeded in having good quality social pedagogical support through further expansion of youth coaching. Because, as I said, the on-hand name must simply be of good quality. Finally, it has also succeeded in incorporating quality assurance elements into the system. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the talks and negotiations, we have also achieved significant improvements for young asylum seekers and asylum seekers, who come to us almost at an age after compulsory school. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Practically, this means a stronger and wider involvement in youth coaching for young asylum seekers and asylum seekers, i.e. more advice and support. Practically, the German and alphabetization courses mean for all, including the acquisition of travel costs. [[Abg. Kickl: Alphabetization in the mother tongue or in German?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Both as well!]] In practice, this is often an obstacle to really being able to attend these courses. And there is also an extension and facilitation of access to apprenticeships. This too, I think, is an important point: that the situation of the young asylum seekers is individually targeted and that the AMS will support them so that a disability teaching profession can really be adopted. Nevertheless – I do not hide it – we would have preferred to have the young asylum seekers fully included in the law. There were also many institutions, organizations that also voted in favour. That is why I am submitting an amendment that was copied and hopefully distributed to you, because it is so extensive. I'd like to explain him in rough moves: In principle, it is a matter of involving the asyl-induced young people in the law in a comprehensive way. The rest of the application refers to changes which result at different levels, i.e., only explains the structural, institutional and financial consequences of the inclusion of asyl-induced young people. Ladies and gentlemen, all in all, this three-part package is a good package, and I would like to thank you for this compromise. I would like to thank the government parties, of course also the Minister, very explicitly also for Mrs. Dr. Kotzegger and Mr. Dr. Hartig and the employees of the Green Club who worked on it. I think it was intense, it was also hard negotiations. [[Abg. Kickl: Beinhart is negotiating!]] Finally, all the people who are here with us have managed to get a piece under the arms. It is about giving these people a chance to have a life that is half manageable for them. We Greens have decided to give this opportunity a chance, and that is why we will agree to this package.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e13758	Both the motion for a resolution and the amendment are sufficiently supported, properly implemented and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14023	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14044	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! It is, I believe, a very decisive step that we are taking today. Many young people in Austria, i.e. 5,000 per year, have no chance or are unable to come to vocational training in normal life. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig has already pointed out: They are therefore three times more unemployed, and at the end of their working life they are four times more often employed as auxiliary workers. Please accept my request. It is: Think about it! Some youths have no parents who support them in their choice of careers, have no opportunities in school, have been hard hit there. Today's training law allows young people to be motivated to develop a training plan. We say to the youth coaching: Go to the young people! We are doing ongoing social work with the aim of saying to all young people in Austria: Come on, now you have a chance to do a training! This training measure is suitable for your living situation! My goal is to give every youth an adequate opportunity to achieve vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We can cry now. We can regret that something in the education system has not worked. But: What's the use of this? These young people? - Nothing! I support all measures to improve the education system. There are many proposals. Please, let's do it! But it is important for these young people whom we want to achieve here to go to them now, offer them help and then learn from how we can actually reach these young people. I would like to thank all the Members who have said so. It is about giving young people a chance. It is now a matter of making very clear that these young people also receive training. And I say one thing: If we look at such young people when we find them, if we make them an offer, then they do not fall out of an unemployment statistics, no, the opposite is the case: If they don't have a job, they fall in, and that's exactly the difference! We want to give all young people a chance. In addition, I expressly thank the Greens that they are also willing, in a difficult situation, to give their consent. Thank you for that! But I also say one very clearly and clearly: I think we are a country that should have the power to all people between 15 and 18 years of age. Year of life, which is justified in Austria, also allows for access to training.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14096	The next item is Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14117	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Federal Minister, these are good words that you say here, and that sounds good as well: All young people should have the opportunity to receive training. - So far, so good. Mr Federal Minister, you know exactly what's going on today. There is a legal claim for all young people to obtain a teaching post, and if it is not a business, then it is in one of the over-company teaching workshops. However, it is striking that in recent years they have been shot a little like the swams out of the ground. It should also be remembered that training in the workshop is more than three times as expensive as an occupational teaching. That is, we have taken a lot of money into our hands in recent years. Now I come to the very point I would like to make: Among its predecessors, the Committee once visited such an over-company workshop in Vienna, operated by youth at work. At that time, we not only looked at the teaching workshop, but of course we also received information. Something was interesting at the time – and Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, if I remember correctly, you were even there –: The one who did us there at that time and explained all this to us, first of all, said that it is well over 90 percent of young people with migration backgrounds, at that time already, long before this great wave of refugees that we now have. That is to say, this is a problem in the area of immigration, which we have imported, that many people who come here do not even see the sense of training as it has not grown that way. The second thing he said there – and that was much more exciting – is: There is a certain percentage of young people who come here and are supposed to learn a profession here, with what your predecessor has always said: They are set up for the working world, they must learn to be on time!, is also interesting. If, after nine years of schooling, a person has not yet learned to be on time, then there will be no change in the education requirement, because that is a matter of recruitment. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: But there is no political blame, or!]] This is a problem once, but a certain percentage is simply gone. They will no longer come, and they will no longer be reached, and the punishment will not benefit the parents either, for now, Minister of State, explain to me: What should parents do if the 18-year-old just doesn't go anymore? – So this is really an eye-removing. Mrs Schatz spoke of the package: If you look at the package, you know where the trip is going. It is about the asylum seekers – and I am talking here about asylum seekers – now all should be alphabetized, German courses are to be given. Now we know that there are so-called promising procedures, whoever decides now that it is promising. This is also not uninteresting, because when we said that economic refugees should be rejected at the border, you said of the Greens: Well, how do you want to know that? – So I wonder: How do you want to know if an asylum application is promising? This wording alone is a bit of a limit-value, and it is precisely these that should now be alphabetized here. If Mr Wöginger speaks of the war zones, I mean, that can only be the Syrians. That's what it always said: There are the highly qualified. So we've got to Alphabetize the highly qualified. [[Abg. Moser: What do you have against alphabetization?]] Mr Federal Minister, the answer to a question remains to you: Should they now be alphabetized in German or alphabetized in their national language, in case they return sometime? [[Abg. Moser: What's so bad about it?]] Maybe you could explain a little more precisely what's going to happen. [[Abg. Moser: Are you an illiterate?]] One thing I'm missing from all this law. Mr Minister, you said – I have written it – that if someone does a training, it is a guarantee that he can stay in the work process. – That too is not true! There is a lot of young people who have made a solid training that has plagued and tried, but who have no chance at all in this labour market. That's what I'm asking myself: When to Become Are you making a program for these people? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When will a programme finally come for those who have been trained and cannot be accommodated in this work process? One question I've already asked myself: What happens if this training obligation does not work now? What happens if the situation remains as before and you lose these 5 to 10 percent of young people because they don't come? Do you then extend the education obligation to 21 or 25 years? What is the conclusion of the whole? So basically, you're trying to beautify something here. [[Abg. Moser: What is the alternative?]] The background can only be the asylum seekers. It won't work again because it's just in the nature of the thing. – Therefore, this law must be rejected from our point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14223	The next item is the speech by Mr Hechtl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14244	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! A few more words about this compulsory training law: I believe that the situation of young people – not only in Austria but also in Europe – is a situation that we politicians have to face. We need to see that these young people get their chance to take up their skills on the labour market. We see in Europe in particular that some countries have very, very high unemployment. Austria is a state that is very, very good in the positive sense of youth unemployment. This is also a sign of the positive attitude of politics towards this group of persons. If we are taking an important step with this law today, some say, I am convinced that this small step, that we young people – it is 5 percent who are very, very difficult to get into the first work process – will give the opportunity to qualify after schooling is better than no step. Even though it is only 5 percent, it is 16 000 young people who quit early training and 5 000 young people of a year who do not have further training. I think we can and can't care. We need to give these young people a chance. One chance is that they will come to professional qualification under this Youth Training Insurance Act. If you look at the statistics and see that these young people become three times more unemployed than other young people, four times more often used for auxiliary workers, or seven times more often used for non-employment activities, because they do not find a place in their learning area, this is already evidenced by the drama of this situation. With this compulsory training law, we allow young people to receive training on the one hand, on the other hand, to be used on the other. In this context, I would like to congratulate Mr Stöger and the Ministry quite warmly on the fact that there will now be this possibility at various stages. This is Europe-wide and unique worldwide. We can proudly say that we have set up a measure that will help our youth – it is our future. If we invest €57 million from the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, this is a very good investment, an investment for the future; Financers would say it's very well-designed. – Congratulations, Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14281	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14303	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minzig – now she is no longer in the hall – has said that unqualified employees often change the workplace, they would be dissatisfied, unmotivated and this law would change it. Excuse me? – I see no evidence in this law that it will explicitly change it. How are those who have not yet reached a certain level of education after compulsory schooling at the age of 15, which can then somehow reach through AMS courses or in an over-company training facility? That is totally unrealistic. Young people who have been immediat at the age of 15, who are probably bound to the state for all their lives, are now being led to the state’s dependence at the age of 18. In fact, it is totally unresponsible how this issue is dealt with. The training requirement is nothing but a youth unemployment cover-up instrument, because it is about moving the problems which we cannot solve in the education system into the labour market. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Moser: What else do you want to do?]] There would have been so many good starting points to take advantage of the opportunity to really move something. It would have been better to involve stakeholders from the education sector in this law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] The Court of Auditors has also criticised: There is no way to deal with the shortcomings that lead to the problems that the law should actually solve. That's completely absurd! The Ministry of Education needs a much more comprehensive involvement to implement a vocational and training orientation for young people even before the end of schooling, so that they also know where their journey is to go, what they want to do, where they actually want to train themselves. This does not make this law possible. I am also a bit disappointed at how cheap red and black could get this two-thirds majority. The motion for a resolution contains a number of naturalities: Asylum procedures are to be accelerated – clearly, as we are probably all agreed – and German and alphabetic courses are to be made possible, and the budget should not be increased – the resolution is really not very large enough – and it should be used properly. [[Abg. Kickl: Please don't destroy the illusion of the woman treasure!]] Oh, sure! I hope so. But what we could actually have done would be to take advantage of the opportunity to reach a real medium-term maturity, to include educational objectives in this law, so that we know what these young people at 18 years of age should be able to have what educational standards they should actually have as qualified workers. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then we would really come to an appropriate education system in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14397	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14461	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14482	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gamon! There have always been weak pupils, one must also address this quite openly, only there used to be a lot more auxiliary work, where these people found a job. [[Abg. Kickl: Auxiliary workers too!]] We do not find this to this extent today, but we have always had different gifts among young people. It is important that we take these young people under the arms of helping them, namely those who are weaker in learning and who stop training. This is what we are doing with this law, ladies and gentlemen, and I think this is a socially important measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] We are also good at the international comparison of the youth unemployment rate: 11 percent compared with almost 19 percent – the average in the European Union – and in some countries, such as Spain and Greece, youth unemployment is almost 50 percent. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, not in the UK, in the EU...!]] As one must not be a prophet, there will be social problems in the future if, so to speak, almost half of the young people in this country feel: I'm not needed, I don't have a training place, I don't have a job, I don't have a job! This is a problem for young people: if they get the feeling that they are not needed in this society. That's what we're making clear here: Young people should feel the following either through a school education, via an apprenticeship or through another education: Yes, I am needed, I remain in an important system, I am so to speak led to the labour market! I don't understand at all what you can criticize or suspend. This is an important measure for us to signal young people: You are needed in society, we also need you on the labour market! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] It is therefore necessary to support this training obligation in all cases. A second comment on the constitutional majority and on the motion for a resolution: Yes, we have been conducting good negotiations and good talks in the last few days, I think. [[Abg. Kickl:... but have to laugh yourself!]] – No, why, Mr. Kickl? – Well, now you’re just saying the opposite of what you said at the speaker’s desk earlier. [[Abg. Kickl: It rarely gets so cheap!]] Previously, you said it's an insanity what the ÖVP is doing. Now you say we've gotten the constitutional majority cheap. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It's both wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We have gone as far as we can with good conscience with the motion for a resolution, namely that young asylum seekers who come to us learn the language once. [[Abg. Kickl: Which one?]] Without language, it will not be possible to integrate young asylum seekers. [[Abg. Kickl: Your own or German?]] But we only agree with those who come from certain areas, where there is also a chance, where it is ensured that they can stay. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well, that's different!]] – Mrs Colleague, you are usually so intelligent that you can read a request. It says: “Because they come from war zones”; if possible, their procedures should be further accelerated. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Read more!]] – That’s there and nothing else! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Not just one sentence!]] We confess that young people who come from war areas first learn German, otherwise there is no way to start either school education or teaching. [[Abg. Kickl:... alphabetize in native language?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The second is – if they can remain – that the procedure is accelerated. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Are you bright?]] This is human, and this is also necessary, because if these young people want to work, we should give them this opportunity. That is what we are making clear with this motion for a resolution. What we do not want is a general access of young asylum seekers to this training requirement, which is why we do not support the separate amendment of the Greens, because this would be a false signal to the young asylum seekers, since we cannot fulfil this and would therefore generate false expectations for young asylum seekers. - That's all. I also thank you for bringing this together. It is an important step for young people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14700	The next item is Mrs Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14721	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is probably everybody's real awareness, because the whole attempt at good speech and grievance that we've heard today does not help: Yes, we have countless problems in our education system, and no, this bill will certainly not solve these problems. The obligation for young people to remain in the education system until the age of 18 to, among other things, pay for the parents, goes completely beyond all problems, such as poor training or high youth unemployment. In Austria, we have the situation that every fifth 15-year-old cannot read and write meaningfully or solve basic mathematical tasks after completion of compulsory schooling. There is nothing to do with the obligation on young people to sit down in this system for two to three years. That's the wrong approach! What we need is an increase in quality. We need a system of education which is capable of conveying these basic skills until completion of compulsory schooling. For years, however, our education system has been destroyed by ideological experiments and the transformation into a socialist education-political one-way education – also called a total school. For years there has been a waste of the level of education. What's going on now? – Instead of admiting that your education policy approach simply does not work, talk about it nicely and require students to remain in the education system for one to two years. My colleague mentioned it earlier: What do you want? You're actually doing it when the young people 18 years old, when they're out of the education system, can't still read and count, or if they still can't do German? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Do you want to extend it then? Do you want to extend it to 20, 21 years or more? One must already recognize that this approach, simply to extend, cannot work. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] By the way, the word duty alone is already a completely wrong approach. Over the past few years, one has fought really hard for the fact that young people have been declared to be menacing: At the age of 16 they are allowed to choose, at the age of 14, they are punishable, except there are certain reasons that they are not yet mature enough, 14-year-olds can commit themselves to services, the electoral age in the works council election should finally be reduced, at the age of 16 you can start driving licence training, and, and, and. All over you are talking about how mature young people are, how capable, how self-employed – and now you want to take away this independence in the form of a duty and thus also to explain it for not yet mature enough to decide independently what they want to do with their lives. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Please do not!]] Slowly, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, you should decide whether you are now declaring the young people to be mature or not. They're definitely for us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, one cannot, of course, prescribe a duty without at the same time ensuring that there are enough apprenticeships. Over the years, SPÖ and ÖVP have made sure that operational training is broken. They simply removed a premium system that worked excellently – for example, the Blum bonus – and instead forced the construction of the state-controlled over-company training centres, the so-called ÜLAs, and are also operating with party-related organizations of these ÜLAs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I am already at the heart of this bill: Who benefits from it? – Just these state-led ÜLAs, the party-related organizations, are doing a business there with a course company that is very lucrative for them, but does not bring much to young people on the labour market. By the way, this is also a system which is much more expensive and still much more inefficient. It is well known that you learn swim best in the water, and of course the same applies to training, so you learn best in the company itself and not in any simulation. What seems to have just been prevented – Mr Wöginger, it was not a complete crash, but at least a half – is that the asylum seekers will be taken up, I repeat: Asylum seekers, not just asylum seekers, are always thrown into a pot. Austria should, when going to SPÖ and Greens, not only be the World Social Office, but also become the World Training Office. The only advantage of this law, at least on paper – and I am right for colleagues from NEOS – is, of course, a super youth unemployment statistics over the next few years, because they will no longer appear there because they are all in any kind of class. I congratulate you! This is nothing but a beauty of unemployment statistics. In summary, this proposal for a law is an employment therapy, a beauty of unemployment statistics and a business model for institutions close to the government, and will therefore certainly not be approved by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14784	Dr. Walser, you are speaking as the next speaker. Do you want to start? We've got 3 minutes left. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14805	Mr President. Minister! High house! Yes, we have now had two different debates. One thing is: Yes, it is right, with this law we will not be able to solve all the problems. Yes, it is right that we should start too late for young people aged 15 who are not in education. We've known this for a long time. That does not mean, however, that we are not trying to find a practical solution in the sense of young people affected for a huge problem, so that at least a little help is given to them. That is why we voted in favour. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second point seems to me interesting as well: The legal parties are in rare agreement with NEOS, also in language, that is terrifying for me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gamon.]] Mr Loacker speaks of a "unseemly motion for a resolution", says that the Greens are "fulfillers". – This is a kind of ridicule of parliamentary instruments, a form of ridicule of compromises that we have entered into – yes, that is not just green, it is a compromise – which is not worthy of a democratic party. [[Abg. Kickl: You can have a different opinion!]] To defame such compromises in this way is not worthy of a democratic party. [[Abg. Kickl: Here we distinguish, we allow other opinions!]] We know this from the legal parties – there are two inside – but not from NEOS; I have to say that you should consider yourself a little bit as you argue in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] This law is, in my view, a compromise. I am very grateful for the fact that our social spokesperson Birgit Schatz has fought until the end, achieved improvements and has taken a significant step forward, a step for affected young people. I do not quite see – this goes to the address of the ÖVP – that young asylum seekers who are not in education at the age of 15, 16, 17 can do nothing – I honestly tell you, if I had nothing to do with 15, 16, 17 years of age, I would not only have occurred to myself – I would not have been able to do at least more qualified German courses and so on. We don't understand that you're blocking here. We will continue to fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14880	I thank you for the landing of the item and I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda item 2. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14898	We are now entering into a short debate. The short debate concerns the request by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 1748/A(E) on the appeal of the Constitutional Court of Justice on the establishment of safety in the case of demand-oriented minimum security for a period of up to 7 years. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call Mrs Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e14943	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Why this deadline request? – We have in the last Committee – not by chance, but precisely because Austria is currently discussing the minimum level of security – very, very many requests for minimum security, and all these requests – although I think they should be discussed urgently – have been postponed. We therefore call for a request - I will explain it later then even more precisely - which is particularly important for us to set this deadline. In fact, we believe that not only the whole of Austria should discuss the minimum guarantee – partly this is done with untruths, with half-truths, which are often spread quite consciously – but also here in which this new Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government and countries is finally to be agreed must be discussed on the minimum guarantee. [[call to the FPÖ]] That's my opinion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is the minimum guarantee? – I remember: It is the last social network before the total crash we have to offer in Austria. It is the network that is intended to catch people in a situation where they are at risk of poverty, in which they are in extreme distress, from which they also need to be helped out. We all agree that we do not want people to get to the minimum security and stay there, but that they will get out of there too. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I now have the impression that some – and I look very consciously in the direction of ÖVP – make this social network very grosser, make bigger holes, and thus deliberately endanger social peace in Austria. And I don't want to watch that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For months there have been negotiations with the countries, with the social councillors and the Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Actually, the whole thing's pretty good at track, there's a lot of agreement. Only one country – and I look back in the direction of ÖVP – that is, Lower Austria, boycotts this agreement for months, and I have the impression that it is a bit like a site competition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Usually it is in the location competition so that we see that we find the best minds that we find the best places that we choose well that we build competences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But what are we doing in this case? – They start a competition of horrors, in which sleds are increasingly driven on the back of people and in which they are almost matched by who takes the last shirt off faster. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] [[Abg. Rädler: Talk to the citizens!]] I see a lot of responsibility at the ÖVP, so please listen to me rather than call in – thank you. [[Further call of the Abg. Wheeler.]] What is the minimum guarantee? – As I have already said, the minimum guarantee is an instrument that will help if nothing else helps, an instrument that will help if people do not know how to fight everyday life, how to survive, how to heat up, how to allow their children a ski course, how they can even participate in social life. It is something quite, quite exceptional in Austria, that we have this minimum guarantee. This is a good thing in European comparison, please don't destroy it! Let us work together on this new Article 15a agreement, which ensures that we have a uniform system of minimum security from west to east, from Bregenz to Neusiedl everywhere. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I therefore come to our request – the request does not want anything more than to unite it. What was in the past? My colleague Karl Oellinger can tell you more about this because he has experienced it. In 2010 the minimum security was created, since some countries have already torpeded the whole. This is not about foreigners and foreigners and those in need of subsidiary protection, but about Austrians who are already disadvantaged in many countries, and that, as we believe, is unconstitutional. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Take, for example, the Steiermark: In the Styria, members pay the pension for the minimum insured persons, and members must pay it back. In Carinthia, apprentices are excluded from the minimum guarantee. [[call to the FPÖ.]] In Lower Austria – I am back in Lower Austria – family allowances are deducted in people with severe disabilities, who receive increased family support. These are all states that are not really portable and which are now, and that has a whole new quality... [[Abg. Wheeler: Not portable?]] – Not portable, yes, they are unbearable! This now has a completely new quality, because in many countries additional obstacles are still being created, which are not at all constitutional. With our proposal for a deadline, we want you, Mr Minister and valuable government, to step in before the Constitutional Court and to examine what has happened in the countries for years and what is happening on the back of the poorest of the poor in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Mr Rädler, listen to me briefly, because I now want to clear up with two myths that the ÖVP is constantly spreading. One is the potential for savings in cover for multiple-child families. We always hear of a cover at €1500 and then ends with multiple-child families, and you're talking about saving so much. We've been looking at this now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] A WIFO study has been published in recent days that proves that 2 percent of the demand budgets are affected – 2 percent! Do you know what that means in numbers? I now expect you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to know that this does not mean any savings potential. So I wonder what else you want with this message. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] This is about €15 million – €15 million, but it is a risk that families will fall into the poverty trap from the age of two, and you will be taking a more active part in it! Families with two children! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rädler:... Electoral helper for the blues!]] [[Further calls from Mr Rädler and Mr Walser.]] A family with two children loses 150 € according to your regulation. Do you know what that means, 150 € for a family with two children, a family with three children, with four children? Do you know what that means? - No! Because we all deserve enough here because we're fine because we can't understand how people have to turn around every cent who can't even take part in social life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] The second myth I want to clear up with is this difference. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] They always say that the minimum guarantee is too high, because it does not pay off. But I want to turn this around: The minimum security level is not too high! There are people – very many women who work in service, in cafes, in trade, hairdressers – who work for less than 8 € hourly wages. [[Abg. Wheelers: They don't work at all!]] Under 8 €! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] This 8 € earns you in I don't know how many minutes, and these people earn less than 8 € per hour. So it is not a question of reducing minimum security, it is about raising wages in very, very many sectors. Then people do not depend on this minimum guarantee. So let us stop the debate and let us discuss here more often how the social network can and should work in Austria, and I would like to participate.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15172	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time of all the following speakers is 5 minutes. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15197	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mr Rädler, perhaps you do not know how the minimum guarantee in Austria is designed. [[Abg. Rädler: I know!]] – Listening You may need a short time, Mr. Mayor! A person in Austria is currently receiving €837.76 per month of minimum security – twelve times a year, not fourteen times. [[Call the FPÖ: That's wrong!]] The average reference period of a minimum insurance referee is currently eight months, the average payment amount is €300 per month. 75 percent of all people who receive the demand-oriented minimum security are so-called uplifters, i.e. they receive minimum security, although they either work or may also receive a service from the labour market service. People who receive a minimum guarantee in Austria must use their assets up to approximately €4,200, and the share of demand-oriented minimum insurance measured in our social expenditure is 0.7 percent, Mr. Radler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] People who are responsible for the need-oriented minimum security must, if they are able to work, be available to the labour market; otherwise, the need-oriented minimum security can also be removed from the labour market. These are the facts on minimum security, Mr Rädler. [[Abg. Riedler: I know her!]] I am vice-president in Amstetten and I also know how many people relate to need-oriented minimum security. [[Abg. Rädler: Look at the results of the elections!]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Madam President, he can also speak.]] However, you also know that if you look at the development of demand-oriented minimum security in recent years and if you also look at the people who relate to the need-oriented minimum security: People have changed, people have changed. Today, people are referring to the need-oriented minimum security that might not have thought five, six, seven years ago to ever have to get into this situation – I am now saying quite consciously: must. Economic crisis, financial crisis, but also – and this also in the direction of EIA – non-existential labour incomes, non-existential jobs mean that more and more people need to obtain demand-oriented minimum security. There are also more and more mentally and physically ill people among the relatives of the need-oriented minimum security. And that's where you want to move! Think about it, colleagues from the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Yes, it is true that there are also asylum seekers among those involved in the need-oriented minimum guarantee, but these are people who come to Austria with nothing but a plastic sack, and I think Austria has the obligation to help these people for some time. Believe me, many of the people who are azylically entitled to work in Austria would like to work, but at the moment it is particularly difficult for people who have sought protection from us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Madam President, he does his 20th. Call! Is there anything you can do about it as chairman?]] The people who have a need-oriented minimum guarantee – I am sure you will have to be right, Mr Radler, if you are already mayor – are usually innocent in this difficult situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This situation is very difficult financially for many people, but it is also difficult for people. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Loacker.]] This situation is socially difficult, and you know it as well as all other colleagues here in the room: Poverty makes you sick! Poverty exudes, poverty prevents us from participating in our social life. And I think that politics has a duty to stop Mr. Raedler and not to split society, but to allow cohesion, including by law, in society. The Minister said it again and again: The need-oriented minimum security is the last social safety net in Austria to protect people from hunger, which is the catch-up network to protect them from homelessness. If we are now starting to start a competition down in the individual federal states, I appeal to you all who are responsible here, and also in the countries: Let's stop it! Let us consider how we can make this last safety net in Austria fit, as we can do just as we can, as we also reduce the distance to income from work, I give the EIA's colleagues the right to do. But as my colleague Schwentner said, Don't cut the minimum security, which is 16 percent below the compensation allowance and 30 percent below the SILC poverty threshold; this must also be considered! Instead, let us jointly ensure that in Austria there is a minimum income of €1 700 gross for all people working full time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] Then we would have reduced the distance, ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP and also from the Freedom Party, because I already think – and I experience it in my everyday life –: People want to make a contribution in society. We have a society that is still very much defined as to the value of work, and many people who are members of the minimum demand-orientated guarantee are suffering very much from this situation. Yes, there are always those who may not have this will to work, but there are the sanctions of the AMS. Let's not always talk like it wouldn't be! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] The last sentence is a request from the Greens, which we have postponed in committee: We, Mrs Schwentner – I said in committee – believe that at this time, while the Minister is negotiating with the countries, a call from the Constitutional Court is counterproductive. We are more of the opinion: Let us try to strengthen the Minister's back so that there may be this federal solution – which is probably not enforceable – but that at least the need-oriented minimum security is preserved as the last social security network in Austria as we know it and also need it!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15345	I now have a word for business treatment. – Please, Mrs. Club Chairman Glavischnig-Piesczek.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15366	Thank you, Madam President. . I think we all agree that this is about the exchange of arguments in Parliament, pro-dress, counter-dress. But it is really very, very disturbing in the meantime when individual male delegates make speeches of women up to 20 intermediate calls. I'd ask you... [[Abg. Rädler: It has nothing to do with this!]] – Really, this is really unbearable, you can just make a statement once! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: I feel discriminated!]] I know that I can't make a request that Mr Rädler should get a call for an order, but it's really particularly striking when female Members here make speeches that there are then continuous disturbances and calls for call. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15423	I have no further motion for a resolution on the Rules of Procedure. Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15459	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! We are certainly living in a social welfare state, and we from the ÖVP are also committed to a social network. Every person can come into a situation once that he is dependent on getting support from the public. The question, however, is: At what height and under what conditions do you receive this support? We have always seen minimum security as a springboard back into the labour market, and so we understand it today. It is about social justice between families, namely those dependent on minimum security, and those where employment is pursued, and it is about a greater difference between income and social benefits. One thing is also clear, ladies and gentlemen, we are already reaching our capacity limits in terms of financing. [[Abg. Schwentner: 15 million!]] This, of course, is also related to immigration, but not only – but we have a very increasing number of minimum insurance stakeholders. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Look at the situation in the districts: Despite increased budgets, we have already used the budgets at the present time, and we cannot close our eyes before that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I think the negotiations are going well overall, but there are two points that we still call for as an EIA: One is the cover. I'm trying to explain this to you with an example from my constituency. Recently, a worker calls me, who is himself a worker in an industrial company that earns €2,000 gross and has a family of five to care for three children. In the neighboring house is a family with four children, which involves minimum security. The minimum insurance beneficiary has been so pleased and the neighbor – the one with the 2 000 € gross – has shown that he receives 2 100 € minimum insurance and 800 € family support. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] These are net amounts, ladies and gentlemen, 2 900 €! You have to earn grossly more than €4,000 so that net of this amount is left! That is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call at the ÖVP – towards SPÖ –:Listen!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] We want a social network, but with a cap of 1,500 €, and not at these heights, because we can't explain it to the people who go to work – that's the point! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Haider.]] I actually do not know a collective agreement that takes account of the number of children. If I have 1 500 € net available, then the gross means 2 100 €. Of course, family aid is to be paid out in addition. Where children are, the family allowance belongs, that is not a question, even for the families who are providing minimum protection! But I ask to observe everything in the world, one thing: If we want to enable integration and if we want it to be recognized and contributed to the domestic population – especially the tax-paying population! – then we have to put in this cover, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second essential point is that we also need to consider a classification that we are also voting on the length of stay in the country. And this should apply to all, I do not want to differentiate between foreigners and nationals. Those who have not lived in Austria in the last three years are entitled to a lower social benefit. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] It's not inhuman, it's not unsocial. At the pension summit, we also agreed that we should say that someone should get more if he has paid for 30 years. Where did the demand come from? It is right to say that we have minimum pensioners, i.e. pensioners with compensation allowance, who do not understand that they get the same money as those who come to this country and have never paid anything here. We must create a social balance within the population. The population understands that there are social benefits, but – I say it again – it is crucial to what extent we provide these social benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen]] [[Abg. Hagen:... said two years ago!]] The money has to be generated first! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The taxpayers have to pay this in order to be able to finance this social network to this extent. And that's what I'm asking for. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We will also be measured by the population as to whether we make reasonable arrangements, so that on the one hand we ensure social security for those people who need this, and on the other hand we clearly say that we distinguish between income and necessary social benefits. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why else should someone go to work? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] What we don't want is that someone who has created something, for example, a family house, which would still be a disadvantage, because no one can get anything into the book... [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15612	You have to come to the end of the sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15633	The final sentence, Madam President: We're in good conversation. [[Call the ÖVP:Social justice!]] Much has already been done in the context of the discussions on Article-15a agreement. But we need these two points, because then the population will also support this regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15668	Next came Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15696	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Values See you here on the ranks and at home! I'm not sure if I should cry or laugh. But if you look at the development of the debate on minimum security in recent years, you can see that it has already moved a lot. That is the meaning and purpose of politics. I would like to point out once again that we have been doing nothing else in the countries and the federal government since 2011, but to draw your attention to the misdevelopments that have already been clear from the start. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We were insulted for this, and it was depicted as if we were inventing things. [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Yes!]] Mrs Schwentner – please stay there! – you said you should tell the truth. Mrs. Schwentner, we have always said the truth! [[Call the Greens: No!]] You gradually need to note that the ÖVP – at least in the first approaches – will be seen what comes out – is learningable. I don't even see that here. [[towards SPÖ]] There are precisely these terms of minimum guarantee of €4,000, € 5 000 and € 6 000, and these are not inventions. This, of course, is much more important than you say, Mrs Schwentner. One thing I would be interested in, Minister Stöger – you are sitting there now – is: Your predecessor, Minister Hundstorfer, and you yourself claim in every committee that there are actually no exact figures because it is an article-15a agreement, and you do not know it. Then colleague Königsberger-Ludwig comes out and reports any numbers. We should take a look at the numbers that can at least be researched, and that is some of them. I would like to point out once again: In 2011, we started with almost 190,000 minimum insurance providers. With the last figures I have also received from you, Mr Minister, we are beyond 300 000, with a tendency towards 320 000. Your predecessor, Minister Hundstorfer, answered me to a parliamentary question – I just have to read it –: "From the first meeting, it could be concluded that there are still a number of expert discussions to be held until a final proposal for an improved BMS statistics (...) can be presented. In this sense, a next meeting was scheduled for the 12th. In accordance with Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1301/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1301/2013. So they're putting this in front of you. The reality is that you do not want to put these numbers on the table to the population because they are destructive. The taxpayers will be thrown out with both hands, the dimension of which we... [[Abg. Schwentner: 0.7% of social expenditure, Mr Colleague!]] – Mrs Schwentner, you know that we have been recording or raising figures in a federal state since 2012, namely Tyrol. I have the current figures from Tyrol, and it is very likely that you can draw conclusions from them. I mention it again: According to current status – at the end of 2015 because there are no more up-to-date figures in Tyrol – in Tyrol, 50 percent of the minimum insurance beneficiaries in Austria, 10 percent of EU citizens and 40 percent of third-country nationals – this is the whole area of asylum. And you should just say that to the population. [[Abg. Schwentner: Read the Constitutional Law!]] Of course, the increase is due to the wave of immigration. We are talking – and the ÖVP knows, it probably knows better – about over-stretching the municipal budgets, over-stretching the national budgets and, of course, over-stretching the federal budget. These are three pots. At present I would appreciate – the Minister can tell me exactly at some point – that we are in this area at a tax rate of €2.5 billion per year. Explaining Please pay the taxpayers! I'd like to know how you want to do this. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Gerhard Schmid.]] I would just like to give a small example of minimum security. Yesterday I was contacted by a citizen from Tyrol. A family entitled to asylum, who has her child in kindergarten and who has a minimum degree of protection, has told quite proudly – or the citizen has more or less listened to the conversation with the kindergarten – that she will now make a holiday. It is a Syrian family that will make a holiday in Turkey. The citizen who called me is one you once represented, dear Social Democracy! She's a normal employee who can't take a vacation with her family this year because she just can't afford it. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] And she needs to know that a Syrian family that carries minimum security travels to Turkey on vacation with the whole family. I wish you a lot of fun explaining these conditions that we have to the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15801	You have to come to the end of the sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15816	Finally, on my part, [[Abg. Keck: Gschachlprinter!]] Minimum security is a financial grave without end, and we liberals believe the minimum security for Austrian citizens, for EU citizens... [[Call the SPÖ:Grayish!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15858	Your speaking time has been exhausted. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Peter Worm.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e15897	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what my previous speaker has provided is a good example of how we cannot feel and should lead a debate: My neighbor has heard that the girlfriend of his uncle, and so on. – That's how it starts and that's how it usually ends. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] I could now explain to you, Mr Commissioner, that the family's holidays, if they are asylic and at least entitled, will not work at all. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Of course, he or she must remain available to the labour market. [[call to the FPÖ.]] And on and on, if you have to make yourself available to the labour market, it is not as easy as you can make vacations, and you know that too. We would have liked to discuss this seriously once that, of course, there should be something like a holiday for unemployed people and people involved in minimum insurance. [[New call to the FPÖ.]] But at the moment it is not about it, but about your example, which you are throwing into a debate. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Even if this individual example should vote, which I do not believe, it does not explain at all the system, how minimum security works and how it should work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It should work in such a way that all will be shaved over the same comb according to the principle. I think that's absolutely right. The problem has already begun with the introduction of minimum security, which Mr Rädler may no longer be aware of. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Perhaps the white colleague, Mr Rädler, is no longer – and this has been a few years since – that there have been different country wishes when it was introduced, which have largely prevented old social assistance from becoming a new system, which together leads to a uniform performance for all federal states. Unfortunately, nothing has become out of it. [[Call the Greens.]] We know that, and we have criticized it from the very beginning. We would have liked to have a Federal Social Assistance Act, not such a dizzy article-15a agreement, which can then be re-opened every five years, so to speak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] That's a huge problem. We would have liked the federal states to take seriously the text of their own minimum guarantee laws or the agreement with the federal government and then not to go here and say: We do not need to give people with disabilities the increased family support, which will in any case receive the minimum guarantee. Of course, this is not all right for the federal states to pick out the brocades and actually damage their own people, namely those who really need this performance. These are poor people, no matter what skin color they have. The main thing, however, is that they live in that country, and if they have nothing else, they should, of course, receive a right to minimum security, in accordance with the same principles that apply to all. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Of course, I also want a refugee – like any other poor person – to get a job and not a minimum guarantee. If we do not, then it is the task of politics and, of course, of the economy – this cannot be taken from the responsibility – that we make it. But if you think we don't or don't want to do this, you have to say it. But if you do not say it and yet feel that we all have the right to a certain performance if we are poor, then everyone and everyone is entitled to the minimum guarantee – the end of the debate. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We don't want that! We can't do this!]] That should be the case. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minimum security and any other social benefit should be the same for everyone in the country. Anyone, whether or not foreigners, foreigners and foreigners, refugees and so on, should be equal. But what we have experienced in recent weeks and months in debates is exactly the opposite: Let us try to reduce the minimum level of protection for refugees. It is also about the proposals that Mr Wöginger has mentioned. Let us speak very cleanly, Mr Wöginger. I have also put forward a proposal in committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Let's put the stuff on the table: What does a family – if there is – need to live with four, five, or six children, regardless of whether it is a refugee family or a so-called domestic family? What does she need? [[Abg. Lugar: This is not independent!]] Let us talk about it and not about restrictions that are based on lack of money! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] This is another approach, Mr Wöginger. It is not possible to limit that by € 1,500 and not look at what that means – even from the legal bases, because it naturally violates constitutional law. [[Abg. Wöginger: And where does the employee have the legal basis?]] . I say to Mr Wöginger only the one sentence of the head of state Pröll. This has also been asked:...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16059	You have to come to the end of the sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16074	What could be done to prevent the difference between labour and social income? To this end, Pröll answers that the increase in minimum wages is not necessarily necessary. That's exactly what it's like, I think.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16101	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16123	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! – [[Abg. Wheeler: Socialist in the Needle Strip!]] Unfortunately, television viewers escape the continuous calls of Mr Rädler, who have been going through the debate since the beginning of this deadline debate and should actually be withdrawn from the debate at the level of 10 minutes. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The Greens are right if they require a uniform national minimum guarantee. In the case of minimum security, much more would have to be done, but unfortunately all the requests from all sides – which have also gone in different directions – have always been postponed. It would have to do something in terms of residency so that, if they have asylum status, they can also say where they should stay, where we have capacity for German courses and where there are jobs. It takes – I come to the colleague Wöginger – incentives to work. But the incentives to gain cannot be reached with a cover of € 1,500, because the effect of the aid is also at € 1,500. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, exactly!]] The question is: If someone relates to minimum security, what incentive does he have to go to work? Someone who refers 1 500 € to social benefits... [[Abg. Wöginger: You're a family, just for information!]] – Yes, but how does he earn €1500 net? Someone who finds a job out of unemployment has to earn it first, because that is not so little now. In other words, the problem of minimum security is not above, but below, because it is not profitable for him to take on a job, where he may earn €800, because he is reclassified from about €150 – depending on the federal state again. [[Abg. Wöginger: But 800 € is also not much!]] It takes a grinding and a acquisition incentive from below, because otherwise the whole cover will not use anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] And you will also admit that you have different needs in a family depending on whether it includes, for example, two adults and one child or two adults and four children. [[Abg. Wöginger: There is family aid, Mr Loacker!]] Here we come to another problem: The family factor is paid twice, once on the basis of the minimum guarantee, because each child receives a minimum guarantee supplement, and the other time from the tax side, with family allowance, child allowance and so on. One may rightly ask why one pays twice for the factor family. I understand your remarks in such a way that you also ask this question. Another question that we should approach relates to the benefits in kind. If there is a suspicion that funds are partially transferred to the home countries of the entitled ones, we must ask ourselves if we are no longer going towards benefits in kind, so that cash is not used for any purpose other than that for them. Another point: The Court of Auditors has for years been criticising the co-existence of two basic systems, namely, minimum security and emergency aid on the one hand. There are a lot of emergency aid providers who can obtain this benefit for years, some even over 20 years. And because emergency aid is lower than the minimum guarantee guide, they are increasing. The consequence is that two authorities take care of the same person – the AMS pays the emergency aid and the district authority the minimum security. However, the left hand in Austria does not know what the right hand is doing. It is in itself inefficient to have several authorities working on the same person. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] That is to say, we need to limit emergency aid in time to ensure that all these providers are transferred to a common system after – we believe – two years of unemployment benefit, emergency aid to minimum security. What we also need is a database of transparency, so that we also know in the social sphere what the different bodies can do to each individual. If you're going to give someone an aid as an office, you have to know what else he's going to get. And there's nothing going on. There is nothing going on in the federal states you have ruled. If you want to reduce the distance between those who work and those who do not work, you might also need to consider whether taxes and social security contributions are too high and that is why work is not retiring. There's a lot to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16233	Next, Mrs. Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16255	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Greens who have updated this subject. We can see from the course of the debate how important this issue is. In the Committee it was just as it is often handled by the government parties: Whether a topic is important or not, it will be postponed. If you don't want a subject in plenary, it'll just be pushed to the long bank. That is why I would like to thank the Greens because it is important to discuss it. Minimum security is the last social network in the state where, I wish, none of us should land. It's really terrible, because the one who lands there has nothing left. Nevertheless, as my colleagues have already said, we must discuss this and ask: At what level do we grant minimum security? There are two aspects to consider: on the one hand, the social aspect – I believe each of us would like to distribute as much as possible – but also the financial aspect. We just can't afford it! The municipalities, the countries have reached the upper lid. If I look at Graz alone, which had an increase of plus 22 percent in this area from 2013 to 2014, tendency up, then I have to say, we cannot afford this system. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Whatever we want, there I am with Mr Wöginger: We need to discuss the height! Even if we say that everything that is possible, everyone should live as well as possible in a welfare state, but it must nevertheless be the height of the labour market, that is, the height must correspond to what a person can earn in the labour market, and must not be anymore. Otherwise, the motivation will fail to get out of minimum security sometime back into the work process. The minimum guarantee is a steering instrument. Where it is higher, people are drawn. I know that, if recognised asylum seekers have been informed in Styria, they will go to Vienna as soon as possible, with the argument that is legitimate, I will get more there. We have also heard from the colleague, Königsberger-Ludwig, that there are, on average, six months reference period for the minimum guarantee. If you look at the individual federal states, it is mainly Vienna and the Burgenland, where people stay in the minimum guarantee much longer. In Vienna, 74 percent remain longer than six months, 73 percent longer than six months in the country of Burgenland, while in Carinthia and Styria only 41 and 45 percent longer than six months remain in the minimum guarantee. That is, if you are in Vienna, then you have taken good care of it, you have a high minimum degree of security and you usually stay in it for many months. But once again to the point why this issue is so boiled up. My colleague Christoph Hagen mentioned it two years ago, because he was aware in dealing with people that many were discussing it. Bought up due to the newspaper article, which said that a refugee family had received € 5 118, and many asked how that could be possible. [[Abg. Wenninger: How... in the outdoor pool!]] I think it is right, it is quite legitimate and it is also social, social, to the Austrians, to talk about maximum values, about matters, about money, about reducing the minimum security for asylum seekers, because we are not supposed to be that state, where we are going, and where we simply have many people in our country because of our social conditions and we cannot afford this social system in the long term. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, Minimum security is a very, very important issue. She should really be temporary. We should also consider the level of minimum security in the sense of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16302	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Amendment No 1748/A(E) to 7. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[15:45:31]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16339	I will start the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda again. I call Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16363	Madam President. Federal Minister Stöger! Ladies and gentlemen! Oh, my God! Yes, we are again on the subject of training obligations. Mr. Federal Minister, a training obligation until the 18th century. Life is not bad for itself. Also, the objective you pursue with this training obligation and which you also clearly define is not bad, namely that after the completion of this training obligation with the 18th. Any person who has gone through it should be eligible for work on the first labour market. But, Mr Federal Minister, just as you are dealing with all this training obligation and how you are dealing with the subject, do you seriously believe that this is working? You know, Minister of Education, with this training obligation, nothing is done but simply extending a misguided educational policy for three years. Now you have the situation that many young people 15 years of age are unable to start a teaching because they do not read, write, cannot count. And now you believe that by building up the so-called ÜLAs, with AMS courses et cetera, you can reduce all these deficits in three years through a three-year training obligation? You can't believe that! Federal Minister! The idea would be good, and you would have found us as a co-contributor right away, provided that you had included the companies. Everyone here speaks again and again – not only in Austria, also in Germany and Switzerland – about the dual training system being the success model, and it is sold worldwide as such as advertising. That's right! But what you do has nothing to do with dual training. You know, the assessment of the ÜLAs three, four years ago by the Chamber of Commerce, also through parts of the Chamber of Workers, was such that at that time they clearly held that the ÜLAs were inefficient and far too expensive and had an immensely high drop-out ratio. Federal Minister! Now I have nothing against the fact that you have set up ÜLAs, because there will always be shifts or isolated people who simply are not suitable to practice a profession that is not suitable for attending a higher school. We will always have that in this society. They mustn't fall through the rust. But the number of ÜLA participants has increased so exorbitantly in recent years that it is already terrifying if you just take this number into your mouth. And you want to extend that for three years now! You know that this does not work with the ÜLAs the way you have imagined it or your predecessor has introduced it. They know that the AMS courses have still not been adapted in such a way that they are really needed-oriented. This is still not happening. There are package courses offered that are not needed anywhere. This may have improved a little in sub-areas, but this does not result in people being able to do so for three years until the 18th century. Year of life extended, in which the first labour market can be used. Federal Minister! Now, everyone and all the parties here in Parliament know that the shortage of skilled workers has been going down massively for years. You know how the Austrian economy is structured. More than 99 percent of Austrian businesses are SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, and more than 90 percent of them with up to ten employees. In apprenticeship training, the large firms do not actually have the problems, they make up their apprentices themselves, they choose the apprentices themselves. Today, if you take the apprenticeship training site of a well-known Vorarlberg company that trains more than 100 apprentices each year who win the World Championships and European Championships, you can see that it does not have this problem. But now you take most of the farms, take You're a ten-employee company! This company is actually interested in taking up an apprentice so that he can replace it later, when a specialist goes into retirement. Do you know what the procedure is there? – In the first year of teaching, the apprentice costs nerves and time. In addition to that, he costs money. But he's costing all things. In other words, a small company employs a skilled worker to train the apprentice accordingly. And believe me, the companies are interested in the fact that the apprentice can already be used as a full-time worker in the second and third years of teaching, because it is also an advantage for the company. You have forgotten all of this in this training commitment! You didn't take the farms and then you think the whole thing will work. This will be a pipe-creper, Mr. Federal Minister! As Mrs Belakovich has already said, What happens if your objective does not grasp that they are still not necessary in the first labour market at 18 years of age, what happens then? Will the training obligation then be extended to 21 years? How long do you want to go through this? And all this is associated with eerie costs. I say to you: If you create incentives for companies again, we will again have more companies that will be willing to train apprentices. We have had a decline in the number of occupational apprenticeships over the last six years of more than 13 000 per year. We have a decline in apprenticeships, i.e. from companies that are willing to take on an apprentice at all, from then on to more than 40 000 to less than 30 000. Mr Federal Minister, the alarm bells have to cry! I simply don't understand why you're not going here and involved in such an important topic as the problem of the shortage of skilled workers, the apprenticeship training, the dual apprenticeship training and the corresponding involvement of businesses. Federal Minister! I would have expected you to do that. As you present the law now, you will have to find in one, two, three years that it didn't work.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16435	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16457	Mr. Themessl! If you now say that this law, which includes compulsory training, is the wrong approach, I wonder: Do you want to continue to see more than 5,000 young people drop their education early each year and have no education beyond compulsory education? - Not me. That's why I'm glad we're going to pass the law here today. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amon.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Themessl.]] It is precisely these young people who, because of their level of education, are at risk of consuming as an auxiliary worker or, in the future, prove to be unfortunately unemployed. That is why we must do everything we can to offer these young people in our country a further opportunity so that they can get back to working life in the future. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But you do not do everything!]] It is certainly not easy in practice – we are fully aware – to convince young people by individual forms of care of the need for this measure, which we decide today. Now perhaps with the words of the mind-giver of this law Rudi Hundstorfer: He once said that in Austria we should not only talk about whether we have too many academics or too few academics, but we should take the view that we should also give the teaching profession to the public the appropriate value and as an indispensable part of our economic structure. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's what we've been saying for years!]] Because without well-trained skilled workers, the economic successes could never and never be achieved in Austria. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Exactly!]] With this training obligation, I am personally convinced that we have taken the path in the right direction. But in order for the hoped-for successes to come to an end, I believe that we also need the help of the economic operators. These should not only be sick and sick and should not represent Austria as sent down, but we need entrepreneurs who become aware of their responsibilities and today are going to train the highly needed skilled workers for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16539	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16560	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's been a lot of attention. I repeat it once again so that it becomes clear, especially for the government parties including the green beewagerl: They are not doing everything for the young people in Austria. You always say you want to do anything to improve the situation. You don't do it! Again: We have two major problem circles. We have a shredded pile in education policy – the ex-minister is also sitting there – which you continue, where there is no starting point in education policy, for young people to improve something for children. [[in the direction of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] You continue your system, cost it what it wants – and if you stay 10,000 to 20,000 young people on the road. The second issue, which I look to the right of the EIA, is also a failure of economic policy. Col. Themessl did it well. Nothing's happened for years! Then we have the paradox that, when a teaching post is enrolled, the entrepreneurs say on the one hand, I do not get decent apprentices I can take, and on the other hand, dozens of job seekers are looking for a teaching post and say they do not find a teaching place. Something's going wrong, that's what you want. Do not take note. You're now making a law with the pink glasses. You move this in the statistics that all in any training camps or other AMS courses land, but you don't help young people anymore. Perhaps again to explain what we are talking about here. [[Abg. Amon: What is your proposal?]] I say again the dimension: It's 13 percent of the young people we're currently losing. But the asylum seekers who have come are not yet included. There are not all the young people who are now working somewhere, nor are there those young people between the ages of 15 and 18 who are already working as auxiliary workers. In other words, the group of the less qualified is much larger. We have been telling you this in Parliament for years. Now I say it again: Two things you have to do. [[Abg. Amon: What is your proposal?]] - I explained it to you before. They must give the entrepreneurs outside opportunities for them to recruit apprentices again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I repeat the numbers – I also like to write to you, but you only need to ask – from 41,000 teaching companies to 29 000. There must be with you, at which ÖVP shrieks all the alarm bells. And you know why entrepreneurs have fewer and fewer teaching companies. You know it very well. Then please change it! If you don't make it with the SPÖ, please with us. We have been discussing the failure of education policy for decades. They continue and continue and do not notice that after nine years – you should generate in soil and soil – you have not managed to teach children the most normal things: Cultural techniques, being punctual, greeting, three times three is nine and reading a text. Even there you continue without changing the system. This law is just pure cosmetics. Perhaps one of my main points, which I think is very important, is that of the supplements. It is always very hard to read your supplements. But I'm making the effort. You yourself write in your statement on this bill that every youth who is almost lost costs the state an average of €1.8 billion. [[Abg. Amon: What?]] - Stand here. You can read that. [[Abg. Amon: What?]] – 1.8 million costs the state. figures from Finland, from the European Union, but already from 2011. We have similar studies in Austria, which speak of €2.5 million per youth. Now I do the simple bill – and you have to say that: Over the last two years, we have brought more than a hundred thousand people into the country under the title of asylum. If You multiply this hundred thousand once with this value of 1.5 million, then you know how many hundred billion we are, what the state will cost in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16649	Mr Huainigg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16676	Madam President. Minister! High house! We are now adopting the Education Obligation Act, and I am glad that People with disabilities are not excluded, but taken immediately, because no one is allowed to be left behind. It is also a sign of equal opportunities if disabled people also have this training guarantee up to 18. We have very good successes, especially with the partly qualified teaching, in which training takes place in the vocational school and in companies, and this also includes expanding and expanding in the vocational secondary schools. Why I brought a balloon here today: ==References== July, and today exactly eleven years ago, the Austrian sign language was constitutionally anchored here in Parliament. Afterwards, after this decision, deaf representatives as a sign of joy in the Volksgarten have caused turquoise balloons to rise, turquoise because Turquoise is the color of the sign language. It also wears some turkise ribbons today. Yes, 11 years ago, and some things have moved. There were then two schools in pedagogy: either sign language or speaking language. Today there are bilingual classes, and that of course belongs much more. The way is the goal. It's changed a lot. In Parliament too today, all plenary sessions are translated into sign language. There is a deaf Member; Helene Jarmer was still an activist at the time. Or: The “Time in Figure 2” is translated into the sign language daily. The new year's address of the Federal President is also translated into sign language. That was inconceivable 11 years ago. Constitutional provisions have effects, and since the beginning of this legislative period, I call for every speech at the end of the term that human dignity must be enshrined in the Constitution. I believe that this would also be an important social measure and would also have an impact on politics and on how we act here. Oops! [[The balloon dissolves and rises to the ceiling of the meeting room.]] Eleven years later, a balloon again rises – can happen. Be it a sign of what we decide here in Parliament and what constitutional provisions can bring about. In six hours, the sign will be gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16727	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16749	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Commitment to education or training for young people: This law seeks to combat and counter the high unemployment rate among young people. Optically, we have already heard today, this is a correct approach, but it would be even more important if Mr Minister were to take up the education system. Here you can achieve much more and provide a basis for the further life to the young. It is right and also very important to support young people who, by their own power, do not succeed in completing education beyond compulsory schooling. I do not personally believe that this law on compulsory training is the right approach. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, starting in 2018, fines up to €500 for the legal guardians. That's the totally wrong approach. The right approach would be education. This law treats symptoms rather than causes. That would be the same as if a seriously ill person with a cough- It would be treated with juice. That wouldn't be enough. In both cases, you have to treat the causes. That would be the right approach. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16785	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16806	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The training requirement up to 18 is an important further step in the area of training for young people. Why this is so important is proof of the number: Some 5,000 young people each year do not have further training. Today, the impression is that all these 5,000 young people are migrants. This is not true, ladies and gentlemen, because of these 5,000 young people who fail to achieve these qualification goals every year, only one third have migration backgrounds and two thirds are without migration backgrounds. Among these more than 3,000 Austrians, there are many weak young people and many who also have family problems. Let me now give you an example, ladies and gentlemen. There is a large Austrian company that, to the extent that 10 percent of its annual apprentices are weak, that is, school really bad young people who would otherwise have no chance of vocational training or in the labour market. And there was a youth whose school certificate was given the grades 3 to 5: 3 in sport, 4 and 5 in the other items. Its parents must also be said that they are an alcoholic. This youth has taken advantage of the opportunity that this company has offered him. He received between 15 and 18 training in this company, which he received with his 18th. A year of life completed with a positive examination of the course. He has become a supporter of the company and has just finished the master exam positively. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is exactly what I believe, ladies and gentlemen, is this training requirement: a chance for all the young people concerned, as I have described in my example. This law allows them to give a positive start in their lives and to create a win-win situation for them. And for that, Mr Minister, I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16846	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16867	Madam President. Mr. Minister! On the subject of compulsory training: A well-founded training is the basis for a successful life course. In times of ever increasing prices for daily food and goods, as well as high additional wage costs, good and completed vocational training is more important than ever. In principle, a training obligation would be accepted, but this request should be rejected as non-reality. This compulsory training law goes from compulsory training until the 18th century. A year of life and thus aim at teaching occupations in the first place. The fact is, however, that not enough apprenticeships of certain vocational groups can be offered to trainees. For a large number of trainees, the obstacle is already in the search for a qualified training place. The importance of training up to 18 is not within the duration of training but rather in the success of training and a positive conclusion. The legislator is required to take measures to facilitate young people's entry into work with appropriate training. For example, trainees and trainees should be relieved for the duration of the teaching obligation in the area of additional wage costs. Tax premiums for successful vocational training could also be considered. But a purely time-consuming obligation, almost a decommissioning of the training obligation until the completion of the 18th century. Year of life passes the goal. The application in question also deals with the training of adolescents entitled to asylum and protection, according to which this training obligation should also apply to this group of persons. Basic training, including language training, requires an average of seven years. However, since asylum is definitely not a right of duration and is at best re-examined and evaluated after three years, it is not likely to be completed. Although education and employment promote integration, a common, comprehensive view and legislation in this form are neither objective nor meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16906	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16928	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers! Any young person who leaves the education system without a degree or does not take vocational training today will most likely not be able to live on his work in the coming years and decades. Such a young person will be heavily dependent on state support in the next few years. For the sole reason and in order to strengthen people, to be able to live their lives themselves and self-determined, it makes sense that we today decide on this package with the training obligation or training guarantee. But I would also like to tell you about a very specific youth, a 16-year-old young man whom I met a few weeks ago on the day of children's rights. His name is Mahmud. He's 16 years old. He's from Syria. He fled Syria with his parents. On the escape he was separated from them and now lives in Styria in a small village. He told me that he is very happy and grateful to have found reception and support in Austria, that he appreciates this very much and that he thanks himself for it. At the same time, he told us that he would like to learn the national language today rather than tomorrow. But in the small village where he lives there are no German courses. He would have to travel for about an hour by public transport to the next German course he cannot afford. And he can also not afford the means of transport there to travel an hour each day by bus to the next German course. With this package, which we decide with two-thirds majority today, we will jointly ensure that these 16-year-old Syrians, this Mahmud, and many other young people in his situation can finally attend German courses, learn the national language, what they wish for. In this sense, a warm thanks to all those who have negotiated constructively and who have achieved a significant improvement for the most young people in the country and who have also made it possible for minors to find protection, even if the package does not yet achieve equality. And I hope that over the next few months and years, looking at the results of today's package, we can further develop this system so that no young person under 18 is in Austria without training, so that minors who have mostly arrived without their parents in Austria can also find support so that they can learn the language and, in the future, can also make a training. In this sense: Thanks to all those who worked constructively.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e16979	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1219. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as well as a motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen. Since the present draft law contains an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. First of all, I would like to vote in favour of the parts of the legislative text concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional or amendment to Article 2(3), (10) and (13). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment relating to Article 2(14). If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional or amendment to Article 2(15), (16) and (20) and Article 5. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen, on the apprenticeship package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Treasure, Muchitsch, Wöginger, colleagues on German courses and alphabetization for young asylum seekers from the beginning. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 160.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gamon, fellow Members, on the introduction of educational measures and on the medium-term maturity. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[16:19:54]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1185, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, which amends the Construction Workers' Law on Vacation and Processing, the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act, the Workers' Processing Act 1979, the Workers' Protection Act, the Construction Labour Coordination Act and the Labour Inspection Act 1993 (1220 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 1669/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in a federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (AlVG) (1221, b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1733/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on legal certainty in the case of self-employment within the framework of the GPLA procedure (1222, e.g.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1383/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on ‘Reform of the compensation allowance in pension insurance’ (1223 p.a.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 488/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, colleagues, on the increase in the basic amount of EUR 857 million in non-fundable terms (1224, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17182	This brings us to points 3 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17210	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a government template to negotiate here again. This is about involving companies in the BUAG. It has been found in the context of checks that there is still a gap here, so to speak. This gap will be closed. I think it's a good thing to really decide this law. Since, I must say, I am grateful to the chairman of the Committee, who has also fought for the fact that there are no injustices between young workers, namely apprentices, and everyone else. I think that is a good and important arrangement. So once again, the government has really succeeded. If you want it, it works! Furthermore, there are some applications for the opposition which are still to be negotiated. I would particularly like to draw attention to one of these: Mr Loacker's request for legal certainty in the case of self-employment within the framework of the GPLA procedure. Here, in the request of Mr Loacker, there was a disputed disputed disputed proceedings, so if there is, in order to explain it to the spectators at home, self-employed persons who, for example, only have a client, where it is disputed whether it is a self-employed person or a non-self-employed person. Here, of course, it would be useful to create legal certainty. The respective allocation may also lead to far-reaching changes for the person concerned. In this context, Mr Federal Minister, one should, I think, really seriously consider why there is always such a dispute, why it still has to be that we have different social security schemes for self-employed and for unemployed people. That's something that doesn't make any sense at all. In addition, we have nine different local health telephones. Now you could say that's all quite sweet and nice. The problem here is, however, that it is the benefits that differ, that for insured persons a completely different range of services is available, depending on where someone is just insured. I believe that this is not the right way, and this is where a solution should finally be found. For many years – I myself have been here in Parliament for ten years – we have called for this from FPÖ. I remember, in 2006, still under the then Minister of Health Kdolsky, the Will was there – there was still Social Minister Buchinger here – that one brings together a performance harmonisation. To this day, nothing has actually happened. And I think it is urgently necessary, truly urgent, to address this problem seriously. It has already said to the new Federal Chancellor, celebrated by you as Messiah, that he wants to change something here. He also justified this by halving the number of executives at the ÖBB – and Similarly, he introduces himself to social security schemes. That's supposed to be the end of it. A study should now be prepared first. This is once a step in the right direction. But I do believe that Austria is not that large and that it must finally succeed in unifying the Austrian social security system. In this context, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I urge you to give your approval at last. I think it is urgently necessary that we finally address this issue here. It can't be that we pay 22 social security funds, each with the whole annex, with the whole, I say now, executive. The time is ripe for this. Now we're all finally taking the step together and putting the cash registers together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17286	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17355	The next speaker was Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17377	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! I would like to comment on the innovation of the construction worker's holiday and handling law, a law that is very or exclusively specific to the industry, as we hear in the committees again and again. The aim of this novelle is to improve the implementation of regulations in the area of bridging money, a bridging fee, greater legal certainty in the application of this law, but also improvements in the adaptation of a construction site database, or to require employers to apply web applications accordingly with this law from 2019 on. In this novel, however, Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein also mentioned it – about youth, apprentices. Here again, after two years of negotiations with the construction social partners, it has succeeded in finding a solution that apprentices are entitled to a bad weather compensation. This has not been the case so far, and we have finally made these results quite clear on the occasion of a survey by the Bau-Holz trade union. 45 percent of apprentices on the construction site have been deprived of vacation and time during these days of bad weather. This is done with today's decision and the new regulation will enter into force at 1.1.2017. But there is also an evaluation in the area of holiday calculation, which is also to be said quite openly. This means that the factor for the holiday allowance for apprentices has been reduced, and in return, the apprenticeship compensation has been increased or expenses have also been increased among apprentices, so that there is no financial disadvantage. We've heard a lot about income today. I can only call you a number: An apprentice at the building earns €1 842 in the third year of teaching. In other words, we are trying to create appropriate incentives here by means of a high level of apprentice compensation, in order to get young people into the construction industry as well. The success of our measures also gives us the right thing. We have decided in this House in recent years much in the area of wage and social dumping, in the area of federal procurement law – in knowledge, the fight against unfair competition from abroad continues. That's what I'm standing for. We will never get tired of progress in this area, but I can tell you: These measures have succeeded in reducing the unemployment of construction in Austria by 10.5% in recent months. We really have declining unemployment rates in one of the most difficult sectors. We have created 2 900 new or additional jobs. We have 200 new Austrian companies on the market, which participate accordingly in the competition. You just have to say that. The number of older construction workers is increasing, the age of entry is increasing, and youth employment is also increasing. That is a lot of what we have achieved together with the various measures. I thank you for the very open and honest discussion on this novel in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and I hope that, as in the Committee today, there will be unanimous agreement on this. Thank you very much to all those who have contributed! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17425	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17446	Madam President. Minister! Yes, this is a bit of a herb-and-rove debate, as we have to deal with four very different requests under these agenda items, and many things have been postponed in the Committee – it has been the subject before – from which we are now discussing these requests. It is therefore difficult for spectators to understand what we are talking about. I would like to refer to a request from Mr Loacker on the unemployment insurance law. This concerns the rules on the availability of people who have been reported unemployed. We have also already explained in the committee and I am happy to say now that we will reject this request for a number of reasons which I can explain. On the one hand, it is a question of whether it is reasonable for people who are unemployed to go a long way to a job that is being taught them. For part-time workers, this is currently a one-and-a-half-hour journey in one direction, for full-time workers it is two hours away in one direction. The NEOS want to change this and want to introduce for part-time workers that in future they can drive two hours in one direction a day, spend time away, or have to, that is, be able to travel up to four hours if they are part-time. In the case of full - time employment, it is already three hours in one direction, that is, six hours a day away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In one direction, stands in the request – you can improve it. Three hours in one direction! - Well, then you'll improve it afterwards. [[Abg. Loacker shakes the head.]] In any case, it's too much, either way. I think that if you spend a day anyway at a part-time workplace and then you have to go so far – let's imagine, this is a single parent who has to look after her children alone or is responsible for her alone – then that is simply unacceptable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second one concerns another provision, namely that one should be left until the 10th century. If you have a disabled child, or if you have a disabled child, you only have to accept jobs – of course you can accept others – to the extent of 16 hours per week. Yes, I agree that 16 hours of weeks are few, that 16 hours of weeks probably a woman does not really help out of the poverty trap. It is not the desired thing about the job, but the problem is not this determination, but the problem is that there are currently few jobs for people, as we know. It would therefore be important to inculcate and see that you can provide these jobs. The other thing: There are also far too few childcare places, which then allow the women affected by them – usually women – to provide the appropriate childcare. [[Abg. Gisela Worm:... in July and August!]] So we'd rather turn on other screws first than on this one. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to say very quickly, because I am talking about women, that I am very, very important, and that has unfortunately been postponed in the Committee on Emergency Assistance and the calculation of partner income in emergency aid. This is a call for the popular desire of women from 1997 – that is next year 20 years ago! For 20 years now, we have been bringing people – usually women, but also men – who are suddenly dependent on their partner in emergency aid, into a situation in which they never wanted to come and which they did not deserve. I last spoke to a young woman who was unemployed at first, then got the emergency aid, and then said: I never want to experience again what I have experienced, that I have to ask my friend, with whom I live, if I can leave in the evening and if he gives me money. That's unbearable! Please do not delay this once again, but please decide that people in this situation are not dependent on the partner or the partner, and we are working together on it! I really don't think that's true anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17510	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17531	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Today we decide to make some important changes to the Civilian Vacation and Processing Act, and I believe that there are some really important innovations for construction companies as well as for construction workers. It was important to create legal certainty in this area and, above all, to find practical solutions, in particular with regard to the retroactive involvement of companies in the BUAG system. As a result of increased controls, it is increasingly noted that farms are already subject to the building workers' holiday and handling fund, but have not yet complied with their reporting requirements and are therefore not covered by the system. Here, a practical solution is implemented so that it is also possible to prevent legal circumvention. An important and very central step is the involvement of apprentices in the bad weather compensation system. Some 6,000 apprentices are affected by this positive measure. There are also changes in the area of holiday allowance, but there are also extra-tourist increases in the compensation of apprentices in some industries, which compensate for changes in the former. It should be noted that the agreement under this federal law is based on a comprehensive agreement at the social partners level. I believe that important steps are being taken here to simplify the administration, including the renewal of the bridge fee. To sum up, there are many positive measures, and this also explains unanimity. A positive thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17565	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17586	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The construction worker's holiday and handling law of course also belongs to those laws which contribute to stimulating unemployment, because the law has now grown far beyond its original purpose, to finance the holidays and work-off for the construction workers, and is thus co-financed with a lot of special solutions that are worsening the competitive situation of the entire industry. If overbridge money is paid in order to be able to send staff to retirement earlier, this can make the construction industry already, but it needs to know that it is damaging its own competitiveness. The National Council should not go beyond what the social partners have to do at the negotiating table, and thus stimulate unemployment in the construction process, which needs to be reduced again with other policy measures. Long-term unemployment is also a question of how attractive it is to persist in unemployment, and this, in our view, depends on the rules of visibility. But, Mrs Schwentner, there is a misunderstanding: What we want is to increase the visibility of the journey time per day and return to three hours for a full-time worker, i.e. one and a half hours per way. And if today people are pursuing a job – and there are enough commuters on the way to their job one and a half hours a day – then it is not understandable for them that the unemployed do not have to take on a job because it is one and a half hours away. They think I do it every day – and he can stay home and cash the money with the statement: No, that's too far! That's why we say that belongs extensively. And if you loosen the rules of visibility, you can also see an additional gate to get people out of unemployment, so that they are not unemployed for so long and do not develop into problems for the system and, in fact, for themselves. Now on the question of self-employed persons who are declared employees by the health insurance companies against their own will. It is in the heart of this – colleague Belakovich-Jenewein has done it – that it is a struggle for contributions. The checkouts fight for insurance contributions on the back of the insured. Self-employed people who want to work independently are declared employees by health insurance companies against their will and, swoop, they are no longer self-employed. We want to improve the legal status of those concerned. Whatever we want is that if someone reaches a self-employed income of €24 000 a year, he is entitled to remain independent if he wants him not to be requalified against his will. We need security for the self-employed who are engaged in business on their own decision. We have to make sure they're not delivered to the cash registers' arbitrarily. I understand that it does not fit into the world picture of some people here, that people do not want to be led by the Chamber of Workers, by the union or by the health insurance company. But you won't believe it. Such people are there, and they like to work and feel the work as joy and not as punishment, and they want to be self-employed. Clearly, it is part of the long-term objective: We need a common health insurance with the same contributions and the same benefits for all. And if we had that today, it wouldn't be a fight for the contributions and then you could save yourself this entire bureaucratic drama on the back of the insured. That is why I would like to ask you to agree to our request in the sense of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17661	Next speaker: Mr Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17683	Appreciate High House! I would like to refer to the request made by the Stronach team, which provides for a de facto abolition of the compensation allowance, which we naturally reject. The argument is that in our country, those people who are unfortunately unable to reach a sufficiently high own pension due to any employment biographies will receive a compensation allowance through the social security system. This is 882,78 € per month for individuals, fourteen times per year, and for families 1 323 €. And that's what you want. They abolish from the Stronach team with the argument that there are people who, as it were, plan to get a compensation allowance at some point that they plan to be at home with the children who are planning to work part-time so that they will then benefit from such a compensation allowance. Of course you're right: That costs 1 billion €! Of the € 18 billion we spend on the pension insurance system, € 1 billion will be lost. But this comes to those who really need it and, as I said, have had the wrong to have no regular working biography. What shocked me particularly in the committee was that the party that is always in favour of introducing a minimum pension of €1,200 has not lost any word on a request to protect the rights of the insured. There was no single word on the part of the FPÖ on this request! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's not true!]] Again to the difference. – The difference is the: The Stronach team says: instead of social benefits! Our answer to this is – and we, the coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP, have proved it impressively –: We have increased the compensation allowance for people who are 30 years in employment to € 1,000, and we have managed to make the billing of child rearing times reasonable, so that it is hopefully not possible to reach such low own pensions from home.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17729	Next, Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17751	Madam President. High house! Allow me, since the Education Code has been decided to also extend a thank you to my predecessor Rudi Hundstorfer. He has done significant preparatory work for this purpose. I would like to expressly mention this. Thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is a government template relating to the building workers' holiday and handling fund, and it is recognised how important it is for the social partners to be talking with each other in an industry. They have considered: What can be done in this sector, how can reasonable regulations be implemented? How can we contribute to the orderly course of action? I think that there has been a strengthening of legal certainty that the implementation has been improved. New groups have also been introduced, and new regulations have also been established for apprentices. It is important to me that this cooperation and the value of this social partnership act are fully realized here, and I thank you very much. in the case of all employees of the building workers' holiday and handling fund, they make a major contribution to the improved conditions for workers on Austrian construction sites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17793	Next speaker: Mrs Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17814	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vogl, I know that the compensation allowance in this country is something like a holy cow, and I tell you – that will be You probably wonder – it is also important that there is the compensation allowance. It is important that people who have a very low pension, but who have earned their own pension, get something in order to have a pension at a height from which they can live. But – and we know that too – the Court of Auditors is quite clear that the compensation allowance, as it is such an essential factor in social policy, needs a reform that needs a future strategy and a further development – especially in view of the fact that more and more people are pursuing part-time work or short-term work due to the employment conditions we have in our country, because many companies are wandering in this House due to the lack of economic policy. As a result of these conditions, more and more people will be able to benefit from the compensation allowance. Now I tell you where I see great need for action: This is where a person has paid for himself, because he has worked for a lifetime, and – you might call it so – because he has always had the luck of having a job, of producing his own pension at a very low level. Let's assume: 900 €! On the other hand, we have someone who has worked for just 15 years and is entitled to a compensation allowance – on average, 300 € – and who, as a compensation beneficiary, then receives numerous benefits, such as the exemption from broadcasting fees, a rental aid and many other exemptions granted by the countries, plus the heating allowance and much more. And at the end of the day, the person who has earned the pension through his own benefits has less than 100 or 150 € than the person who receives a compensation allowance. That's unfair in my understanding! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is the point on which we need to discuss: whether the persons involved in low pensions, which are just above the reference value of the compensatory allowance, should have a right to exemptions in many areas. [[Abg. Vogl: Just write it in!]] This is a subject that we need to talk about. And we have to think about it at all: How can we manage to settle companies? How can we boost the economy? Because only what we achieve can we distribute. We need to strengthen Austria's economic location so that many people can work for as long as possible and do not have short-term working conditions, over which they will almost stumble, as it is difficult for them to shape their future. In this sense, I ask you to: Let's put the sleeves on, 'cause it's man's trouble! Let us make sure that something happens in this area!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17868	Next speaker: Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17889	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment on Mr Loacker's request to amend the unemployment insurance law. An approach that is particularly evident is the one where it is thought to make the situation worse for the unemployed with children. This is an approach that we firmly reject. I'm sure there won't be any of that with us. I am also saying this because Mr Schwentner mentioned this issue earlier and pointed out that women in particular are affected. I mean, Mr Loacker has probably never been unemployed, he may be making other concerns, but he should remember that women who become unemployed are worried about their existence and despair about their situation. And here Mr Loacker has tabled a request to put on the thumb screws for these people. I say it quite clearly once again that we will not be able to do this, and I am glad that, apart from NEOS, all the political groups have seen it this way and that no majority has been able to do so. I would like to give two details to Mr Loacker, who is unfortunately not in the hall: The property was abolished in 1782, and slavery was abolished in Austria in 1812. I would recommend that he take note of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17923	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e17944	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about my request in item 7 on which it is about increasing the non-compulsory basic amount of € 857. Why? – A citizen addressed me and told me that the €857 is less than the minimum security, and he told me the following: I live on the German border, in Germany this non-fundable amount is €950. Now, as a border citizen on the German border, I know that in Germany shopping is much cheaper and housing prices are a little cheaper than in Vorarlberg or in much of Austria, and yet this non-fundable amount is higher there. And that also has a reason, and it is: Work is worth it! I should have more if I work than if I don't work. [[He was in favour of the Stronach team and the Abg. Doppler.]] If I do not now raise this indispensable basic amount, I will take the motivation for the citizen to bring in his labour force. We have a shortage of skilled workers in many areas, and the skilled worker is fleeing, so to speak, or he has to go to the minimum level of security so that he can live better, because with the promotions – you know what you get there – he can live better than when he works. That is why I am in favour of this proposal. That is why I do not understand why he has been rejected by the other parties, and I believe that perhaps you should think about it again, especially you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, in order to improve it. I would now like to address a case that was flattered on the desk a few days ago, and this is about maintenance stories. Of these are very vie- ..................................................................................................................................... Many family fathers have to pay for maintenance after divorce for the children and for the wife. And there someone from Vorarlberg has given me a case, and I have already put this in my hand to the Minister of Justice and I hope that something is going on there. This man I'm talking about earns €1,750 net as a skilled worker. He has three children for whom he has to pay a living, and he has to pay for his divorced wife's allowance, and for this he is deducted 1 120 € per month. He has an apartment – yet, but soon no more – for which he has to pay € 760, and € 40 he has to pay for electricity. Without this man having eaten any bites or his children can buy ice cream or anything else, he makes 170 € minus per month. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be if you go to work as a specialist, because with this I destroy the labour market! You have to think about what motivation this person needs to have to go to work. He said I'm doing it anyway. He is now going to a social housing project, where he might get a cheap apartment, a small room where he can exist half way away. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to think about the right of maintenance, because that is no longer understandable. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] We are destroying the basic basis of the labour market, which we would urgently need, and we are pushing it into minimum security, because there they are getting all the support that has already been given during the previous discussion. So there's something to happen. Mr Sozialminister, you too are on the train! It cannot be that the work is no longer worth working, so that one is forced into minimum security, and one can no longer make one's labour available to this state or to our businesses and is virtually prevented from working and paying into the social system. We produce social cases with such cases, and we strongly reject this from the Stronach team!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18016	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18038	Madam President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! To this government template, I would like to say first of all that there are substantial improvements for employees in the construction sector. The basis of this government proposal is actually an agreement between the social partners, and it shows that constructive discussions and very intensive negotiations within the social partners are very good results. I should like to thank my colleague, Beppo Muchich, who led the talks there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now deal briefly with item 5. It requires that, in the sense of the joint examination of wage-dependent taxes (GPLA) requalifications of self-employed to self-employed persons are not possible against the will of the persons concerned, provided that they generate an annual gross income of €24 000 for self-employment. Ladies and gentlemen! Regardless of a possible discussion about the aggregation of social security institutions, here are some principles from my side: In the field of social security, there is the principle of compulsory insurance. This shall enter into force on the basis of the relevant conditions, irrespective of the will of the person concerned. This means the creation of an insurance company. In the event of a breach of the principle of equal treatment for men and women, the Court of First Instance held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities had failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 85 of the EC Treaty. The legislator also assigns certain groups of persons to the corresponding social security bodies. Choices between insurance institutions would inevitably lead to deterioration for people at high risk, such as old and chronically ill persons. Young and healthy people would be recruited by the insurance carrier, old and sick people would be pushed to the edge of society. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is now about putting this item on the agenda to the vote. There will be no agreement from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18086	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18107	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On agenda item 7 concerning non-compulsory basic amount: This motion for a resolution by Mr Hagen clearly shows the urgent need for action in this area. The current non-posable basic amount of € 858 is simply too little, is no longer contemporary and belongs accordingly increased. In Austria, as we heard earlier, more and more people are affected by poverty. Many of them are unable to afford the livelihood or to finance it adequately. Not only are single parents affected by this, but also more and more young families, but also pensioners and part-time workers. Ladies and gentlemen! There are even people who can no longer afford living with full - time employment. It is therefore essential to increase this non-compulsory basic amount and adapt it to the demands of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18138	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18159	Madam President. Minister! I am speaking on the subject of ‘Increasing non-poverty income’. The cost of living increases compared to self-employed incomes in a non-representable order of magnitude. This results in an increasing number of persons who can only fulfil their payment obligations, if at all, conditionally. Executions on a base amount of 857 € now are the result. With this amount of € 857, the minimum cost for housing, operating costs, food et cetera is not eligible for funding. This, in turn, has resulted in further increasing downward development, thus a vicious circle. The persistently high and steadily increasing number of unemployed people also aggravate this situation massively. In most cases, the period of a pledge to the minimum of existence is to be served in the long term and most of the time in a hopeless manner. Further pledges are the consequence, and any court fees are over-covering and high-priced. It is undisputed that the economy suffers a high degree of damage due to pledges, with the persons required to be found in all ages and occupations. In many cases, a pledge to the minimum existence of €857 goes along with the loss of the apartment, so that the social state is finally demanded again. In the sense of increasing price increases, it is necessary to adjust the minimum of existence accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18195	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has now been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18217	Madam President. Federal Minister! Very briefly: Mr Vogl, you are right, I have not mentioned the compensation allowance today in my speech. However, we have talked about this in the committee and we have rejected it there. A few more words: It was not you, but actually the colleague Dietrich, who now praised this idea. – Mrs Dietrich, I do not think this idea is particularly good. I believe that the compensation allowance is something that concerns women in particular, and if women, which is often present, have collected only a few years for insurance benefits, this has many reasons – in most cases, it is child rearing times. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] If one wants to reform the compensation allowance, I would rather want it to go in the direction that it is calculated independently of the partner income. This would lead to an advantage for those concerned. That's what we could befriend ourselves with. Just as you imagine it – that it should be cut short and only for a few; however it is – we do not want it, because I do not think anyone who goes to work in this Republic is planning to have a low pension once. This is certainly not something someone makes with intent. This is a somewhat strange text, in which I can't quite understand how you're saying it can be a life planning. It can happen. It can also be like this: Many people, especially in the gastronomy, have the problem that they do not know at all that they are only registered with a small amount that they actually work more than what is the basis for insurance. These are all things that can cause the pension to be very low, and therefore we will not give our consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18266	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote, as always, on each of the Committee's proposals. Agenda item 3: The Federal Act, which amends the Construction Workers' Vacation and Processing Act, the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act, the Workers' Processing Act and other laws, together with the title and receipt in 1185 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. Who also agrees to this law in third reading? – In turn, this is unanimous, so this is also accepted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament Who agrees to this request? – That is the minority, so the request is rejected. Vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1221 of the supplements. Who agrees to this request? – This is largely accepted. Vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1222 of the supplements. I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, so the request is accepted. Agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1223 of the supplements. Who agrees? – In turn, this is the majority, so the request is accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1224 of the supplements. Who agrees? – This is the majority, so the request is accepted. [[17:04:04]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1150 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Establishment of the Bundesanstalt „KZ Memorial Site Mauthausen/Mauthausen Memorial“ (Memortemstättengesetz – GstG) (1228 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18397	We're coming to the 8th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. The first mention is made by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18425	Mr President. Minister! High house! Now there is a very sensitive law in front of us that we have to discuss and vote on. The Mauthausen Memorial has, in principle, taken a very positive development in recent years, and it would have been a great opportunity today to create a modern law here, which would also be the conditions of the 21st century. ==References== – Unfortunately, that is not the case. In this respect, I am not only referring to the criticism that we are presenting to Greens, but there is also massive international criticism. In this context, I am very pleased to welcome the Deputy Missionary of the Republic of Poland today, Mrs Mag. Szmigiel-Turley. Welcome to Parliament! [[General condolences.]] Like many other countries – the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Italy and so on – Poland has asked to take into account, if we create a law here, that for many outside Austria, for many outside Germany the square in Gusen, the so-called secondary camps in Gusen, which were originally also concentration camps and were also called so-called, is important, which is why we may include them in the name. In principle, I do not think that this is an unfair request, and I would have expected to be discussed at least, Minister. We discussed this in committee, but unfortunately a discussion did not happen. In this context, I would simply like to quote what is on the official website of the memorial. – Quote: “ Between 1938 and 1945, about 190.000 people from more than 40 nations were detained in the Mauthausen and Gusen concentration camps or in one of the external camps. At least 90,000 people were killed.” So here, on the official homepage, it is actually as named as the various prison organizations, but above all also the representatives of foreign states want. It is difficult for me to understand why this has not been taken into account. The following is also available elsewhere: “Up until the liberation of the Mauthausen/Gusen concentration camp, more than 40 external camps have been built”, and so on and so on. – So you see, that would be a very important reason: because this is so noted on the official homepage of the memorial. In this context, I should also like to remind you that more people have been killed in the Gusen camps – there have been several camps in Gusen – than in the so-called Mauthausen camp. So, of course, that would have been important, and I hope, Mr Minister, that the last word has not yet been spoken in this context and that we can still discuss it. This is not an unfair demand, and I think it would be worth dealing with the appropriate initiators. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, and I would like to quote again: What is the purpose of this law? – It is in the explanatory notes to the law: It should be established ‘an efficient, content-dependent, unbureaucratic and internationally comparable body, which will continue to be managed under economic and parliamentary control of the Federal Government’. This objective will not live up to this law! Ladies and gentlemen, we have a number of points which we would all have welcomed if they had been implemented but not implemented. To the objectives which cannot be achieved: The existing dependency structure, Mr Minister, by you, by the Minister of the Interior, will not de facto be eliminated. It is still true that it is you who order the director that it is you who occupy the leading positions within the memorial. The board of trustees does not even have the right to vote on it. – Yes, what is that structure in the 21st century? Century where a man or a woman – I think of your predecessor – has the saying? That can't be! Here we want more democracy! And since it was said in the committee that everyone was for it, I can already quote from the review procedure. The intermediaries, who do an excellent job in Mauthausen, see this differently and say that this law de facto – I quote – “does not aim at any outsourcing.” So there is also strong criticism. There is also strong criticism from our side of the proporz structure that still exists. This memorial, as it is called, is – I'm sorry! – a proporzmemorial, because it is still ensured that red and black have voting rights in the board of trustees and can send representatives. Even here, I would say, it would have been urgent for us to send independent scientists and not officials from the ministries to this board of trustees who are still bound to do so. This also doesn't fit into the 21st century. ==References== We have made even further proposals: We wanted a foundation solution, we wanted to orient ourselves to major museums, at large commemorative sites abroad, for example at the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial. By the way, we also find the double name: There, too, is not only the so-called "tribal camp" Auschwitz, but also the "destruction camp" in the name of Birkenau. I could now mention a number of other points, such as the chronic sub-financing of this memorial, which will not be eliminated even under the new law, despite otherwise loud promises. Still, the responsible year after year must beg for the money, and this is simply unworthy of a modern memorial. I conclude with a reference to the Memorial Papst, so he is called in Germany, Jörg Skriebeleit, the head of the Memorial in Flossenbürg. He was in Vienna three months ago, and when he was shown the draft, he said with a smile on his face, that's a typical Austrian solution – and, ladies and gentlemen, be assured that he didn't mean it positively. You've done a great chance. I hope that discussions can be held here in the future so that we can come to a solution worthy of Austria. It is the central memorial of the Republic, and we must find another solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18522	Mr Mag. Gerstl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18543	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! First of all, to my previous speaker: Mr Walser, you are, I believe, an educational politician, and education has something to do with science and seriality for me – and I have now missed it with you. I am really, very sorry, because the introduction you said was perfectly correct: This is a very sensitive issue. As a counter-pollution to the Greens, I would particularly like to highlight the NEOS: The NEOS have criticised individual points in the Committee as you do, Mr Colleague, but with them the whole for the Republic, for commemorative work, agrees today. If you had real interest in commemorative work and sustainable security, you would agree today, I really must say that to you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today we can be proud of Parliament: We can be proud of Parliament because today this Parliament is meeting the first legal safeguarding of this monument of Mauthausen/Gusen and of all around 40 external camps. That is what we can highlight positively today. That is what you criticize – with the opposite being the case: The Minister of the Interior can no longer decide on his own in future how he supports the Mauthausen concentration camp memorial. [[Abg. Walser: The leading positions, I said!]] On the contrary: It shall decide upon the Board of Trustees, under the consultation of the Scientific and International Advisory Council, Mr. Col., and the Board of Trustees shall decide on the commemorative concept. Just this curatorium! And on the basis of this memorial concept, the managing director has to conduct his business. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Walser.]] Mr Walser, you can't put it up better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This House deserves a applause, as do the employees of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, who have come to this serious solution in years of small work with the victim associations, with the local people, with the employees. Thank you very much for this sustainable memorial work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Because you said, Mr Walser, that the Memorial would not be financially secured: This too is very important to me. If you look at this law on financing, it is in § 4 that the Republic of Austria is obliged in the future to grant annual financial grants to this concentration camp memorial – adapting annually! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Even for emergencies is provided in this law! [[Abg. Walser:... then taken out! In the design it was still inside, why did you take it out?]] In addition, Mr. Walser, this Bundesanstalt is given a certain independence – a independence in so far as it can take third-party funds, and a independence in that one considers them with gifts and that one can also give this Bundesanstalt inheritances. [[Abg. Walser: Which must then be delivered to the Minister!]] This means that this memorial will be better secured in the future than it had ever been secured before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Walser.]] The law also ensures greater independence in this memorial, namely through an independent curatorium, which has a Supervisory Board. – They spoke of Proporz. I would like to point out to you what the law says: “The Bundesanstalt has a non-profit public role to play in scientific, pedagogical, cultural and memorial matters.” The fact that the Ministry of Science is involved is therefore that the Ministry of Education is involved and that therefore the Federal Chancellery is involved as a unit responsible for culture, understands itself! [[Abg. Walser: I prefer to be a specialist!]] That's what the slugs think, if he thinks that's proporz. This is a matter of content, here is about sustainability, and I think we can be very, very proud of the fact that we are legally anchoring this commemorative work as part of our democratic self-understanding, because in memory and in memory no one is to exceed us.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18675	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18696	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the Memorial Act and the foundation of the Bundesanstalt “KZ Memorial Centre Mauthausen/Mauthausen Memorial”, we today make a clear commitment as National Council to the antifascist commemorative and educational work and take over, as the colleague Gerstl has already mentioned, both political and budgetary responsibility for the commemorative work in Mauthausen, in Gusen, as well as in all other almost 50 former camps in Austria. In these places of inhumanity, horror and death, some 190,000 people were detained by the Nazi system between 1938 and 1945 under inhuman conditions, forced to work and nearly 90,000 men, women and children murdered by the Nazis. To the story: Almost 70 years ago, the Soviet military authority of the Republic of Austria transferred this site with the requirement to build a place of memory, and today we shift this responsibility on the basis of a legal basis from the Ministry of the Interior to a structure with a professional management, with a board of trustees, with scientific advisory boards and the Forum Mauthausen. Mr Walser, we discussed this in the committee, and we had a debate yesterday with the Ambassador of the Visegrád States: It is true that the Polish side, in particular, wanted to add the name Gusen. However, there is also the opinion of the International de Mauthausen Committee, in which it is opposed and advocated for equality between all secondary and labour camps throughout Austria. I thought it was fair to light both sides in the argumentation. The result of yesterday's ambassador's debate was that the current representative of the Visegrád Group cordially congratulated us on this legal measure. Mr Walser, you've been sitting next to me, and the other colleagues have heard this as well as I have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is also a good opportunity to say thank you to all those who have been working for generations of dedicated memorials who have managed to make a monument a place of mediation, learning and warning. I would particularly like to thank the employees of the Mauthausen Committee, the survivors who have worked as witnesses of the time, the Austrian and international victim associations and the many young people who have made their memorial service in these memorials. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How current antifascist work is today shows the Constitutional Protection Report, which I now cannot quote for reasons of time. I would recommend reading the current developments. In addition, communication comes into the social media, where hatred and denunciation become a daily business, but also an unacceptable political style, which led to the political murder of colleague Cox in the UK a few days ago. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to dedicate the decision-making of this law to a great woman, namely, the national councillor except Rosa Jochmann, who had been imprisoned by Austrofascism, by the Nazis in the Ravensbrück concentration camp, who there gave their fellow colleagues courage and confidence and gave her entire political life in the service of the warning, the Enlightenment and democracy. I'm sure Rosa Jochmann would be very happy about today's decision. “We will never forget!” – Today we will underline this promise with a concrete political decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18759	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18781	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! We will vote in favour of this law. The importance of this memorial is undisputed, the obligation to maintain is equally undisputed. We have had criticism in the Committee, and we may have to distinguish two things: on the one hand, the formal process of this exclusion and, on the other, the content. The content may not even necessarily be our thing here in Parliament, especially if one wants to think a little bigger in this context and go through an international foundation. What have we criticized, and indeed also in the process of disseminating? – That the operations are now deprived of parliamentary control a bit. Even if The Court of Auditors sees this as different and believes that the limitation of parliamentary control is a particularly serious disadvantage, as is the lack of public prosecutor control. Furthermore, we have also criticised the composition of the board of trustees, not only in the sense of the proportion, but also in terms of the social partners, which in Austria represents a certain anachronism and a certain degree of immodernity. In terms of content, we would have wanted more independence, an internationalization. This does not mean that one has to give up budgetary responsibility or responsibility for maintaining in this sense in any way, one only separates the formal from the content. We did not end up with the very big solution, but perhaps with an interim solution. However, we do not conclude any further development and hope that we will be able to discuss the content further, the criticism will also be heard, and that we will act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18823	Mr Hagen is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18844	Mr President. Federal Minister! I don't understand the criticism of the Greens, I have to say quite clearly. We will clearly agree to this bill by the Stronach team. I think it is important that Mauthausen – which is a term for every Austrian – is still preserved as a memorial and is thus extended so that people can see what should never happen again. Ladies and gentlemen! We had a meeting yesterday with the four Visegrád ambassadors and talked about this issue – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Weninger. I have written down a few words and I would simply like to explain why I do not understand the criticism of the Greens. The speaker of the Visegrád Group said they were well involved from the beginning, we had done good work, they gave us 99.9% support, it was a good discussion process. Mr Walser, you yourself have been sitting there, you know, you have not said anything more. The only thing that the ambassador from Poland has still stimulated – and that has already been said here – was that he would like these five letters, namely casts, and a line between Mauthausen and Gusen. That would have been the wish, but Poland could also live well with the present situation. I think that's actually all that says. This is not an Austrian parliamentarian, it is someone who sees it from the outside, who has been involved, and I think that is good. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law also provides that revenue may be used for the operation of this memorial. I find this positive in the sense of sparingness for which we are also responsible to the taxpayer. The money earned there, if it is not needed for the preservation, can also be used in the area, so that no surplus is generated. That the taxpayers would then have to get back for it and then buy something somewhere, I wouldn't like that. I like this regulation. Auditing the Court of Auditors is also a real step. What struck me a little bit: that the union had to play a role in the Supervisory Boards and Advisory Boards again. Once again, it can be seen that the government parties are not quite able to take off the proporz. Even there, the propor is still managed in such a way that each party has its representatives sitting there. But these are little things. In general, the law is as it is, all right, and therefore the Stronach team will be happy to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18890	Now Mr. Federal Minister Mag has himself. Sobotka. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18911	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that a very important step has been taken with this extension of the Mauthausen memorial. I should like to thank you in advance for the intensive discussion. On the one hand, it shows the international responsibility we have taken over by including this location in a very special way in the series of major memorial sites of Germany and Poland. We have tried to find a compromise in the discussion on the name – you can bring in a fore and resistor. I believe that a compromise has been reached with the last row listed in Appendix 1 of all the external camps so far, including others who did not agree to the addition of a name. The question was also asked again and again: Why don't you go into a foundation? – In Germany, ladies and gentlemen, one has set up foundations, where one has to constantly rethink. Finally, foundations cannot provide a real foundation to maintain the foundation's purpose, even in the matter of parliamentary control. With the foundation, the Republic gives the responsibility almost entirely out of hand. The Bundesanstalt is, I believe, a proven model in Austria. Many of our organizations have been distributed as a federal organisation and have proved themselves to be excellent in the market, and have also proved to be excellent in networking internationally. The memorial has changed considerably to this day, out of the situation. From the Russian administration to the public of the Republic in 1947, it has been shown that it has already destroyed substantial parts of the former Mauthausen extermination and concentration camp. Thus, it is not a historical monument, but a memorial of the special kind, where one has very soon gone about also doing mediation work, which was observed at the beginning by the survivors and by the next generation. Today, this mediation work is doing a broad team of intermediaries in various forms, and I think that not only the mediation, but also the research work – especially when we remember the words of Elie Wiesel, who has just died recently: that if we eliminate the memory of the dead of this mass murder and of the crime of the Nazi era, we kill them a second time – it is a commitment that research work has just become a very essential one. We can – and I ask everyone to rethink their voting behaviour – be proud of what the scientists, the intermediaries and finally the management do there. And through the secure teaching has I believe that the financial responsibility for the future is also very, very serious. Consider the long history of this memorial! It has been shown that in recent years with the visitor centre and especially with the space of the names not only the victim was thought, but that this also clearly expresses that it is an individual, very personal reminder and memory that can be perceived there. There may also be different opinions about the different interpretations, but this is a larger whole of the Republic. It is about a larger whole, which lies in our common responsibility. The individual but rather different evaluations – I do not want to call it different – will not really allow for a unanimous decision-making of the National Council. That this should not be an end station now, but rather a further development, has already been expressed by my previous speakers. I believe that if there is to be a lively development, then this federal organization – compare it with the other federal institutions – offers a way to accompany this further development positively. I would like to ask you once again for this great commonness in this great responsibility, which we have in particular vis-à-vis our generation today, when it comes to democratically opposing extremist tendencies. I would ask you to fulfil this obligation. In this sense, I am pleased with the discussion and I would like to ask once again for the adoption of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18966	This is what Mr Prince has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e18988	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am allowed to make the following request at the beginning – the final background is the amendment of the Federal Ministerial Law with 1. July 2016 –: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that it is right and right to say that it is a really slender law, which fully meets and meets the requirements, both nationally and internationally. The establishment of a federal institution is really a path towards the future. The Federal Ministry of the Interior also guarantees the corresponding security, for example the economic base. The exchange with other commemoratives has already been mentioned by previous speakers. Mauthausen, the Memorial of Mauthausen, is ultimately a place of commemoration. It is about learning from the event at that time that we also convey valuables and values. One might also say that it is about prevention, prevention work,: Be the beginnings! The communities of the region, such as Mauthausen, Langenstein, St. Georgen an der Gusen, have merged into the region of consciousness. The staff at the Mauthausen Memorial really do excellent, valuable and good work. I sometimes have the opportunity to attend the liberation celebrations, which are always in May, and may therefore be held briefly on the occasion of the liberation of the 15th century. May come to speak in Mauthausen. I can truly respect the chairman of the Mauthausen Committee, Willi Mernyi, for his statement on the motto of international solidarity. Respect, he said perfectly in three sentences what is necessary! But I also heard the Secretary-General of Amnesty International, Heinz Patzelt, on the day before that. In Gusen, a group of people is doing truly valuable work – in the name of Mr. Haunschmied or Mrs. Martha Gammer – but with the statement of Mr. Secretary-General Patzelt, I really have a problem. No sentence on international solidarity, which is required in connection with the movements of refugees! No sentence, but only criticism of Austria, Germany and Sweden! That's really too little. If you're like me, for example, on 15. May had the opportunity to follow the presentation of these 85 000 names and especially the biographies after the liberation ceremony in the room of the names – three of them were told or reported in advance; one of them was a survivor who reported that his father had died in Mauthausen – if you hear such a thing and perhaps are in it, you can only really ask the Green Group to ask me to jump over their shadows and to vote for it because it is necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19057	The amendment tabled by Mr Principality is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19108	Next word: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19130	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said: International solidarity was the theme of this year's liberation celebration in Mauthausen. This time the course of the liberation celebration was also reversed, one has not celebrated this common liberation, but also symbolically this joint extract. You can thank Willi Mernyi and his committee, all his employees, all the NGOs he works with, quite simply, quite rightly. I can only mention it again: ==References== ==References====External links== The Soviet military authorities have given the Mauthausen concentration camp into the care of the Republic of Austria. We have committed ourselves to this, and today we actually have the opportunity to lay the legal basis for this commitment for Austria. Mr Walser, I do not agree with the Foundation's idea, because we know the situation at the Foundations: There we cannot look at parliamentarians and question nothing. I am convinced that this is a good variant with the construction of the Bundesanstalt with a managing director, a board of trustees, the scientific and the international advisory board. The Bundesanstalt has a scientific, pedagogical and cultural commemorative task which it has to fulfil in a non-profit and public way. Due to the national and international importance of society, state and education, Mauthausen is a centre in Europe, a centre of commemoration in Europe. I can only mention some of the tasks of this Federal Institute: Prevention against national socialist re-activities is one of the most important measures; the Federal Institute also has the task of conducting scientific and pedagogical conferences and promoting cooperation between national and international associations and memorials. I should also like to speak briefly about yesterday's meeting with the ambassadors of the Visegrád states, where His Excellency Lorkovsky also said that there was good work that they were very, very well involved and it was a good discussion process. And the most important thing, even if casting is not in the headline, is that Mauthausen, with all its up to 50 outer camps, secondary camps and labour camps, remains the centre of an extermination system within Europe as a memorial. It is our task to keep this international culture of memory, which has worked very positively with Poland since 2000, in the sense of never-forgetting.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19170	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19193	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! With today's decision to the Memorial Law, we certainly set a positive milestone in commemorative work and historical communication regarding the atrocities of the Nazi regime. I think we are all called upon to do so in a variety of ways. I myself am from the Mühlviertel, where this memorial, this memorial is in Mauthausen, and I was at a theater performance a few days ago about the Nazi criminal Adolf Eichmann. It is already significant and also disturbing to see how concerned such descriptions make the population, how important this historical communication is and, above all, that this is very diverse among students and that the students are involved in this. I believe that the Republic of Austria, we in Parliament have the responsibility to do this commemorative work and to create the appropriate structures. With the Memorial Act and the establishment of the Bundesanstalt „KZ Memorial Site Mauthausen/Mauthausen Memorial“ we take a very important step. My previous speakers also spoke a lot about the objective of establishing a professional museum company with extensive history communication. It is important, and this has often been said, the structure, the international involvement with the International Advisory Council, the Scientific Advisory Board and the Board of Trustees. I think it is very important to put this on a sufficiently broad basis. I would like to express my express thanks to the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior – many previous speakers have already done so – for the fact that the process that led to this Bundesanstalt was set up in such a professional and broad and participative way. I was there yesterday in this debate with the ambassadors of the Visegrád states, who unisono congratulated us on how we put this process up, and they also stressed that the involvement of the victim states and the victim organisations was very broad, very positive. They insist and ask to continue this good process. The question of naming was also raised there, and my predecessor, Mr Lueger, has already pointed out: It is important not only to them, but also to them, that all the secondary camps are meant by this memorial. They have asked us to stress this once again in Parliament; we are doing so, as it is clearly stated in the annex to this law that Mauthausen and all the secondary camps are meant by it. I am convinced that we are taking a very positive step. The process was exemplary, and we are really taking a positive step – thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19237	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 1150 of the supplements. Mr Amon, Mr Pendl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of Parliament Amon, Pendl, Members of Parliament have an amendment concerning § 8 para. 1 introduced. Who agrees to this request? – This is unanimously accepted. The vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt, will be taken in the form of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to vote in third reading to give me a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:44:29]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1151, p._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Security Police Act, the EU Police Operations Act and the Arms Use Act 1969 (Preventions-Novelle 2016) (1229 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19307	Now we're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. First speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19331	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can do it very briefly. We have discussed this intensively in committee. There is some reasonable thing in this law, and I will not go into it in detail. I would just like to ask you – I obviously did it in vain in the Committee – perhaps I am now doing better – to consider a specific story: Once again, it is about the Police State Protection Act, which the representatives of the Freedom Party and we brought to the Constitutional Court by means of a third complaint in a kind of parliamentary emergency defence community, and we assume with good, not just legal, that this law is completely repealed. Instead of waiting for or looking at how to do this better, a part of the police state protection is now included in the Security Police Act, thus extending an unhappy construction of the Police State Protection Act in the Security Police Act – and I would like to tell you this specifically. Imagine, a simple uniformed police officer somewhere in the country stops a car and normally performs a vehicle control. It records the data of the vehicle owner and handlebar and returns the message via the computer: Is mentioned in the State Protection Database; please report that it is going through here! – The police officer will clearly refund this report; but he is one of tens of thousands of officials who suddenly – and this is the new one in this law – experience: The gentleman sitting in the car is in the terrorist database! – how to sum up the popular and not implausible. Imagine that this is not happening in the city of Vienna, but it is happening in a small community in the country – then it is assumed that the police officer knows the handlebar. And the advantage, the alleged advantage, that in this quick ECIS message nothing but: Is stored in the state protection database, please report!, in it, suddenly proves to be a disadvantage, as the police do not know that he may be in it only because he is suspected of being a candidate of violent football fans under the Police State Protection Act, he could once post a hatred – because it is about such offences too – or he could profile himself as a co-runner of violent football fans in the future. These are the offences that it is all about, not to mention radical animal protectionists and so on. And then we talk about him, and then we say, Hey! Hey! – Mr Weninger, I am willing to tell you a lot now – I have some time – about the story: [[Abg. Wenninger: The police keep telling you this?]] A case is pending, and a case concerns us in Parliament, in which, for private reasons, to spy out its predecessor to his current partner in life, an institution in Carinthia looks into the data of social security and can be found out what he thinks about it. – Yes, it always happens, and there is always abuse. We also know the cases in the field of state protection. Our task in the Committee on the Interior and in the plenary session of the National Council is not to make such abuse possible at all; therefore, I am in favour of what is really about terrorism, the strip official says in the field of traffic control: Yes, Hoppla! – Yes, it makes sense, for there was such a case – and this was obviously the occasion – in which, as was later pointed out, terrorists were stopped on their way to Western Europe and this report could not be passed on to the foreign departments. – But then we write in: terrorist crimes, and not all that is contained in the Police State Protection Act. I do not want a consequence of a sloppy legal formulation – without any evil intention – is that people suddenly get into the reputation of being terrorists. This can not only damage the reputation, especially in the countryside and especially in small communities. We owe it to people that if we fill as sensitive databases as the police state protection database, we are doing so carefully that abuse is as impossible as possible. That's what we tried to do. The Minister of the Interior has, I must say, taken this very seriously, but unfortunately we have not succeeded in rehabilitating this point in short post-negotiations. That is one of several points why we cannot agree to this novel – unfortunately, I say. I assume that a colleague of ours will mention further points. This point is enough for me to say: The protection of citizens from the abuse of their data by individual police officers is more important to us than a sloppy law that could have looked much better after longer treatment in the National Council. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last sentence on this matter, Mr Federal Minister, will you consider one of the following: From the Police State Protection Act to the Security Police Act, in recent years we have received some legalistically so badly made laws in the National Council that there are only two possibilities: Either you finally deliver us better laws, then we will pass through with short processing times, or we will take a little more time to make, in part, cruelly bad laws of the Ministry of the Interior acceptable and constitutional-compliant laws. If you do not decide for the first, we will have to talk seriously about whether we do not jointly in the National Council for the second. I know I have at least there in Otto Pendleinen safe allies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19396	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19418	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For some time, I had the hope that Mr Pilz would enter a kind of constructive phase now that we have experienced an extremely constructive phase in almost two years of negotiations on the State Protection Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] I can quote mushroom here, which has been meant in Parliament's debate: I have never failed so successfully – because so many points have been included from the opposition into the State Protection Act. [[Abg. Pillow: Yes!]] That is why I find it very disappointing that you have opposed the entire law to the Constitutional Court. So you also consider all the points you have negotiated to be unconstitutional; and that is already a bit strange. It is also not that we now anchor these things, which we do not have in the State Protection Act, in the Security Police Act and in the corresponding amendments, but quite the contrary: A number of measures we are now taking are, of course, also answers to the current situation, which in particular concerns the issues of sexual assaults that have occurred. They know that this is related to the DNA samples that can be taken, with the bans that can be pronounced, with the corresponding databases. Mr Pilz, one thing I would like to say is that it is not our approach at all, and I also have the impression that most of the groups here in the House do not see it as you do, that it is necessary to protect those drivers from the small community you are talking about, who are being stopped by the police officer who knows him anyway, as you say, and who then still looks at the ECIS and suddenly gets a note from the state protection. It is not a matter of protecting primarily the one who may commit a serious crime, but of protecting everyone else from that. So that's a little bit of a wrong world you're arguing about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say very clearly what offences this is about, because this is about very serious offences: The issue of membership in a terrorist association is about terrorist crimes; it is about terrorist financing; it is about training for terrorist purposes; it is about the guidance to commit a terrorist crime; it is about money laundering; it is about high treason and attacks against the state; it is about anti-state connections. So if these are not points, ladies and gentlemen, in which the executive must have the opportunity – and there is no more – to see at least a hint in the ECIS to make nothing but to give a message to the appropriate authority if that is no longer possible and that should be a problem, Mr. Pilz, then it is really a wrong world; I really want to say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is a well-depleted template and that proportionality is everywhere. I also have the impression that after a four-week review, which has also taken place, one cannot at all talk about the fact that this bill had not been properly treated. It is not a law of Pentecost, it is a well thought out, well-out law, according to the law of proportionality. I would be pleased if the Greens considered this again and did not make the same mistake as in the previous decision-making process, namely to be against it again.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19475	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19499	Mr President. Minister! The so-called Prevention Novelle concerns three laws in which there are to be amendments: the Security Police Act, the EU Police Operations Act and the Weapons Use Act. The police state protection law has already been discussed in detail by several speakers, since I do not want to stand up to say something about it. We are talking here about prevention, which is why it also means prevention novelle, which is also an important cornerstone of things that can be regulated within a bundle of measures, including, of course, things like youth work, deradicalisation shotlines, prevention work in prisons, integration et cetera, et cetera and, of course, the police state protection law almost in its entirety, which makes it possible to identify and intervene before a act is committed, that is, prevention – that is, prevention – affects fundamental rights through monitoring. This law entered into force this week, we do not have the opportunity to make a third complaint. We have made a number of requests for repair – four in number – which will soon be made in the Committees. But back to the novelle: Here, too, we see some points that we welcome. For example, there is a need to mention security in the official buildings, with regard to the fact that no weapons are carried in premises, including the Ministry of the Interior; there is, of course, no reason to let someone fight around with weapons. It is also justified to refuse the entry into force of any convicted person, after all, this measure also serves the safety of officials. In principle, the reporting obligation to clarify standards sounds like a good idea, according to a preventive measure. There are dangerous persons, that is, who have a potential to be dangerous in the future; these can be taught after this innovation. Unfortunately, however, this is impossible for fundamental and practical reasons, because the teaching is actually presupposed by illegal conduct and the teaching is undoubtedly also a penalty, and this contradicts the presumption of innocence. In other words, this measure cannot be decided at all. It is practical that the performers of this teaching probably do not in most cases have the necessary legal knowledge for such an education, so there is a lot of training to follow in order to prepare the relevant officials for this task. To this end, no teaching machinery is to be created here, which means that people are temporarily pulled out of traffic, just to teach them so that they cannot be present elsewhere. Of course, it is acceptable to point out that dangerous persons from the residential environment are at risk, including the school area and the childcare facilities, sports events and so on. The problem is that general aggressive behaviour can be avoided in the future, even if it does not hinder official action. This is problematic, it is very far-reaching and can be interpreted arbitraryly. One point that we certainly cannot agree with is the tightening of the rules on interference of public order. So far, there has been a particularly reckless conduct of the perpetrator, and the new regulation is now intended to make the legitimate nuisance the criterion of criminality. This is far too vague, the Constitutional Legal Heinz Mayer says that a standard in criminal law must be “so clearly formulated that I can align my behaviour accordingly”. These imprecise wordings ultimately lead to the restriction of personal freedom by way of a fee, in two ways: on the one hand, by officials who can interpret these very vague formulations very arbitrarily; on the other hand, of course, also by those who are not able to align their conduct properly and are perhaps too intimidated, although the action is far from criminality. So prevention sounds good, but if it slips into the field of surveillance and intimidation, then that's certainly wrong. We have three legislative amendments here, there is a desire for a separate vote; we will agree with two of them, but this is not one point.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19554	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19575	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the beginning of the debate on this SPG-Novelle, let me thank the police not only personally, but also as an officer of the Committee on the Interior. We always have an intense discussion when it comes to rights, equipment and money for the police. We have experienced – or have to experience – a few days ago, how quickly something happens, which is often impossible to imagine, and I believe that exactly at this hour, the survivors of one colleague, but also the members of the badly injured colleague, must simply be our compassion and memory. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to discuss differently in committee: Whenever it is about security, it is about improving, on the one hand, for the service of the police, on the other, for the Austrians – because for these we do – and that is because we do not only take legislative measures, but also to fulfil what is always required – I pointed out to the opposition address at the last meeting, Mr Amon – and we manage and decide to do so, then you vote against it. I can't understand that very slowly anymore. Mr Hagen, I believe that the safety of human life must be in the foreground, because one should not play any partisan games; that is at least my access. I hope that we will not only respond, because there are still some points that have been open for a long time in terms of equipment – I do not want to do so now – but also as regards the regulation, if someone is injured or even killed: How can you better provide them? – These are rules that are easy to imagine out of fairness, because I believe we are talking about those people who use their lives for our state, for Austrians in the truest sense of the word. We simply have to show the flag, and I will now really try to bring these open points to the realization as soon as possible. But let me also say to this novel, dear Peter Pilz – I do not want to repeat what Mr Amon said – that in reality we could easily have agreed as last time. In the post-negotiation process, we have been sitting for a very long time – the Minister has invited – and we are eating together with the experts. A compromise is often said, so far as we are, and then you approach – but why it doesn't come to a conclusion, I leave that behind. I'm glad you said: In general, the direction of impact is right. I would ask you to read the minutes of what has been done in this House on this speaker's desk. For God's sake, one is stopped, it's not so long ago, and no man knows it's a terrorist suspect! That's what we've been discussing here for hours. [[Abg. Pilz: Will happen again!]] Now there's a measure, and that's going to be broken again. Pretty slowly I wonder what we are doing when it comes to such normal processes around the world. I think it's right that we do it. But above all, I would like to say one thing: We have a long discussion, in fact, a multi-annual discussion behind us as regards preventive measures, I just do not have the time to admit it now. I'd rather, it's something completely amical by the police before it comes to a criminal record. If we already criticize this, I wonder: How, then, should we try to regulate something at the human, at the social level? However, I would also like to congratulate women because I can remember the discussion; I was very committed to it. I also took the floor at the time when we said that we were not only trying to enforce the right of exit in the living room, but also trying to extend it to the school and kindergarten. That's a real step. We know from the experience that this is necessary. We also know, however, that the advanced investigative powers, as far as DNA and the like are concerned, are important in sexual offences. All these stories – that was a whole catalogue, which also involved women very strongly – are regulated this time, and I think that in the total this is a proper novel, a good novel. The only mistake of beauty – I say it again – is that in these areas such discussions have to be held again and again and again and that the unfortunately God is overshadowed this time by such a sad occasion. I thank all the police again respectfully; and I really invite you that in the security field we will conduct the discussions differently in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19624	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19645	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! We all have to experience that violence is constantly increasing in our society. As Mr Pendl has already mentioned, last Saturday we were brought back to the ground of reality and we had to find painfully that a 23-year-old police officer had to leave his life in service. We all agree with Mr Pendl's condolences. We are all very sorry. Because of this very existing danger of increasing violence, this novelle was obviously also necessary. As a point, for example, I only mention safety in official buildings. Given that office buildings and authorities can be a priority objective of terrorist attacks, it has been decided that persons, both parties and other non-participants, can be subject to security checks, whether they carry weapons with them; and if they refuse to be investigated unjustly, there is the possibility of turning them away. As a further point, I would like to briefly address Article 2 on EU Police Operations Act, which also includes a change that may help or help to limit the freedom of movement of terrorists, let us say. In the SIS, the Schengen Information System, about 8,000 foreign terrorists, foreign terrorists, have been sent to campaign. This number is terrifying. With this measure, namely that they can be recognized or reduced by identity documents, and with this novelle it will also be possible to take them off for invalidally declared documents abroad, one is able to limit the freedom of movement of these people, of these dangerous persons. I would now like to refer to the special powers to prevent radicalisation and extremist-motivated crimes, so that I mean the threat to deradization. The basic idea is based on the experience gained in preventing racist-motivated crimes at major sporting events. It has been seen that this measure, namely that one can invite these perpetrators to teach them, not only in Austria, but also in France and England, has been successful. That is exactly the reason why one has decided to apply this measure even to people who may go in a religious or ideological way in the wrong direction, who are motivated to commit crimes. Now I would like to refer briefly to the comments made by Mr Alm: I am not of the opinion that teaching is not possible, because the text of the law states that, on the basis of previous or certain facts, which must be there, it is necessary to estimate whether these persons pose the risk of a constitutional attack within the meaning of the Police State Protection Act. It has also been pointed out, in particular, that persons who have, for example, committed multiple administrative violations by spreading national socialist ideas or by violating the badge law or the symbol law can be taken into consideration and that there is also the possibility of deradiating. For the reason that the officials are unable to do so: As far as I know, it was also assured by the Minister that officials were specifically trained for these tasks. I think that they will also have the necessary sense of fineness and judge the situation correctly. Now I would like to say the following: I believe, in principle, that there should be nothing untry to prevent violence and that it is therefore desirable to take new ways. As a new way, I also see this novelle. I am also firmly convinced that it is not only a matter of rejecting right-wing violence, but also of fighting politically motivated violence from the left – every violence – no matter where it comes from. [[Abg. Pendl: Any violence!]] [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Men's Force!]] I'm saying that for some reason. I am also thinking of the members of the Black Block, who are constantly aware of chaos through acts of violence and the spread of chaos. I just hope that the competent authorities, the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism and also the Landesamt are not blind to one eye, so to speak, but that they keep all their eyes open. In this context, I also believe that such measures must be evaluated after a certain period of time. I think it'd be good if you said, A year later, we look at what this provision has brought and whether the measures used are in relation to the effects they show. It remains to be hoped, therefore, that with these provisions we will have a useful approach to combat violence or to exaggerate violence. Finally, I would just like to refer to the possibility of police officers to reject people who have a behavior that is appropriate to cause a legitimate nuisance. I think police officers are very well able to do this because of the professional experience they have. Above all, you yourself, ladies and gentlemen, would notice – and you are not trained police officers – if people, for example, were to collapse on the walkway and force other people to enter the roadway; then you will know very well that this would be a case where this new rule of law can be applied. I am convinced that this legislative novel is a step in the right direction, that it is also wanted by the executive; therefore we will agree to this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19700	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19722	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Maintaining public order, peace and security, these are the tasks of the police – so I learned it more than 26 years ago at the Gendarmerie School. These are the basic tasks of the police. It is also the task of the police to ensure the protection of the population and the averting of dangers for them. As a legislator, we are in Parliament, we have to ensure that the police receive the necessary resources and equipment to carry out these tasks. This change of law, as it stands here, gives these resources and creates further possibilities for police officers to carry out the tasks. I think it's a good law. It is the right step to be taken here by us as legislators. Unfortunately, how important good equipment for police officers would be and is, we have had to experience this very tragically during the weekend. I too would like to express my warm condolences to the family of the killed policeman and colleague Daniel S.. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to take this case to the occasion of renewing an old demand that I have been making for many years now, but I have to do so – unfortunately – because perhaps some people do not have really open ears, if not just such an example as to show the need for shooting-proof under-privileged vests for the police. I kept talking about this. As an employee of the police in the state radio control centre, I also know from the foreign service how such alarms are going. I also know how many false alarms there are and how difficult it is. In this case, it was really a situation in which you as a police officer actually have no chance, except you have better physical protection. Daniel S. would no longer have helped an under-retirement vest, but the severely injured young colleague who took a belly shot would have been able to make the injuries much less fall. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore make an old request from me as a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly explain why this is necessary and so important: In Germany, the police officers in the field of foreign service have these under-privileged vests; and, we have heard from previous speakers, the attacks against executive officers are becoming more and more with both arms and firearms. The aggressors are becoming more and more skrupellos, and there are more and more injured police officers after violent attacks. I have already asked a few questions; the figures are terrifying. When I look at it like this: Today, it is the case that an Austrian police officer who wants to have such an under-privileged vest must buy it privately. A piece costs between 700 and 1 000 €. With a basic content of 1 300 €, 1 400 € – net, without supplements – this is a nice sum for a young executive. I believe that as a legislator and the Ministry of the Interior, we are called on as a competent body to ensure the protection of executive officials, the police officers responsible for our safety, which are on our mission, and to ensure that these officials are best protected. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask you to accept this request. I'd be glad if this was done unanimously. We do something good in this; that is a good thing. I can only ask you for this for the colleagues in the foreign service; they deserve it. There is nothing to be done if we – rightly, dear Otto – only repeatedly give praise and good words to the police and thank us for their work, for it is our task to ensure their best protection. Please agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19795	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19865	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19887	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Public and personal security are important and indispensable goods and rights. Austria is a safe country, and it should remain that way in the future. The fact is that there are current dangers and threats that affect public security and also partially frighten people. With this revision of the Security Police Act, we create new and modern opportunities to improve the guarantee of public security. It has already been said today that especially our police need practical opportunities as well as resources and powers to act in the event of danger. In this way, there can be bans for kindergartens, schools, club venues and other places. Ladies and gentlemen, each of us knows places where public security is at risk. If, for example, Mrs Wurm, I think of the archmeile, the railway station or the Bolzano Square in Innsbruck, there are areas where people simply feel fear and are insecure and threatened by harassment. It is therefore our duty and our duty to take action before something happens. We must act and not react. We must take seriously the fears and concerns of people and recognize the realities, so I would have expected that today some things could have been carried by the opposition. I believe that we have discussed in depth and in terms of content very profoundly in committee, so I would have expected a broader agreement today when it comes to safety. We can also use the new Security Police Act to prevent drugs trafficking in schools, violence and vandalism at major sporting events. The amendment to the Security Police Act brings more protection and security for public life, public co-operation. The new law will increase control and investigation pressure, the police will have more powers, so we will give victim protection a higher priority and a higher priority. I would like to thank the Federal Minister Sobotka once again for this intense and balanced discussion, but also for the consequence of the implementation and not to push it to the long bank. It is about security, and we are standing for it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19935	Now Mr. Federal Minister Mag has himself. Sobotka. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e19956	Mr President. High house! On this motion for a resolution, the equipment relating to: I think that the Ministry of the Interior – which concerns my predecessors and is so today – is a very great concern for the protection of officials in use. In this sense, it is also true that those vests that offer the best protection – and this has not been decided by the Minister and finally not only by the head of the section, but by an expert group – that is, the overhanging vests, in a number of 6,000; 3,000 are already present, which are already partly on the PIs and in the cars. 1 500 – and this is a quantity scaffold, which also needs to be delivered – are delivered gradually this year and the rest next year. As far as the ballistic helmets – which have now been re-addressed due to this tragic event – are concerned, they are also already in the procurement process, only you need to know that we expect a purchase around 2017 if no major objections are made. The amount of equipment to be obtained takes some time. A few units are equipped with what is reached by the under-restriction vests. However, the experts have said that these would not be cher – even not safe – nor could they guarantee sufficient protection in the field of strike injuries. Even this tragic murder, this injury – I convinced myself when I was injured – could not have been prevented by such an understated vest. I think we should trust the experts who choose the best product with the police to the best of their knowledge and conscience and also take into account the proportionality of freedom of movement and security of use. I mean, we should just feel committed to the opinion of the experts. I offer this to this group of experts again, including your considerations, Mr Hagen, but I think they are currently thinking about a so-called overpass gilt, which offers more security than the undergraduate vest and which in this form also increases freedom of movement and, therefore, perhaps also safety by really bearing it. For us, the essential prerequisite is that the West can also be carried and that the officials will certainly be able to take care of it at all times. We remember again and again how many false alarms actually exist – you just mentioned it – and know that, therefore, often not the corresponding actions are put in place. I think the most important thing is that we can give all our teams a suitable equipment, which they can also easily and quickly put on and through which they are really safe. I would ask you to really trust that the expert group selects the best material and the best option. The budget is planned. However, I also ask you to bear in mind that the procurement process takes some time. However, the respective order processes have already been started. That is what I wanted to say on this motion for a resolution: that measures have long since been taken to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20008	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20029	Ladies and gentlemen! The law also contains points that we approve of Greens, although we will not agree to the draft law today, such as the extension in the field of violence protection, that it is no longer only possible in connection with the apartment, but also in schools, kindergartens and other sensitive places. However, there are also some points in this law that need to be addressed more closely in the debate. This law somehow makes the police a kind of Austrian governor by innovation the crime situation of public order in such an absurd way that it is no longer clear what is punishable and what is not. There's been the criminal record before, and it was clear: The behavior had to be particularly careless, and it had to disturb public order. Now, according to the novelle, a behavior that is suitable for causing an annoyance is sufficient, and public order must be disturbed. That is, “very careless ” is lost. I am therefore saying "Governante": because there is some way to make the police a kind of legal guardian. This is not the purpose and purpose of police work, and it also harms the determination of the criminal paragraph. I brought a few examples to the committee, and no one could answer whether such a behavior would be punishable in the future or not: People stand in front of a local and smoke. Someone doesn't come by them and has to change the street side; he's annoyed. So someone puts a behavior – that doesn't have to be particularly reckless, it's enough if it's thoughtless – this is suitable for anyone to get angry about it, and it's damaging public order because the side of the walkway is changed; that's enough according to the definition of the administrative court. Criminal or not punishable? – According to the current law may already be punishable; absurd. Or: A schani garden is sloppy set up, a car driver parkes badly, a Traficant sets up a weaver – a behavior is set. A mother or a father with a stroller doesn't come by the foothill. This is probably even an comprehensible nuisance because it has to change the street side – it will affect public behavior. Criminal or not punishable? According to the text of the law, it is punishable. Or, last point: Someone who doesn't take it so well with the body hygiene gets on the subway – he puts a behavior. Public order is disturbed, and it is probably a legitimate nuisance under this law. These are not absurd examples, but the law by which such examples are imaginable is absurd. The university professor Reindl-Krauskopf said that this law is a step back. It could also be said differently: It's fun. And it does not make it clear to the users, namely the police, but also citizens, in so far as problems are concerned, what is punishable and what is not. The quality of administrative criminal law, of all laws, but especially of criminal law, is that the citizens, but also the police, know clearly: This is allowed, and this is not allowed. Second point, the often discussed question of the monitoring of police official actions: It is clear who is disrupting an official act – that was the old legal situation – that will have to expect a direction. Now you go a little further and say – and this is again a gay term – who behaves aggressively can be turned away. Where does aggressive behavior begin? Where does aggressive behavior end? It is already a difference whether an official act is disturbed or observed. Secondly, in the sense of transparency in democracy, it must be possible as long as it is not disturbed. To conclude that this is perhaps already aggressive behaviour, I think it is problematic because official acts that are carried out correctly do not need to be closed off by the public. The Minister then said to me in the committee: You can't imagine how difficult official acts are often, at the Praterstern the police are attacked! – It may be true, only it has nothing to do with aggressive behavior, but it has long exceeded the threshold of criminality under the Criminal Code because there is either resistance to state violence or possibly even body injury. All these examples are not taken because they have been rejected much earlier. I say: In essence, I already have the suspicion that it is about official acts being terminated from unpleasant observations, and I think this is wrong in a democracy. There's no way to interfere with an official act, it's clear, But the observation of an official act must be possible, and there must not be the possibility of opening the door and the door that you will somehow be shot off. Therefore: One cannot agree with this because there is an absurd extension of a crime, namely the disruption of public order. This will not be kept before the Constitutional Court because the decree of the law is clearly in breach. At some point, someone will go to the Constitutional Court, and there we will once again get it officially that we – not Greens, we do not agree, but those who agree – as legislators, you forgive. – Thank you very much – of course not for pussing.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20120	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20142	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We saw shootings in public space, as we actually know them from American films, in Vienna last week. A young police officer has suffered his injuries, the second is with serious injuries in the hospital – my deepest condolences to the families. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am the first and only female speaker here at the speaker's desk on this item in the agenda and would like to point out that this amendment of the Security Police Act closes a further gap in the European comparison in Austria. I remember the 1st. Violence law; next year it will be 20 years old. The anti-talking law entered into force in 2006. Then the 2nd and the 3rd came. Violence law, and now another gap is closed, another mosaic in the field of violence protection is being added, because a measure is being put in place in the administrative procedure. We are talking about acts of violence against women. Every third woman has once been victims of violence in her life, says the European Fundamental Rights Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore welcome the women's aspects of this law – an important measure. Preventive instruments have been created, for example – they have already been addressed – on the issue of culprits. This is an important measure to clarify standards. The Minister also mentioned in the Committee that there are appropriate teachings and trainings for the police. That's to be welcomed. It is a question of the perpetrators being informed of the danger that this has a legal effect if they continue to do so. In this context, this is an important measure in the field of prevention. It also met the wishes of families and children's rights organizations, who said they needed action, they needed tools to prevent perpetrators from driving away from schools. Prohibitions on entry can now also be applied to kindergartens and schools. This is an important measure that parents and educators have repeatedly called for. It is also to be welcomed that in acute cases cross-sectional intervention is possible. All in all, this action in the field of women's policy is another mosaic to an already Europe-wide anti-violence instrument in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20196	Next speaker: Mr Mag. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20217	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen. This law contains several preventive measures. They're supposed to make our country a lot safer because they're giving our police officers the tools in their hands. The extension of the ban on child care facilities and schools, the possibility of pre-loading certain persons to the police and, above all, the extension of the directions. I would like to point out that no law – an at least abstract standard – can handle all possible matters in detail. This would make a law unclear, and such a law would perhaps not be enforceable in the event of precise compliance, with respect to point and addition. To draw up regulations too closely also means that in retrospect, changes are likely to be necessary soon, because new, similar facts arise, and then one speaks of occasion legislation. For the practical enforcement and handling of laws, it is important that a certain discretion is given to the legal user by means of not too narrow terms. In order to define and demarcate such terms, the explanatory notes and also the stenographic protocols are available. There the legislator can explain the motives and goals he pursues with a determination. The user thus gets guidance in the interpretation of undetermined legal concepts. In concrete terms, the concept of legitimate nuisance or behavior that is appropriate to cause a legitimate nuisance was criticized, with “righteous nuisance” certainly meant in the sense of reason. There are also examples of this in the explanatory notes, for example: “the urgent follow-up and follow-up. The following shall be followed by a person or the setting up of business passages’ or ‘the occurrence of groups which, by their behaviour, threaten or threaten a person: to convey disturbing impressions on those present”. These often show up in public places, which are sometimes regarded as social focal points, a certain thing, one could say, reviation behaviors and do not happen by chance there either. It is precisely there that there is a clear line between an intrusive, threatening behavior on the one hand and simple rudeness on the other. At any rate, the examples already mentioned are not included: the group of smokers on the foothill or a person who does not venture too often, in public transport. This is an overshadowed representation that certainly puts this regulation in a false light. I think it is important that our excellent working police are also given the appropriate tools for their daily dangerous work in the interests of the safety of the population. To further increase the level of safety while preventing a number of problems, both will certainly succeed in this legislative project.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20258	Mr Doppler came to speak as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20279	Mr President. Minister! Ms. – disappeared – Secretary of State! High house! I would like to thank you very much for your support. Men and gentlemen! This draft government is about three legislative amendments; I am referring to the Security Police Act. The police are given further powers to fight terrorists and other crimes – I think that's good. We all want a safe country so that people in our country feel safe and safe. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we want security, but we need to support the police. The new provisions should allow the police to carry out their often very difficult task and work easier and better. I cannot imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that anyone in this House has something against it if there is better protection in terms of massive sexual assaults and harassment as regards the prevention of family violence; the reduction of DNA samples is a very important measure. The people have a right to safety, and we must also equip the police with a legal basis and the appropriate possibilities. To keep our security safe in the future, police often risk their lives, as the latest sad example has shown. The family affected is my sincere condolences!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20318	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20340	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! As a Carinthian, of course, I also want to express our participation to the family and to the members of the Carinthian police. In the past, the Ministry of the Interior has repeatedly demonstrated with the novels that were made – sometimes also under severe criticism, not too long ago – that they have contributed to the security of the state of Austria and to our security. Austria is still one of the safest countries in the world. This is not a matter of course, and even today we are again deciding on a novel that will contribute to this security. In fact, my previous speakers have already addressed all the points; one I would like to highlight, namely the electronic pooling of emergency calls. This type of electronic pooling of emergency calls is already done by the Red Cross in the countries, is also made by the Fire Department in the countries and should bring two great benefits: firstly, that one is cross-borderly faster, that that unit, which is currently in the border area, where something is happening, can be used, and secondly, that in the districts outside – the staff stand is not affected by this, I would like to say quite clearly, the staff level remains the same – resources can be released in the offices, say, there are free capacities and the police can be on the move and ensure security. That is good, that is important, that is necessary, because I believe that one of the most important goods of a state is security. In view of the fact that the world is more uncertain at the moment, and when we look at the crime statistics in Austria – although it is still too much – we can be proud of it, because it has not increased, it has gone down rather minimally, and we must continue to fight for it. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20379	As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I would like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20400	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Aggressive behavior is not a cavalier crime, and it is therefore right and important that we also allow our police officers, who take care of security in our country on a daily basis, the appropriate opportunities to prevent possible crimes in advance. That's exactly the meaning and content of this prevention novel: Act before something happens. Why the Green and NEOS colleagues don't understand this, I'm actually sluggish, because on the one hand, understanding is shown for the motives, but when it comes to implementation, you prefer to withdraw. As a legislator, however, we are obliged to man, and we are in favour of introducing measures for greater security and ultimately taking responsibility for our actions. I don't understand the fears of the Greens about police arbitrarily just as much as the fears of the NEOS in the surveillance state, but I understand the fears and concerns of the people, the people from violence – whether for terrorist reasons, for ideological reasons, religious reasons, or simply because a group of young people are acting in the same way as sheriffs. All of this is not necessary. I understand the fears of the people, and we must react accordingly. I am sure that by this law we have the majority of the population on our side, because the security of the individual must have priority at all times, and therefore it is also important that we do not restrict the right to freedom of expression, the right to freedom of assembly is not restricted either; but it is not necessary to use rowy conduct or even violence in these areas. It is therefore necessary to act accordingly. I have no understanding of the criticism of the way forward. Finally, we are dealing with protection zones, and who does not want children to be adequately protected from these facilities in kindergartens or in public schools? We definitely want this, and if only a breach can be prevented, the law has already paid off today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a question of finally adopting this law by a large majority in the house, because it ensures more security. Aggressive behavior – I stress it again – is not a cavalier crime and has not lost anything in the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20450	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 1229 of the supplements. Hiezu is a request of the honourable Member Mag. Alm on a separate vote with regard to Art. 1 before. So I shall first vote on the part that is concerned by the request for a separate vote and then on the remaining parts that have not yet been voted. Firstly, separate vote on Art. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who advocate a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. – That's the minority. This request is rejected. [[18:49:01]] 10. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the report of the Federal Government on the National Reform Programme of Austria 2016 (III-263/1202 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20532	Now we come to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20559	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! First of all, a few words about the recovery of this National Reform Programme: According to the name, one might well suspect that since the Austrian Federal Government had come up with some kind of effort to implement reforms piece by piece, that would really be too much of the honor for this federal government and that would be a milestone. This so-called National Reform Programme is part of the European Semester to achieve the objectives of the Europe 2020 Agenda. So it's a sort of question-answer game: The European Council gives recommendations, and the Federal Government gives answers whether and, if so, how it intends to implement these recommendations of the Council. Whether these measures are another paperworker in the framework of the European Semester will show up. From my point of view, the chances of progress in reform are very poor. Even a convinced EU-fundamentalist such as ÖVP Head of Delegation Othmar Karas has already agreed that the implementation of reforms is very slow. This is actually a pity, because there are also recommendations from the Council which would not be so bad and would be quite positive for Austria. Let's take a look at this: The first recommendation of the Council is that the budgetary neutrality, the revenue neutrality of the tax reform should be ensured so that the medium-term budgetary objectives are not jeopardised, which the Council calls for. The Federal Government then repeatedly refers to counter-financing measures – combating tax and social fraud, structural measures, reductions in funding and the like. But if you look at all these points that the Federal Republic of Germany If you give an answer, look at it in detail, then you can see the horse foot as well. For example, in the fight against fraud: With regard to the € 1.9 billion budgeted in surplus revenue – the registration fee and the like – it is only with the words of the President of the Fiscal Council Bernhard Felder: “When you reach half, you can already be satisfied.” The €1.3 billion in additional revenue from fiscal structural measures is a eu-hemism for nothing other than direct and indirect tax increases. So the Minister of Finance is getting back into the pockets of the citizens, and they can finance the tax reform themselves. The savings in the administration and in the promotions mean that there is no planned action in Austria. There is a kind of shaving mentality cut across all ministries, and this even leads to security being saved – and this in view of the great migration crisis in which we have been in for over a year. So, as a long-term strategy, you really can't call it that. With regard to the savings in support, I can only now point out that there is still no effective transparency database to prevent multiple funding. This has so far failed the resistance of the countries. I am also in favour of the next EU recommendation, the Council says, "to address the incongruence between the financing of different levels of government and their expenditure". This means nothing more than a merger of revenue and expenditure management. After a long time, it has finally succeeded in creating a modern budgetary law for all levels. This is a welcome contribution to greater transparency and comparability, but nothing changes in the basic problem. Then you can read what the Federal Government writes in the reform programme in response to this Council recommendation – I quote: “In the course of the financial compensatory negotiations to be concluded before the summer of 2016, more tax autonomy for the countries and a strengthening of the task orientation will be worked out.” I would like to admit to Mr Finanzminister, who is not here today, that he has really tried on this matter or, better said, has tried to move on and get things moving, but he who knows the persistent forces in the countries knows what this is an impossible hercules task. So far, the countries have always crossed. In total, however, this response by the Federal Government is already obsolete. The summer is already there, a result is not available, and I do not even want to ride around on the deadline. However, much more significant or more tragic is the fact that there will be no reconstitution of revenue and expenditure management. As the Council's last recommendation, the long-term guarantee of the local pension system is encouraged. – Yes, there’s nothing going on, it’s best to see movements in the microscopic area. The cost of our pension, social and health systems explodes, not least because of the wave of migration that is rolling across our country. There's nothing really visible here. However, it will not be possible without structural reforms. I have already mentioned the problem of federalism. A rationalisation and slimming of administration is necessary in all areas. We only need to think about pension and health insurance institutions. The jungle must be wooded rigorously. Double-tracking, efficiency gains in the administration – one could at last follow the Court of Auditors’ recommendations. This would be a prerequisite for a sustainable reduction in public debt, for a balanced budget. These are also prerequisites for a sustainable reduction in the pressure burden, because the last tax reform only gives citizens a short breath before the cold progression takes place again. When these reforms are started, then – but really only then! – one can speak of a National Reform Programme that deserves this name at all. – Unfortunately, this paper does not deserve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20642	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20663	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the 2016 National Reform Programme of Austria is of course also due to the Commission's economic policy analysed within the framework of the European Semester. The recommendations made by the Commission have been implemented on a number of points, or we have already adopted some reforms here. I do not know why my previous speaker, Mr Haider, concludes that we are saving security, because we have made more than €600 million available in the financial framework for internal security, and we have also provided € 1 billion for the German army, for border protection and for active activity by 2020, and there are also reform measures. That is to say, we have already implemented many of the recommendations. We made a tax reform with 1. In January 2016, more than 90 percent of all persons in employment with an average amount of € 1,000 a year are charged. This tax reform has a volume of over €5 billion, more precisely €5.2 billion. As far as counter-financing is concerned, only one thing can be said: In recent years, the opposition has still said to every budget that it will not keep revenue, it will not keep the budget, it will not keep the proposal, and it has kept it every year. We will also see this in the counter-financing measures at the end of 2016. At the same time, by 2018, we will reduce the additional wage costs by € 1 billion, and from 2018 the bonus-malus system will enter into force as regards the employment of older workers in companies with over 25 employees. I think there is no point in talking about anything here in the House, Mr Haider. However, we can also recognise reform efforts and discharge efforts, particularly as regards the employment factor, because I do not think it is a matter of course that, although we are committed to fiscal consolidation, whatever the Commission is calling for, and you have also mentioned it, we have made a tax reform to this great extent that we are still making an additional wage reduction, and we are very sure that this will also boost the economy. Of course, this does not happen from one day to another, that is clear – we have only seen the figures for May in terms of budget figures or revenue – but at the end of 2016 we will see more. There's a lot to say, I'm just saying: Well, of course we have to carry on reforms. We must also continue to bring forward reforms in pensions. We cannot be satisfied with the fact that the actual retirement age is only somehow approached to the legal person, but it really has to be Sometimes move in the direction that people actually retire like this – with 65 or 60, depending on whether men or women – as it is regulated by law. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, there is also a great deal of money involved, for example in the principle of “rehabilitation before retirement”. The fact that one does not do anything or there are no reforms at all, therefore, is not true. Finally, Mr Haider, on financial compensation: It's being negotiated. We have already decided on a common accounting system and a common framework for the countries and communities – for communities with more than 10,000 inhabitants and for municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants – but everything needs its time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] We also had a lot to do with the asylum issue in the first half of the year. I don't think anyone's just standing there and doing nothing at all, but of course it's a running process. Moreover, we are committed to reforms, and anyone who wants to be there is welcome to join.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20723	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Rossmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20745	Mr President. High house! First of all, a few comments on the National Reform Programme as such: I can see that, and I have already said this in the Committee, that we are actually abandoning a strategic governance instrument, in that there is a lack of coordination of the measures between the Federation on the one hand and the countries and communities on the other. This is a big manko, and I think that the German Government should work together with the social partners involved in the preparation of the National Reform Programmes. I also have comments on some country-specific recommendations: The first concerns tax reform, which has already been addressed by my previous speaker and their predecessors. But interesting is a phenomenon that has not yet been pointed out; the Federal Government has always felt that lower incomes would be more relieved than the higher incomes. Well, once again, an institution – in this case the European Commission – confirms that this is not the case, because the top 10 percent of the available income of households is reduced by 4.5 percent and the lower Decil, i.e. the lower 10 percent of the income, by 1.9 percent. This is covered by the studies of the Economic Research Institute, the Budget Service, the Institute for Inequality Research. There is only one institution, the Federal Government, which constantly claims the opposite – it is not right. So it is, you have to take note of that. As for counter-financing, Mrs Tamandel: Well, at the end of the day, we'll see if the budget figures are really right. [[Abg. Tamandl: Exactly!]] To conclude from the past, especially from past misbugments, that in the future everything will always be the same as in the past, so I would be a little careful. Another comment relates to the sustainability of the pension system, namely the long-term sustainability. If Mr Haider has said that it is possible to find that the cost of pensions is going to explode, I can only say that: In the short term, the exact opposite is the case. Last year, the pension subsidies were significantly below the Federal proposal, which amounts to a few hundred million euros. This will also be the case this year, and even this year the pension subsidies will be below the proposal by a few hundred million euros. This means that the measures that have been put in place in this area are beginning to take place, and when we look at ourselves... [[Abg. Loacker: Well, that means... has taken on your arm?]] – Mr Loacker, look at the numbers! Now we come to the long term: Yes, the pension system doesn't go to the wall and it's also not scrapty, as you always claim it, that's really a mess. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Look The last long-term forecast in the Strategy Report! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] This clearly shows that contributions to pensions in 2015 are 14.1 percent and will be 14.5 percent in 2060. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Abg. Loacker: Where? What?]] In other words, we have a very stable development of pension subsidies. And what you want to say to us, that the pension system would be scrapped, is simple and simply an unfavorable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20829	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Matznetter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20850	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Bruno, you're just too strict with them. If you want to sell private products, you have to tell people how bad the other is, because otherwise they don't sign! The thick end only comes when they have paid ten years and then come up with what it looks like to private products: outsourced future provisions, letters from our insurance institutions that unfortunately only the capital is there and there is no chance of further income – that is the reality! [[Abg. Loacker: Then why do all the workers need supplementary pensions if everything is so great?]] A good time would have been in the last six years? – This country has been running for decades and has imagined that we need to get some private products in front of the people. Let's see that our system continues! But now on the matter and on the comments made by Mr Haider: The country-specific Recommendation No 1 I can mention almost as a kind of actual correction to its comments. As far as financing is concerned, this has already been done by Mr Tamandl: The discharge of the labour factor has taken place without any burden on our budget. It has succeeded, and the 5 billion are leading to more purchasing power and to the start of the economy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hairer]] You can find out that through the tax reform you have more 29 000 jobs – you should welcome this and not malign the reform. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haider and Mr Kassinger]] With regard to this March, nothing would have happened in the field of pensions: Look It is only Figure 1 in the Federal Government's report that: We have already achieved the goal of 2018 at the actual retirement age of 60,2 with 2015. It works! Yes, but it also leads to the fact that the demand for labour markets is increasing several times – the elderly work longer, we also have higher employment rates and most increases in older workers in the over 60s among men and over 55s for women. [[Calls and calls from Mr Loacker and Mr Pendl]] They need a job. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] We also have jobs, but we also have the move. We've got everything at the same time. We have the largest group, if you like, of foreign workers and employees from Germany, who also want to have a job. All this means that we still have the weakness in growth, that we do not yet get the unemployment figures down. However, this federal government is on a good path, and this is also evident when you look at the suggestions, namely the recommendations Nos 2, 3 and 4 – to the banking sector actually a positive witness. The government doesn't have to be ashamed of that! I congratulate and may say to the Secretary of State: That's a good job. Another point: The budget deficit is not at risk. We have a structural zero deficit since 2014. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Fuchs and Mr Kassinger.]] Everyone came from the opposition and said: You'll never be able to do this in 2016! [[Abg. Tamandl: Exactly!]] We had it in 2014, we had it in 2015, we will have it in 2016. – This part has also been successful. We have stable finances, a better economic development, and with the Federal Chancellor's core we will start through. We don't need the FPÖ to do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e20999	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21020	Mr President. High house! Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, Mr Matznetter, you can always talk about the world, and you have to do so in your situation, because otherwise, in view of this current account, you would have to conclude that you are more relinquishing and dedicated to other tasks. [[Abg. That's what he does especially well!]] [[Abg. Lout: Bitch pale is he, the core!]] As NEOS, we have always expressed our position – or that was at all an important reason why we have established ourselves, why we have taken action – that the stopover in this country is unbearable. It was therefore important to us that this report on the Austrian National Reform Programme be discussed and concluded not only in the Committee, as originally foreseen, but also here in plenary and discussed publicly. [[Federal Minister Schelling takes place at the government bank.]] What can be read there can be summarized very well, the budget service has done so, I quote: ‘The 2016 country-specific recommendations proposed by the European Commission (EC) for Austria remained largely unchanged compared to the previous year.’ — Quotes. What does that mean? – The recommendations are always the same year after year, because every year the essential reforms are not taken and implemented again. That's the point. This, of course, in the final effect for fiscal stability, for our budget and for our budget, has the consequence that debt making continues. Also this year, it is billions of euros that are produced in debt. Mr Matznetter, if you address the structural zero deficit, I would like to thank you for this slide: The structural deficit was once a good idea. The idea was that the situation of the budget, the deficit or the surplus could be corrected by the economic ups and downs. So not bad from the idea. But what has been made out of it is something else. If only the economic situation is sufficiently misguided, then we always have a balanced structural budget, as well as now, and hides from the fact that in reality the budget is anything but balanced. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] – I also welcome you, Minister of Finance. [[Federal Minister Schelling: That's exactly...!]] If even this so-called structural zero deficit is not enough – I can address it to you immediately – then we expect the refugee costs to go out again. [[Federal Minister Schelling: You are unable to calculate that, believe me!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: Well, excuse me, that's how it is across the EU...!]] – Only because it is made across the EU does that not mean that it is a good idea. [[Abg. Loacker: The others are all...!]] Mrs Tamandl, the last time that something was calculated out of the budget as a one-time effect, was about Hypo Alpe-Adria. What was the one-time effect? Since 2008 we have been occupied and still busy with it. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Those who now call the refugee costs a one-time cost that will only temporarily employ us, which can be calculated so easily, have not recognized the international situation, but so you can keep thinking about the world. In the end, it is always the attempt not to present the problem as the structural problem that it is, in fact, but as a economic one – it is, so to speak, the bad economy that does not want to start year after year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The biggest of all structural problems is also mentioned in the report of the Budget Service, which, as it is somewhat sprung up, is “simplification (...) and streamlining the budgetary relations and responsibilities of the various levels of government”. In summary, this concerns federalism in Austria or, rather, what is actually not federalism, but a complex confusion in financial relations, which does not even look through experts, where millions of billions of people are sluggishing – the financial compensation that does not work and has the effect that all, namely the federal government, states and communities, are responsible for anything, but, in total, no one is responsible. This is not federalism, it is organized irrationality, and that, as this report tells us, has not been addressed again, as every year. How long do we actually want to read this over and over again in these reports until you finally take on essential reforms?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21159	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21180	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Since 2010, the government has been focusing on Europe's 2020 targets. It is now the recent report of the Federal Government that documents progress on the way to this reform programme, and we can, in any case, summarize that Austria is on the right track. We see, for example, that an issue that is at the heart of the future – investment in education and research – is now at a value of 3.1 percent of GDP has landed. If we compare this: We were 1.9 percent of GDP 15 years ago. 3.1 percent is a major progress, but the target for 2020 is 3.76 percent. So we're not there yet, but we're on a good path. Similarly, Austria is on a good path in the share of renewable energy in gross energy consumption, in the academic rate, in the dop-out rate of school dropouts – in all of these topics you know. I believe that under the rule it can be stated that we have arrived on a good path, but at the same time we still have a lot of tasks in front of us – especially when we look at the country-specific recommendations. In the previous discussion it has already been mentioned: A key issue that the European Commission is giving us is the recommendations on the long-term and sustainable protection of the pension system, on sustainability. A recommendation is whether we all like to hear this or not, harmonisation, so to speak, the equal rights of women and men as regards the statutory retirement age. A further and, in my opinion, very realistic proposal, for which our Federal Minister is always very strong, is the link between the statutory retirement age and life expectancy – in our case, thank God for an increasing life expectancy. By the way, by the way, all the international experts to be taken seriously are also recommended to expand the business and private pension systems. That's where I'd ask: Let's do this without ideological scumbags. I'm the last one who keeps the bar that talks about our pension system being scrapped, old-age poverty and so on – that's really overburdened. But on the other hand, I think you'd wear scams if you said: It's nothing to do and we don't need any complementary systems there. We only need to look at the demographics, the effects if the baby boomers retire in ten or fifteen years. That is, for our citizens, the expansion of occupational and private pension schemes as a complement to a reasonable state pension system is very important. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker.]] In summary, I have already said that Austria is on a good track. Another component of this is, now quite up-to-date, the economic policy orientation for 2016 and 2017 presented by the Vice-Chancellor and also by the Chancellor. These issues, too, to improve the economic environment articulated there, are another building block on the way to a positive implementation of the National Reform Programme. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21235	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21256	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The pensions are safe – we have heard from Mr Matznetter, and we will hear from Mr Schopf again that everything is great. [[Abg. Pendl: Exactly!]] Then I ask you one: If everything is so great, why do the workers of the Chamber of Labour need additional pensions in the volume of € 22 million a year that the small forced contributors need to finance? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pendl:... pension funds!]] The Billa Cassier finances the Bonzenpension of the Red Workers' Chambers! Why? – If the pensions were safe anyway, you wouldn’t need that! [[Abg. Pendl:... pension funds!]] But that goes beyond that: The pension insurance institution, where the normal mortals pay their ASVG contributions, needs €65 million in the year for the supplementary pensions of their own people. But we don't need any precautions, we don't need a second pillar, we don't need a third pillar, it's all safe. These are only the evil liberals who say now it needs a second, a third pillar. That's really doubly! You sell the small contributors and forced contributors for stupid, and your people stop the bags full of the money of the small contributors. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let's get to the pension system. – Yes, “laughing” can easily be called if you sit yourself in thick cars and thick offices. [[Abg. Keck: But now it's getting ridiculous!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Since when is a bike a car?]] The retirement age should be adapted to life expectancy. Mr Matznetter tried to explain to us: We have already achieved all the goals. He knows, of course, that the objectives achieved by the Republic of Austria are due to the fact that a statistical trick has been applied and that the invalidity and occupational incapacity pensions of under 50 years old have been calculated. Sure, that'll be forgotten, because that'll be two or three years ago, and then you can tell people the same shame again and say: It's all right. So, with this eye-catching, this federal government is making politics. What's also exciting is what I've gotten in a question response – you can read that – is Question Answer 8287/AB, which shows that there are quite different opinions within the Federal Government on the pension system and that there are also interventions by members of the government at European level, as a more positive presentation of the disaster that the government provides. The EU Commission is of the opinion that the government can no longer believe the figures, because if the retirement age were to rise as you represent it, then expenditure would have to develop completely differently and that would not be in keeping with it. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... Enquiry answer!]] Mr Rossmann has also taken advantage of the wonderful figures – pension expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product. I'll tell you the secret. We do not pay the pensions of gross domestic product, but we have to see how much percentage of tax revenue actually goes up for pensions at the end of the day, and we will be in Bälden so far that one third of the Federal Budget for Pensions goes on it. That's getting on the rise. If this is your goal and if the government is satisfied with it, the volumes speak. The pension system is scrapped in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21377	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21398	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker! Only one sentence to the pensions: We are not of your opinion if you make yourself here again and again and think – just one example – that the age of women's pensions should be adjusted immediately. We are opposed to social democracy. [[Abg. Loacker: I haven't had time to mention that, but thank you!]] The NEOS are for the women's retirement age to be adjusted immediately, we are not. Please note! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Among other things, the reform programme includes the issue of how highly the labour factor is taxed and taxed in Austria. I think there has already been a number of measures by the government. I remember, as previous speakers have said, the tax reform in which workers, pensioners and pensioners have received almost €5 billion since January 2016. I also think – which has benefited many entrepreneurs – that the accident insurance contribution has now been reduced for two years, that the contribution to the insolvency remuneration fund has been reduced in recent years, 2015 and also this year, that the FLAF contribution will be reduced in the coming year, from January 2017, but also that which our Federal Chancellor announced yesterday: that there will be a discharge, especially for young and innovative businesses, especially for those who will start businesses in the coming weeks and months. In this respect, there will be reliefs. I also mean – and this is important – that the labour factor must continue to be relieved, and in that we agree here. One possibility – and I think that is the most important possibility – is to widen the basis of the assessment. We want to relieve labour, we want to strengthen those companies that create jobs – once again: those companies that create jobs. In this area, of course, the costs need to be reduced. We want the financing of our excellent social state to continue to be maintained at a lower wage rate in the future. Therefore, we advocate a value-added levy or a digitisation contribution or an employment bonus, names should not be in the foreground. [[Abg. Loacker: Is the speech from 1917?]] We want to relieve personalised industries, Mr Loacker. [[Abg. Loacker: Is the speech of 1917?]] You don't want to. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] We want companies to be relieved that will create jobs in the future. We want to relieve trade, we want to relieve the plants of metallurgy, mechanical engineering, construction, tourism, tourism. In the future, these enterprises will have to be relieved financially. I think that's a very important point. But those who currently achieve great profits with few staff, with very few staff, will have to pay more in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] It is not therefore a question of taking up overall higher taxes, but of achieving a level playing field in this Republic, especially as regards employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21479	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21501	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing Austria's 2016 National Reform Programme, Austria on the way to the EU 2020 targets, and Austria's reporting obligation to the EU. The report also provides up-to-date data on the economic development of Austria, including the EU recommendations in this report. Following a weak economic growth of 0.9 percent in 2015, in the euro area 1.6 percent, Austria expects an increase of 1.5 to 1.6 percent in 2016. A major problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the supply of labour, which is much higher than the level of employment. Therefore, unemployment is increasing in a massive way. Ladies and gentlemen! A very large contribution to a better current account is made by tourism, I have looked very closely at it, otherwise this report would look much darker. This report also says that Austria should avoid any deviations from the budgetary objective in order to relieve labour, Mr Walter Schopf. You said yes to relieve the work factor, but as far as I know, the SPÖ is in the government. I urge you to do this, because I think that is a very important approach. Taxation on work is far too high and is urgently relieved. But, Walter Schopf, please do it urgently! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21543	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no wish by the rapporteur for a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Budgets to take note of this report III-263 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:27:07]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1189, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 2016, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 (1203 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21586	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21614	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Allow me first to greet the FPÖ district group Mödling quite cordially with us at the Hohe Haus. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The proposal for a law, which is now under negotiation, in reality concerns only a formality resulting from a shift of competence within the Federal Government. However, I do not think it should be done to look at this rather small point of negotiation without addressing the larger whole, that is, the budget. While in the case of smaller changes within the Federal Government, the budget is carefully reworked, which is also in order, there is obviously total futility on the major issues. There you only need to look at the quarterly report: The exceedances of funds are the highest excesses and have affected the special pot for integration, which is €75 million. Both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Social Affairs have already exhausted the funds made available to them from this pot, in the first quarter. In total, this Federal Government has planned € 2 billion in addition to this year to deal with the migration storm. There are also several studies, one by the University of Krems, which calculates an additional effort for Austria of €8 billion by 2020 from the migration crisis, and that only under the best conditions, if you manage to integrate a large part of the migrants into the labour market. This too is almost a utopian task. The question that I have already raised as a budget speaker is: Has this Federal Government ever calculated the consequences of its policy, i.e. calculation? . We will now vote the shift of €15 million within the budget, while the real problems, the billion-severe problems we face this missing policy, will continue to be suppressed. You can only shake your head there.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21659	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21680	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, in fact, this government template is simply there to decide on the transfer of women's agents from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Health and, of course, to transfer the budget for women's policy to another department of €5.3 million. On this occasion, however, because it is not yet included in the government template, I would like to bring in the following amendment tabled by Mrs Tamandl, Krainer, colleagues and colleagues on the government template of a federal law amending the Federal Finance Act 2016, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020, in the version of the Committee's report, and explain it in the key points. I assume that the amendment has been distributed in the hall. It is also a question of transferring the central budget now; the staff plan must also be changed. The staff – there are 50 planning posts – have to travel from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Health to look after women's agents in the Ministry of Health. If we are talking about budgets or budget figures, we have, of course, seen at the last item on the agenda, that there is a lot of untruth here or a lot of false statements being made. I already said: Mr Haider meant we're saving in safety. [[Abg. Haider: That's it! ... Wrong statement!]] But of course there have also been other statements, such as that not enough reforms would have been implemented or, for example, the question of the structural deficit and the calculation of the costs for refugees. Mr Hable, I can only say: No one has chosen that in 2015 and the following years we will probably have more costs, namely additional costs at the cost of refugees and refugee flows that we have had in the past anyway. That means that it is only about these additional costs. And I think that's also a good way. On the topic of hypo: Even if the disaster has occupied us for many years and we have nevertheless calculated it out of the structural zero deficit, it is nevertheless only a disaster, a blue Carinthian disaster. Although the hypo, which lasts for several years and will probably still be a bit busy, is at least one thing that happened only once, but has taken some time. In this sense: Although the formula for the structural zero deficit is somehow a nilwana, we have nevertheless achieved it – in 2014, in 2015, and we will reach it in 2016 and also in the following years, as the opposition parties can still organise so many unconventional calls here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21723	The amendment is sufficiently supported and has been explained in the main guidelines. He's on trial. The amendment reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21786	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21810	Mr President. High house! I can take a very short look at this government proposal. It concerns the transfer of women's agents from the teaching centre to the health centre. We did not support this amendment at the last plenary session. The reason for this is that my colleagues Berivan Aslan and Sigi Maurer want to have their own women's accommodation for this important cross-sectional matter, as has been the case before. We all remember Johanna Dohnal. Therefore, we also reject these amendments to the Federal Finance Act and the Federal Financial Framework Act. However, we also reject the amendment tabled by Tamandel and Krainer, which is related to this, but also because there are no sufficient reasons in the justifications for the plans, for example, concerning the Federal Ministry of Finance, where amendments of 80 plantations are planned. It can't be that way. Either there are amendments that can also be read and understood, then we can talk about them, but as far as sluggish requests are concerned – sorry, we will unfortunately vote against them. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21840	Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21861	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! A budget of € 10 million per year is now moving to the Ministry of Health, as was already carried out by previous speakers, due to the change of the department from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Health. The women's and equality agents have been established with Minister Oberhauser for a number of days now. The money is clearly shown for this year, but also for the future financial framework. It is obvious that this does not reduce the budget for women, and it is good that this has remained the same in itself with around €10 million over the last ten years. But frankly, At around €75 billion, €10 million is not the world. We want to do more because it is simply extremely important to be able to set up or set up women's policy initiatives. I am also thinking of the very current problem of attacks, hatreds and violence on the network. A vast number of women are affected and victims. I think it's important that women stand out and say: I too became a victim, and I will not keep silent, and you are not alone with it. Thank you at this point for the campaign of journalists to “stand up” against hatred on the net. Thank you also for the initiative of our Minister for a contact point for women affected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yesterday, a paper was also adopted in the Council of Ministers, and these measures are extremely important, and we clearly need more money to do so, because without money, this implementation will not be possible, and awareness-raising work will not be possible. I am also clearly looking at Mr Schelling with a certain emphasis, and I know that our Minister for Women is very hard and will be very committed to it. But let me also say a few words about gender budgeting on this occasion. Since 2009, Gender Budgeting has been embedded in our federal constitution. ==References== In January 2013, women's impact targets were set in the budget. to be encrypted and specified, strengthened. I had a parliamentary debate with other Members of the House a few months ago with a delegation from Bhutan on this issue, as we in Austria are very clearly pioneers of gender budgeting. That's us. That is out of question. But is that what we are implementing? – I think there is definitely a need for improvement, as formulations and goals are often not really taken seriously. Let us consider what arrangements can be created to be truly more binding and professional, so that gender equality policy in the upcoming budget 2016, 2017 and 2018 can really be reflected and made possible! I wanted to address this appeal to all of us before the summer and also with a view to future budgeting, but above all to the resorts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21916	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21937	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Federal Finance Act 2016 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 are concerned, there are changes in the scope of two ministries, which we have already heard, and associated financial retransmissions; so far, so good. I believe that Mr Finanzminister's statement is perfectly correct when he says that investment creates work and thus jobs – jobs that we urgently need, Minister. What we do not need at all, Mr Minister, is cold progression, and it should be abolished as urgently as we need jobs. A reason for the high level of unemployment in Austria, but also in Europe, is the lack of investment. The 315 billion € programme set up by Juncker remains far behind expectations at the mid-term. We therefore urgently need growth impulses, otherwise it will look bad for the future in our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21961	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e21983	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we amend three federal laws: the Federal Finance Act 2016, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020. It has already been mentioned by the previous speakers that there has been a change of government and that is why the resources allocated to these topics will travel from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Health, since in future the Minister of Health will be responsible for women's affairs. We speak of €5.3 million for this year or about €10 million in terms of the federal financial framework. This redeployment also gives us the opportunity to see what this money is used for. We are certainly always very good at budget implementation – quite contrary to what Mr Haider has given us in this regard. The Budgetary performance is good at rail, it is worked responsibly and comprehensiblely. What are the funds spent on? – Some of the funds go into support. For women-specific consultations, around 58 percent of the funding is spent. Violence protection, prevention measures, helpline against violence, emergency calls and the Association of Autonomous Austrian Women's Houses account for around 30 percent of the funding. Equal opportunities and further training are spent on around 12 percent of the funding. Of course there are other expenses: Intervention agencies against violence receive about 86 percent of these expenses, and on women's technology projects, reports, info brochures, studies and so on, approximately 14 percent of other expenses. Of course, staff costs are also involved, which is about €3.35 million. Today we decide to rework between the areas. I think that the Minister of Health will deal responsibly with the money and therefore seek approval of this change of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22022	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22043	Appreciate High House! My previous speakers have already explained that this is more or less a technical change that has become necessary by the shift of competences between ministries. This gives us the opportunity to look at the budget figures a little more closely and see how the planning quality actually is. You have a little bit like this here, as was also mentioned in the economics discussion by Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors this week: On the one hand, we have figures that are actually very good for Austria, and on the other hand, the population feels it so that everything is bad. This is also reflected in the budget when it comes to feeling. We see that what we're planning is going on this year after year. On the other hand, we always have the callers who say: It's all wrong. It's all wrong. It's very special in the pension area. Unfortunately, our scrapter, Mr. Loacker, is not God in space, he speaks the pension system again and again scrap. From my point of view, our pension system is not scrapped. We have shown that, contrary to the first plans, we have saved €4 billion. We will save an additional €200 to €300 million compared to the initial budget forecasts. That is, we see that the pension system is in no way scrapped. What is scrapped – and I think we should look at it carefully – are some pension products where not even the paid-up capital is available. That's a scrap, and I don't see any reason to follow his claim. One has to consider this requirement: We need to make more private provision, we need to strengthen the entrepreneurship pillar. - Yes, no problem! I ask all entrepreneurs to provide pension provision for their employees. Each of us is free to complete a private pension scheme. What it is all about is that I do not think we have to support it with state resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Rossmann! I think we're all interested in having a good budget quality. Of course, we can discuss whether this request is sufficiently supported. I think you should just point out... [[Abg. Rossmann: Founded!]] – Reasoned, apologies whether the application is sufficiently justified. However, I think we should also point out that in many areas the quality of the reports has improved significantly. We have only recently discussed the results of the participation control in the Subcommittee of the Budget Committee and see that the quality of the reports is increasing significantly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] We should point out that we here in this House, through our work in the committees, have achieved significant improvements together. It is also to be thanked by officials in the ministry who have done really good work in recent years, who have contributed a great deal to improving the reports. At this point, we should also like to thank our budget service once again, which prepares these figures in such a way that we Members can work with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22098	Mrs Yılmaz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22119	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Financial Framework Act regulates the priorities of budgetary policy for the next four, five years. In this way, we also focus on integration. In other words, we spend more money on the integration of elderly people who seek protection or receive protection in Austria. Austria faced major challenges. The continued migration to Austria is not easy to master. But we've solved it well so far. We will also be mastering this in the next few months. Our task as a politician is to strengthen those who work as volunteers or employees in concrete integration work. Our task is also to create the financial and legal framework conditions that we can meet these challenges together in the interests of all. You have to turn on the right screws for that. Additional human resources are to be provided where people need it most. Education and language are key components in integration. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We need to strengthen that. Therefore, in the Federal Finance Act 2016 there are more jobs among teachers and in the integration area among others. In 2016 alone, 595 additional teachers are available. A total of more than 1 000 newly created educational jobs will be created by 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no perspective without education. We want to do everything we can to prevent the prospectlessness of young people, no matter where they come from, whether they are fleeing or growing up here. Because what we invest here today, we get back twice and triples in the future. I'm convinced of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22163	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no wish by the rapporteur for a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1189 of the Supplements. Mr Tamandel, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a supplementary or amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Tamandl, Mr Krainer, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning Articles 1, 2 and 3. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also voting in favour of this draft law at third reading. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:49:48]] 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1190, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing the Transfer Price Documentation Act, the Income Tax Act 1988, the Financial Criminal Law, the Account Register and Account Survey Act, the Capital Flow Act, the Common Reporting Standard Act, the EU Office Aid Act, the Customs Act, the Evaluation Act 1955, the Corporate Tax Act 1988 and the Federal Tax Code, and the EU Tax Code (EU Tax Act 2016 – EU-AbgÄG 2016) (1243 d.B.) 13. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the trade regulations in 1994 (1244, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22242	We now come to points 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr MMag came to speak. DDr. Fuchs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22269	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Values Advisors! The increase in tax transparency is an important step towards fiscal justice. Therefore, the introduction of a settlement price documentation law is a welcome step in the right direction. Regrettably, however, the Minister of Finance has restricted the personal scope of the Accounting Price Documentation Act in such a way that, due to the over 750 million euro annual turnover limit, only 20 major international corporations in 2017 will be subject to a country-related reporting obligation – the so-called country-by-country reporting. This would be like introducing speed limits only for motor vehicles over 750 hp. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] De facto we would not have any speed limits, and so it is with this law. Due to the 750 million euro limit, we do not de facto have a country-related reporting obligation for international large companies in Austria. A reasonable law was drawn by the Minister of Finance before the entry into force. Under tax transparency, I imagine something different, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: You are only tax advisors...!]] That is also the reason why we will vote against this law. Tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning are also available in international large companies under € 750 million annual turnover. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Schelling.]] – Yes, exactly, Minister of Finance. It is naïve to believe, Minister of Finance, that tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning do not take place in such companies. Therefore, in line with the Group turnover limit of € 40 million per year, which together with other factors creates an obligation to draw up a consolidated financial statements, we propose a reduction of the € 750 million euro limit to € 40 million. This reduction would ensure that not only 20 major international companies would be obliged to report country-related. Another important criticism of the Compensation Price Documentation Act is the insufficient public publicity obligation of country-related reporting. These business data should not only be made available to tax authorities but also to the general public. This would strengthen the confidence of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises in the national tax system. Any citizen should be able to see where the international large companies pay their taxes and how much taxes they pay. I have full confidence in the Austrian financial administration, which is doing an excellent job, but sometimes the international large companies need the pressure of the general public to tax the profits where they are generated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And what opinion does our Minister of Finance represent? – Mr Schelling blocks the public tax transparency of international large companies with clear arguments. I quote from the BMF's written information to the EU Committee of the Federal Council of 11 February. May 2016, in the Minister of Finance Schelling reasons why he is against the public tax transparency of international large corporations: "This decision was taken because the risks to the companies concerned were considered to be disproportionately large. The risks addressed are, among other things, “the risk of misinterpretation by the public, which can lead to a negative impact on competition. “ In this connection, I can refer to the 12th edition. In April 2016, the proposed amendment to the EU Balances Directive is intended to contribute to the increase of public transparency in the payment of income taxes by companies. This broad public publicity obligation – which, by the way, the Minister of Finance considers illegal under international law – will be incorporated into our legal system through the transformation of corporate law, but not tax law. It is very unfortunate that we need company law and thus justice ministers to introduce a public tax transparency for large international corporations. This would actually be the task of the Minister of Finance and not of the Minister of Justice. There is also a lack of transparency in the amendment of the EU State Aid Act. It is not at all comprehensible why valid rulings, which occurred before the 1st century. In January 2012, it was granted, and should not be exchanged with other countries. There too, the Minister of Finance is required to work for an EU-wide exchange of all the rules still in force, and not just for the first time. ==References====External links== Finally, a comment on today's amendment to the register obligation: The creation of derogations to the registration obligation is a welcome step in the right direction. It is completely incomprehensible, however, that the Minister of Finance has established arrangements which the parties, together with their sub-divisions, prefer in an unconstitutional way to the rest of the economy, especially to gastronomy, and to the genuinely non-profit associations. This is nothing but hidden party funding under the auspices of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like you, Minister of Finance, to work for the fire brigades to the same extent as for the parties and their frontal organizations. It is necessary to ensure that today's amendment does not result in any deterioration in the firearms. In addition, I urge you to finally allow the firearms to deduct the pre-tax rate for the purchase of equipment, and to refer to the request of President Hofer, Strache and me in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22345	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Big. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22366	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! Today, we are consulting the EU Amendment Act 2016. Today, the annual tax adjustment comes to a decision in two very different legislative areas. One is what Mr Fuchs has just discussed in detail is the settlement price documentation law. This law includes an essential contribution to preventing tax fraud through reporting, the so-called country-by-country reporting, by creating master files and local files, by documenting the settlement prices and handing them over to the financial office. This will make this a tax declaration and should be issued in accordance with the corporate tax declaration. On the other hand, with the amendment we have decided on an essential point, the so-called association and host package, I also call it a house package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Why? – The facts are being formed here, which are currently commonplace, which are currently reasonably recognised by all the population groups. This concerns the duration of the club festivals and the holding of them. The different legal situations that public law and associations have had are brought together and merged into their own uniform legal matter. There are exceptions to the registration obligation in certain cases. It is very important that the co-operation of hosts with associations is made possible, which was actually very difficult or impossible in the current legal situation. We support the out-of-house events so that the host can participate there and also have simplifications in the registration bank obligation. We create rules for voluntary staff so that they are not tormented by the health insurance fund and the authorities. We create a new aid scheme so that our hosts have the opportunity to acquire employees who can help. This package is a very reasonable package. We see that we are trying to adapt the current legal situation as people need it. The package also contains that the parties can be supported, as similar as associations can organize festivals. However, there is a bar, so that only up to €15 000 can be generated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] The previous administrative practice has shown that higher sales were also possible and were not taxed. That is why we now have a clear legal situation and a restriction to existing administrative practices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the hosts have legitimate concerns about getting under the wheels that there are misunderstandings when it comes to more club activity, more club festivals. Therefore, we will strive and see how the association development is designed accordingly. In order to perhaps put forward a small bar and improve both laws, I am submitting an amendment to the Government's proposal in 1243 of the supplements: [[Quoted print version removed]] What is it about? – We have removed the special penalties from the settlement price documentation law and incorporated them into the Financial Penal Code so that we have an overview of what a financial penalty, what negligence is and how it is punished, and no special arrangements in this law are created. Secondly, we have stated that only parties that actually participate in economic life are actively involved in political life, in the definition of the new party law and this association law. – Thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22511	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22632	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rossmann. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22653	Mr President. High house! It is already a strong piece to read an amendment at 8 p.m. of which the Opposition parties shall not know anything until that date. If Mr Krainer had not put this amendment into my hand at 7.58 p.m., I would not even have known what it is about because I did not understand things when I heard the reading by my colleague, Mr Groiß. You will not expect us, Mr Groiß, to vote in favour of this amendment. But now the actual content of the EU Amendment Act: One of my previous speakers – it was Mr. Fuchs – said: The big corporations need public pressure! I can only fully support this because transparency is one of the strongest instruments in the fight against tax dumping. This is not about mistrust of the financial administration, nor about the Austrian financial administration. I will now quote a few examples from the newspapers. I don’t have much time, but the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” of 31. December 2015 reports: ‘Apple has to pay 318 million euros in Italy’. The German daily “Die Welt” of 24. In the years 2008 to 2013, Apple is expected to have spent €880 million in Italy. ==References====External links== January 2016 – previously Apple, which now concerns Google – reports that Google in the UK will pay €172 million in taxes for the last ten years. And, and, and so. I could give you some more examples from my documentation. Thus, while the small enterprises and the small self-employed workers are taxing their incomes in a good way, the big ones can be guided by special agreements, by profit shifts, and they are supported by the “Great Four”, the tax consultancy firms. They minimize their tax performance in part against zero, make profit shifts, over tax havens their profits will be postponed for so long until at the end of the day nothing left to tax. Such models are often at the border to the legality. They're already wondering: Where's the tax justice? – These profit shifts alone and the special agreements are losing 160 billion to 190 billion € in the European Union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What can you do about it? – This is, of course, the key issue, and I come to the EU Tax Change Act, the Transfer Price Documentation Act and the Tax Rules. If we take the so-called country-by-country reporting from the settlement price documentation law, i.e. the country-related reports on certain key figures, we see that it is planned that this should only be done for large corporations, for groups of companies from € 750 million in turnover. That's ridiculous. What it needs here is a much lower limit. We have already said this in committee: We want to lean on the Accounting Directive and introduce ourselves to €50 million. It cannot be assumed that these key figures, such as employment, turnover, tax payments and the like, are only reported to tax authorities, but must be reported to the public, which is the strongest weapon or one of the strongest weapons in the fight against tax evasion. My previous speaker has already stated that your rejections in the Committee, Mr Finanzminister – and I have mentioned them all – are very clear. I can only stress this once again and ask myself again in this context: Why do banks report this data? Why do commodity companies report this data? Is there no such problem, Mr. Finanzminister? The second point concerns the automatic exchange of information between tax authorities and large companies. We know about tax arrangements of this kind from “Lux Leaks”. We also know that a company Ikea has de facto reduced its tax payment against zero by such tax arrangements, and that is an unbearable state. There too, it is necessary for these tax pre-deparations to be open to the public. It is not enough for these reports to be exchanged between the financial authorities, but they must also be made available to the public on the one hand, and they must also be made available to the European Commission to ensure that, in the case of the examination of illegal aid, they have information about it, and not only statistical data, as is currently foreseen. It is not enough either, such agreements only from 1. January 2017, to report those agreements before 2012 at all and those between 2012 and 2017 in only very limited form. It cannot be that although directives are one to one, they do not adopt instruments that are credible. We have a credibility problem in the European Union, which I am referring to this morning’s Brexit discussion, and we cannot afford to deal with stupid arms against tax dumping. We're not going to get there. By the way, it is so – I forgot to mention this –: In the country-by-country reporting, i.e. in these country reports, there is a recent proposal from the European Commission which is quite open to the public. That is why this is so important, so I find it unbearable that there is permanent watering and lazy compromises in this respect. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22748	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22820	Mrs Bayr is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22841	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer to the international dimension of the EU Tax Change Act and, in turn, to the field of the Transfer Price Documentation Act, which is due to the BEPS initiative of the G20 on the basis of an OECD presentation, with the aim of combating the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, therefore also the abbreviation “BEPS”. The aim of the scheme is to prevent harmful tax practices by internationally operating companies, which, inter alia, means a shift in profits in the tax burden of individual countries. What can be understood by the term “damaging tax practices” is something that states around the world are using. Now we are in the area of the EU. We also see that, as in Greece, for example, large companies have been operating problematicly, large companies, international, EU-wide companies that have had their headquarters in Greece and have for a long time not paid a tax or delayed tax. This is very important for developed countries such as the EU Member States, such as Greece, as well as for many more but, of course, not developed countries, which each year by means of tax erosion and tax prevention – it has been said that this is partly very hard at the border of legality – are missing hundreds of billions of taxpayers who need them very urgently to invest, for example, in social infrastructure or meet their challenges, as described in the Sustainable Development Goals. The question of robust own tax revenue is also a very big issue globally. Back to the concrete package, where a measure is the guideline for settlement price documentation and country-related reporting: As a result, the EU Directive on transparency requirements for international companies also affects the EU’s State Aid Directive, as regards the possibility of exchange of information between Member States. The country-by-country reports have already been mentioned several times. It is really a question of making the world understandable how the distribution of income, taxes and the business activities of these multilateral entrepreneurs takes place. The need for documentation, which has already been said, will only come from a threshold of € 750 million in total annual turnover, is indeed something where I would like it to be lower, but it would be useful in the same way as in the EU, so that initiatives by the EU would be needed in this direction. All in all, I think that this package is a step towards more tax transparency. You can never wish for too much tax transparency, I see that quite the same. It is simply an important measure to give public budgets the opportunity to create the basis for fulfilling their obligations and, for example, to create such a general provision of services, which also provides access to important public services in the course of which they are provided. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22884	Mr Scherak is speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e22905	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! What SPÖ and ÖVP want to do at least in parts of this bill is that they and their adversaries want to equal the non-profit associations, voluntary fire brigades and so on and so on. In particular, respect for policy advance organisations: It is clear that the JVP or the socialist youth are certainly not the caritas, and therefore they do not need these derogations in connection with the register fund. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Hanger:... 15 000 €!]] - I'll charge you right now. They do not pursue a charitable or a generous purpose. The only thing they really want to do – namely SPÖ and ÖVP – is that they fill their party funds through the back door in some way, and the whole thing at the expense of the host, the entrepreneurs and, above all, the taxpayers. You do what you always do: You focus on how it suits you, how it fits your parties, how it fits your adversaries, how it fits your artists! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That has system in this country, you always do it, and you do it the same way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You want – Mr Hanger has already called it in – VAT exemption up to €15 000. Yes, but this does not apply to the one ÖVP, which applies to all the national parties, that goes down to the district organization, to each municipal organization, to the catastrophes. [[Abg. Hanger:... on site there is only one...!]] – Mr Hanger, you can count on 15 000 €: If the JVP Niederösterreich can hold a festival of up to €15 000 VAT-free in each municipality, then at the end, just under €8.5 million will come out, and then the Minister of Finance will miss €1.7 million in tax revenue. [[Abg. Wheelers:... completely away from reality!]] This is the bill only with the JVP, because the ÖAAB is missing, as the district and adversaries of the SPÖ and ÖVP are missing, because probably the local group of Mr Rädler is missing, there are still many. Look, what you're doing is unfrozen, and it doesn't surprise me that you're so unfrozen because the system has it because it has an unfrozenness system. [[Abg. Rädler:... Hazelsteiner!]] If you deduct your parliamentary party taxes and club charges and so on, then these mandates may deduct it from the tax. If a normal citizen makes a donation to a party, he must not put it off the tax. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] If an entrepreneur does not make an annual financial statements, he will receive draconian penalties if political parties do not report their accounts, then nothing happens at all. The whole system, and so that we do not come back to a special scheme, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The absurdity of the whole story is, you already have the highest party promotion in Europe, but you still don't stop always whenever it goes, stuffing the bags so that you, as you always do, manage to maintain this crumbling red-black power cartel in some way. They stop their pockets full, and they can pay it to taxpayers. And with exactly this unfrozenness must finally end!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23055	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23109	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23131	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring to the changes in the registration obligation, especially what our associations and agencies are about to do. Mr Scherak, we from the ÖVP are protecting ourselves from the volunteer officials in our non-profit associations, the fire brigades and also the political parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They're sketching the system of party financing here. If a local group of the ÖVP, the SPÖ – of your party, there is no such thing as you don't have functionalists at the base – May tree festivals, barbecue festivals, children's carnival events, Kirtag's breakfasts, which are mostly customs events that are carried out largely with the hosts in the respective communities, the proceeds are not high. I do even events with my innkeeper in a 800-inhabitant community, a Kirtagsfrühschhoppen, where we stay 300 €. With this €300 I finance the children's holiday campaign. We're going to Vöcklabruck to OBRA Children's Country, where I can pay for the bus. If this is not non-profit and if the money is not good, ladies and gentlemen, then I don't understand the world anymore. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is no party financing. The money remains with the local group, is used for non-profit purposes, and of course it is also used once if you make a meeting with the host, pay once a round of drinks or if you make a Christmas party – also again at the host – and the party takes over the costs for their volunteer officials there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] For this, the money is spent on small festivals. By the way, last Sunday the big FPÖ Grillfest took place in my neighboring community, in the market town of Andorf, – Mr President Hofer was present, also Landesrat Podgorschek – with almost 1,000 people. You can actually say that's a big feast. There was donated, there was sold – and there, even without a register. Mr Fuchs, to make himself holy here and to point out to others with his finger, but to practice it itself is not all right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You should have the same possibility...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23197	Mr Wöginger, I would ask you not to use the word ‘hypocritical’. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23212	I'm glad you visited the beautiful district of Schärding. I'll take it back, I don't want an order call, not even after 14 years. But it is not all right, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, when you point your finger at us, but even get to this pleasure and also take advantage of it. That's not all right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Simplifications in the register obligation are mainly directed towards non-profit associations and fire brigades. We're uniting at 72 hours, so there's no difference. We also facilitate cooperation between the host world and the club world, so that if people help each other, there is no social security obligation, and we also create a good solution for our gastronomy, as the host is important to us. Therefore, there is the extension of the "cold hands" rule. That is, if a host spends time with the beer island on the local square, he can spend €30 000 in the future without a registration fee. In addition, the cooperation of close relatives is facilitated and clarified so that siblings, parents, children et cetera can help. And with this change, we introduce an auxiliary scheme that can also help non-family people living in the village community on 18 days a year to help the host if a wedding takes place or if a whole bus comes full of guests; therefore very close also to practice. Ladies and gentlemen, so we are from the ÖVP: practice-oriented, active at the municipal level. And we are proud of our volunteer officials in our organizations.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23259	The next speaker is Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23280	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners in the gallery and especially in front of the television sets, which will listen to this discussion after work, after tax duty! I am actually very happy and very happy that Mr Wöginger has laid such a beautiful track for me, because I would not want to see anyone here in this House of Holiness at all, and perhaps I would like to join Mr Fuchs immediately, because I very much liked his statements on transparency. That's why I took this picture with me again, by Dr. Tassilo Wallentin: [[placing a pictureboard on the speaker’s desk, where two cows are hunted with a lasso with the inscription “IKEA” and “Google” from a horse with the inscription “Group Tax”]] The little ones are hanging and the big ones are running. I would like to quote Luxembourg now what the companies have for special conditions there – Mr Lopatka, very well watch out when you conduct the next negotiations, you can get money –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka]] 0.17 percent Tax for corporations and 17 percent Tax liability for the local, Luxembourg companies. – I didn’t want to bring an Austrian example. I think the approach of Mr Fuchs is quite right: Transparency, the turnover limit is much too high, we have to go much deeper. And the very essential thing that has been said is that profits must be invested at the site and must not be deducted abroad. I have recently called a large Linz group, I could mention a few where, at the end of the budget, the lenders say: Now give me the win! That is, I think, the very essential. As Parliament, we have a chance to discuss TTIP and CETA again tomorrow, since we will see how honestly the government parties feel. Mr Lopatka and Mr Rädler, I am curious about the supporting calls when we ask for the Austrian interests to be represented. In conclusion, I should like to say: Of course, since we are in favour of putting people at the centre, and regionalization serves people and globalisation to corporations, as Mr Fuchs rightly said, there belongs to the bar. I have another picture here, which, I believe, is very meaningful to the registered register. [[placing a pictureboard on the speaker’s desk, on which two large glasses filled with paper dominate on a business counter]] This is the practice, this is a small businessman, a small coffee house owner, and since she is a very bad businesswoman, who also sells candy and bread, she needs two cash desks. She said she had enough, because people don't want these evidences, so she put two containers on the counter, in which she immediately collects the evidence, for otherwise she would have to collect the evidence from the walkway one hour after the conclusion of the business. – In order to know how practical we are doing politics here, ladies and gentlemen! These are so small examples of practice. I said at the time that I wanted to move into this house so that we could talk about life. That's life! I would like to continue and thank you very much to the courageous alpine farmers at this point, and to you, Minister, that you have listened to their concerns and said: [[A pictureboard on which a woman is represented in front of a mountain hut and the inscription “Lechneralm closed”]] Okay, we have to increase this 15 000 € limit to 30 000 €! – Thank you here on this road. Mrs Lichtenegger, who is pictured, was one of those concerned. And now the very essential comes: Mr Wöginger has raised the clubs to heaven, and I hope he thinks it is so honest. I mean it honestly. That's the look into the fire brigade kitchen last Sunday. [[a pictureboard with people working on improvised cooking sites in a tent, pointing to the speaker’s desk]] These are only 30 volunteer helpers who prepare, wash, cook in the kitchen area, then there are another 30 serving in it for free, then there are another 30 who convert the firehouse three days before, build the tent building, set up the beer benches, manufacture the cooling systems, and then there are 30 people who clear away three days later. And the whole thing for them to make a few euros. And what do they do with the money? – We save the communities, we save the countries that we ultimately save the Federation, otherwise the communities would have to buy these equipment that the fire brigades finance. [[Mr Lopatka and Mr Amon:Yes!]] Exactly the same with the music chapels, at the sports clubs. There I can now call the sports festival in Aurach last weekend, where hundreds of hard-working club members, family members worked. And, my dear colleague, if the opposition had not supported these honorable associations, the government would have gone over it! That's wonderful if you support that. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts. It is not enough to assess what is being done here for our youth, for our future, which grows up in good surroundings, in good community comradely, is being prepared for life and other important experiences for the whole life. I think that's crucial: As a result of this delay of the government, the associations or small-scale business operators have incurred costs. There were some who said: Okay, that's not a thing to do, I'm investing in such a register! And they now have cancellation fees. I should therefore like to make two motions for resolutions: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's where we have evidence, we can invite those affected at any time to this house. And, Mr Wöginger, don't say again later, you've arranged this. The second motion for a resolution I have is already essential – Mr Wöginger, please stay here, or Mr Rädler. I am really in favour of the withdrawal of party advance organisations and youth organisations as long as the parent party receives Party funding. There the hostess is right, and I can support the hostess with the old Festwirte rule, which has worked, since the hostess has allied with the association and vice versa the association has allied with the hostess and so that these disputes, which have now been launched by the Chamber of Commerce, have not taken place at all. It would therefore be appropriate not to equate the party organisations with the volunteers, and this concerns the following request: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on the abolition of privileges for political parties and forerunners The National Council wants to decide: 'The Federal Government is invited to submit a draft law to the National Council, which will immediately abolish the privileges of political parties and preparatory bodies, since they may not be treated as non-profit organisations.' I'm convinced we'll get full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23382	Both motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23471	Mr Kirchgatterer came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23492	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion is very interesting and very diverse. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight two other things that are important and important for the future of our Austrians and our country, which is labour market, economic and financial policy and the tax reform that came into force at the beginning of this year with a breakover, which has relieved most of the Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – Yes, but, you may not, but with very many, from the middle class to the lowest incomes, the individual benefits more purchasing power, and that is very, very good. The second point is today's decisions, the next items are already being prepared. At the government meeting this week, the new start-up programme for business founders was decided to a large extent. For this purpose, 100 million are in favour of: with the focus of €33 million annually to support additional wage costs for the new businesses and €50 million annually for the SME and the venture capital premium. This is intended to provide additional innovation for the Austrian economy, which is a new force for our economy, for jobs in our country and especially for young businesses, a special strengthening which is rare throughout Europe. The new programme also provides for a new depreciation system for investment. Investments are facilitated, promoted – a measure that benefits workers, employers and Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, this is necessary because we want a modern state to offer citizens a wide range of opportunities and opportunities, an open society that offers security and social security, a positive development that benefits individual people directly – transport, healthcare through education and much more. Planning security is of great importance for businesses – I would like to expressly hold this – especially for small and medium-sized enterprises: knowing in time when changes are coming, for the individual sectors, for the sizes of businesses, practical solutions. And above all, they want to know in good time what is happening to them. This is a task for the future and for now, in which everyone should cooperate and participate. Our advantage is social partnership. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that in all political groups the fight against tax fraud has been at the centre of the speeches, as have legal tax avoidance, companies that operate far away from tax minimization and thus bring the states by almost a third of income through tax revenues, which cannot continue. We in Austria are also invited to strengthen our efforts and to fight with all the clarity to find European solutions to be able to implement equal opportunities for all here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also about the right of opportunity among businesses. Those who pay taxes properly and in good time and comprehensively as planned are in competition with companies that do not. That's not all right, so we don't want to. Today's discussion has shown me that many are ready to pull on a strand, and I also expect a very good result from it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23547	Mrs Lichtenecker is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23568	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For some time now, every speech by Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor emphasizes the importance of strengthening the trust of entrepreneurs in the site. And trust in the business location includes planning security and legal certainty. And that is exactly one point that is absolutely missing in the field of cash register requirements. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] We now have another amendment, where the basic principle applies again: forward, stop, backward! This leads to anger, uncertainty and, of course, confusion. I remember that in recent months there have been many innkeepers and many innkeepers who have asked again and again: What is the valid regulation now? What can you expect? When does the deadline apply? If there is a change again, will there be an increase in borders? All this is a huge problem, and now there is another change. Laws must be practical, they must be coherent and, of course, in line with the principle of equality. And I'll tell you one thing: At the same time, this law, the requirements of the register, and at the same time the amendments to it, are a masterpiece, such as a poor implementation of an important project. It is, of course, a central point that there is fair taxation and it is as simple as possible. We therefore also believe that, for example, the change for the mountain huts, the huts and so on is a wise, comprehensible and indeed supportive. But overall, this law is a flickwork of the special class, as you know. And, of course, small village farmers are angry. You have to explain to them why you have the registration fee at €15 000 and it runs quite differently with the canteens of any associations and apply significantly higher values. All of this leads to annoyance. Mr Wöginger, let us come to the political parties! You have just given an example of the FPÖ, a celebration with 1,000 people and so on. What do you think the citizens think? – They will think: Everyone should pay their taxes, why should there be an exception for political parties? That is not understandable in this form! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] A very central point on this issue is transparency. And it is up to the political parties to be as transparent as possible with their revenue. This law does not meet that with God, and therefore there is also a corresponding amendment from our side: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of citizens, we ask you for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23643	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23726	Mr Schultes. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23747	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! We live in a time when many news comes that scares us. But the only thing that really has economic activity right now is the presence. People get together in the presence. One could almost say that the presence is the new one. But there's still the real thing together, out there with us in the country, I know, there I am witness. There are still people who get together and say that we should have something to do with us, we want to do something together, we make each other a music club, we make each other a beautification club, we make each other a youth group; one is called Catholic youth, the other is called Landjugend and the third is called Young ÖVP – that's exactly what it is. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The tension is that the young people who are there... – That’s already amazing. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] [[Calls.]] This special artificial lust of NEOS on this topic is really strange. And if Mr. Scherak compares the 289 million € turnover of the caritas with the boy ÖVP of Bockfluss, then you know that in reality you didn't arrive. - But don't worry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have many clubs. We have many people who want to spend their time in honor and do something for the others. The only thing they get for it is a nice time because they set each other a goal, reach the goal and then enjoy it together. And a tax reform is taking place in this world, and, like from the bright sky, a register is in the middle of it. They don't need them. We are quite sure that there has been a lot of overpowering. You don't need to talk around. At the time, many of us have already said what we are repairing: We don't need that! And now we fix it according to the motto: Just wake up, just give me a break, but sit down! The right things have to happen. We are proud that we have our clubs outside, that we have the people out there doing the political work on the flat land. We are proud that there are people who say: I'm on something, and I want to do something together! I'll tell you something. The people who are now perhaps making a punch outside or an Advent market or maybe a calendar action or something – perhaps for a political party – are people who want to do this to each other because they don't want what happens in the community. If they make a feast together and do something to each other, they also have the right to take something there and use it for politics. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Pay taxes, that's the only thing!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Only the parties have that!]] And the people who do this are those who will sit there at the next election – in the presidential election. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] They certainly didn't support your candidates, but they fulfil the democratic duty and sit down because you don't come from voters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is reality, and we support people. These people should have the opportunity to live their community the way they want it to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23856	Now comes Mr Mag. Alm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e23878	Mr Schultes! You have been told that in one of the equations with the young ÖVP, Catholic youth and so on, you have forgotten something, and that is NEOS, your colleagues have claimed. [[Abg. Prince: You are loud old Hazelsteiners...!]] - Oh, that's right. Don't worry, we're not. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I was just about to distance myself from it. No one wants you to agree that you are improving the world with your actions, taking money, perhaps taking people out. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The only thing we want is that a law that has already been passed applies to everyone. We do not need to discuss the “ob” of the register. We could do that at this point too, but we do not talk about the “ob”. The register is compulsory, and this obligation applies to all. It must be used by all, without exception. The solutions for this are very, very simple. I don't know if you've made yourself smart on the market before. [[Abg. Prince: This is strange to the world!]] [[Call to the Greens: world foreign!]] - I'm a foreigner of the world? I happen to know a little bit about these things. You can take software-as-a-service solutions, for example from the Linz company offsysy or from the Wieselburg company HelloCash, no problem. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Tamandel and Mr Wöinger.]] There you get a register for free, and if you need a Bon printer, buy it separately for it. Everyone can use it. This can even be used by the Catholic boy ÖVP if she wants. There are no excuses, the application is simple. There is no reason to exclude any organisations from it, not even two organisations that have no financial problems at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] One is the legally recognized churches and religious communities, which we support each year with subsidies of around €4 billion. Minister for Finance Schelling, a proposal for you: The tax deductibility of the church contribution costs us at least more than € 100 million per year, because you could start. You could really get yourself something. Calculate together what this brings over the years! [[Abg. Wöginger: This is a good news, that helps us!]] So there are other privileges and special rights to be granted, which is really no human being can see. [[Abg. Wöger:... the sieve!]] The second is the political parties. We have already heard it enough, we have the second highest party funding worldwide in Austria. There is no reason to give further support and relief to this detour. Let us do this in such a way that the laws of all people are observed and we do not create any pointless exceptions here! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: We are not dependent on Haselsteiner!]] - Neither do we!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24033	Next item is the report by Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24054	Mr President. Minister of State Schelling! It is not easy to approach the matter again with these things. You really have to say that there is a certain foreignness in the world, because they are constantly comparing non-profit associations or organizations – indeed by political parties – which are active at community level and are actually also non-profit, with commercial companies. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] And this comparison is wrong because, of course, there are restrictions on both non-profit organisations and on policy-making organisations which do not exist for commercial companies, namely, the use of revenue on the one hand, on the other hand, there is clearly a cap of €15 000. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] So this is not comparable to a commercial company. I understand, of course, the NEOS – and I do not understand all members of the NEOS – because some should know better. But of course you don't have these structures in the communities and you probably don't have so much to do with the countless organizations, the volunteer fire brigades, the country youth. Talk to the people! One only needs to take the Federal leader of the agricultural youth, Martin Stieglbauer, who has been incredibly committed to a regulation because all of them work on a non-profit basis. They use their free time. They do not do this in commercial terms with the intention of achieving a profit that they then invest in a company, but they do it because they do it in a charitable way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] And this is then to be carnized with difficult technical regulations, which means that they have high investment costs? Please, that's strange! I really want to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the greens, I also understand that they have little joy there. Only the liberals don't understand. This has a little, I think, to do with a little bit of high flight in your mind, so I have the impression. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Well, after!]] - Oh, yeah, I do. Once you talk to your countrymen who are outside on the area fire brigade day, where all the Members who are there are massively attacked for certain considerations, and where then your countrymen – I can tell you the names afterwards – stand up and not understand at all why you are against it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Your own youth organization does not at all understand why you are against it, because, of course, the comparison of national or federal parties who receive a promotion of the parties does not stand by a comparison with local groups in the municipalities who work volunteerly and who use it again for non-profit or for their direct work. No one understands. I will also tell you – because the host has been addressed here – that: Most of the local innkeepers work very closely with the clubs, with the fire brigades, and there is no problem at all. This is an issue that is being discussed in some areas. And I think the solution we are creating here is a good solution for the Austrian associations and non-profit organisations. I am absolutely in favour of supporting and not hindering political organisations in the communities, such as senior organisations, women's organisations, youth organisations, all of them volunteering, in their work, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24124	Next item is the report by Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24145	Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! I take this as an opportunity to present the subject of trade regulations here too. Yesterday we heard some encouraging steps from the government regarding the start-up culture in terms of technology-oriented start-ups, company start-ups. On this occasion, however, we should not forget that, in addition to technology-oriented companies, there are also 300 000 one-person companies in Austria, who expect as much reliefs as they do. In the same way, we should not forget that it is not only about the reasons themselves, that is not only about the entrepreneur/entrepreneurship, but also about being an entrepreneur or an entrepreneur, so to make this everyday life easier and not only to facilitate the reason itself. If you look at what is the basis in Austria today, you can see a trade order that is 157 years old. That is quite remarkable, what has been accumulated here over the decades, centuries, you can almost say. And if there's an announcement here that we want to be boldly reformed in autumn, too, then at least we're on the side of the government and we're going to be constructive here. 82 regulated commercial areas and 21 partially regulated commercial areas are very much, too much from our point of view, and this urgently requires a reforestation. If you look at this in detail – and the examples have been discussed here in Parliament several times, I don't want you to be so interested in it – you see, there are just enough absurdities: As a graduate of a fashion school, why do you need a two-year practice in order to be allowed to bend commercially? Why, for example, can you sew parachutes without a certificate of qualification, but for clothing you have to be able to prove a proficiency? I do not want to stop you too much with these examples. It seems important to us that we are once boldly searching through this, but also dealing with the economic chamber structures. If the Chamber of Commerce is now almost a bit opposed, this has had to do with the fact that, of course, this is about the fact that many of the bodies will no longer be necessary, many old-fashioned structures in the Chamber of Commerce are being questioned. We should also make it quite clear to Mr Leitel that we want to act bravely as the National Council and that it makes little sense if he is immediately linked to the state reform, because then little will go on. From my point of view, that is essential. I believe that with a new trade order, the old craft can be revived and new self-employed can be added, even as far as our asylum seekers are concerned, who can revive here in the country old craftsmanship, repair shoes, repair bicycles, open small shops, some of the changers from Syria are now known. There are certainly some possibilities. To support and support this, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Accordingly, the debate will also take place in autumn, because if in many cases the Chamber of Commerce will notice that it is also going to turn its resources off, it will, I believe, be another exciting debate to which we want to contribute constructively. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24211	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24303	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24324	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment on the host and club package. One thing we must already be aware of: that those responsible in the associations are all very uncertain by the association tax and the register discussion. You really have to say that. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes, they need to be better informed!, but of course we must not forget one thing: It is precisely these individuals who volunteer and work for society. I also see this as the mayor of a small town with 1 300 inhabitants. I think I can say that I know the club structure of my community. We have 36 clubs, many of them of course non-profit, three fire brigades, a sports club that serves six young teams. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: At the clubs... political parties!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] This, of course, is something quite, very important, and they make a huge contribution to society. That is what our recognition belongs to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: The same applies to everyone!]] I would like to say something earlier when a club festival took place, it always took place in accordance with the hosts. [[Abg. Loacker: Now are the clubs or the parties meant?]] Unfortunately, this has been lost, you have to say quite honestly. This has, of course, led to tensions. It is also necessary to say that the associations, the club festivals, have always grown larger, and of course, the uneven treatment due to taxation leads to displeasure, and the displeasure of the gastronomy is also to be understood. But with the new rules, we have a rules for the associations and, above all, for those responsible, who give certainty as it looks in the future. In connection with the gastronomy, I would like to mention the following – because I am also in a small community –: I already feel the reliefs for the gastronomy as a very, very important point, because there is also social life in the communities. There are a lot of small hostess who are not allowed to overwhelm with increased bureaucratic effort when a family member is involved or when some helpers are to come to the aid of peaks. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But you do it all the time!]] These reliefs are something quite, very important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I am really pleased that in this new regulation we will also put the cooperation of the associations and hosts in the foreground again. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Please?]] I believe that this will allow many inconsistencies to be resolved and a common relationship can take place. In this sense, I am delighted and thank all the volunteers for their commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24440	Since there are short-term amendments or additional amendments tabled and a short break in the sitting is not sufficient to prepare the vote, I shall put the votes on agenda items 12 and 13 until after the vote on agenda items 15 and 16. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24470	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would, of course, also like to deal with the host and association package in my contribution to the debate, because both groups are extremely important to our Republic. When you look at the numbers: 3.3 million Austrians are volunteering – in 122 000 clubs, 8 million volunteer hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We see that the smaller the organizational units, the smaller the structures become, the stronger the office of honor, the stronger the cohesion, because there is a term that is so insidiously important to us as an ÖVP: the concept of self-responsibleness. These people do not always wait for the state to organize something, but take things into their own hands. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] This is so important to us. There has been this uncertainty in the past, and that is why this package, which is being put on the table today, is extremely important, because it will, so to speak, combat this uncertainty. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] On the other hand, I would like to say that, of course, the hosts are extremely important to us. We have an area that I do not hide, which is often overregulated with certainty. They are all familiar with allergen information regulation, non-smoker protection, fire protection regulations, worker protection regulations. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Change!]] We need deregulation here. No question at all. These tensions that have existed between the two groups are not good for our Republic. I think a good relationship between clubs and hosts is enormously important. I am deeply convinced that this package is a right step to put together these two groups on a better basis again, because this package simply brings improvements and legal certainty to our associations. The expansion of the small club festivals, the non-profit associations and the concept of public utility are very important to me. We are talking about the non-profit associations that are excluded from the trade order. We are talking about the non-profit associations that are tax-privileged, and not about the other associations. An association is not necessarily non-profit and thus also tax-privileged. On the other hand, we have improvements for the host in the area of "cold hands" regulation, which should not be underestimated. This aid package is also a very important step. This helps, I think, even the host to be able to organize these things better. What has not yet been addressed: We are improving the employment of family members. The question of compulsory social security has been clarified clearly and better here. So this package helps the clubs, this package helps the host and is therefore good for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24528	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. [[21:00:00]] 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1152, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Liability Act-Kärnten adopts and the Bundes Liability-Oberschländergesetz, the ABBAG-Law, the Bundesgesetz zur Entrepreneurship und the Financial Market Stability Act are amended (1245 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24560	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24587	Mr President. Madam President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! This item on the agenda is about a government proposal concerning five laws, one about the adoption of the liability law card and four times about an amendment: Bundeshaftungsabbreckengesetz, ABBAG-Law, Bundesgesetz zur Entrepreneurship und Finanzmarktstilungsgesetz. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Perhaps in advance, Minister Schelling, something positive: They want to draw at least one final line under an endlessly seeming story of Hypo/Heta, which has already lasted for seven years. Unfortunately, this is already over with the positive, because what is massively disturbing to us – and that is why we will not agree to this law – is the transparency, which unfortunately is on 12, 13, 14. ==References====External links== This transparency continues seamlessly to this day, and you turn into a series with the then Mastermind chiefs Schieder and Pröll, who for unexplained reasons took back a bank from Bavaria, which was no need. From there, as long as it only went, it was not informed, i.e., cover up, hide, hide as long as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Parliament has not been informed of what has been agreed in this Treaty. It was much worse, you didn't even know for yourself what you had concluded with this contract, in which you gave the Bayern a say and only two years later did you know that it was in this Treaty. Then Mr Pröll clearly noticed this and left the sinking ship. Then Mrs. Fekter came and, in turn, did not inform anyone about the fact that a bad bank demanded by Ditz and Schollen should be founded. In addition, another billions of damage has arisen. Then Mr Spindelegger came, who obviously did not know what to do, did not find the emergency brake or was unable to pull it. You, Minister Schelling, have to be helped by the fact that you did so in 2014. They pulled the emergency brake, but unfortunately the train was already in the graves, as they say. Today, Dr. Schelling, unfortunately, you are also there, you do not inform us about what you have agreed to, the Memorandum of Understanding will not show us. Neither the Carinthian state government nor you here in Vienna present the agreements between the country of Carinthia and the federal government, in turn the red Reichhalfs in Carinthia and the black Reichhalfs in Vienna cover up. [[Federal Minister Schelling: But you broke it, didn't you?]] – Ah, no, you just need to listen to me, then you know how the damage came about. You don't need to talk out. [[Abg. Lichtenecker:... but already has the FPÖ in Carinthia...!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can't believe that any more people believe that the country's liability is responsible for our having 12 billion today's damage. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] This also proves the documentation in the Hypo-Research Committee, which is why you have prevented it as long as you could. [[Abg. What's left now?]] Today we do not know what happens in this mining unit, in the asset recovery of the HETA, there is no insight into asset recovery. [[Abg. Tamandl: What does this have to do with the country's liability?]] There will be no insight into asset recovery. All the ladies and gentlemen who have been sent from the Hypo/Heta to the committee, Mrs Tamandl, were not exempt from business secrecy or from bank secrecy. [[Abg. Tamandel: What does this have to do with liability, colleague Angerer?]] That means they didn't have to tell us anything. Today, we still carry out a wide range of legal proceedings with Bavaria of €4.8 billion, which no one can tell us about. Mr. Dr. Schelling, who sits behind me on the government bank and laughs about it, has been responsible for the €3 billion in the last two years. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] 1.2 billion € have been transferred to Bavaria, and 1.7 billion € have been transferred to liability in the SEE sales – the South-East Europe network. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The law you present today contains something that does not even conform to your own rules; that does not say the Erwin Angerer, that says the budget service. [[Federal Minister Schelling:... thank God!]] The presentation of the financial impact in the impact-oriented impact assessment is missing and does not meet the requirements of § 17 BHG 2013 and the corresponding regulation of the Federal Minister for Finance. That means your law doesn't even conform to your own rules. That is the cover-up that you continue today, and that is why we reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24749	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24770	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! Mr Angerer from Carinthia, from the Freedom Party! Here at the speaker's desk, where you just stood, you enjoy immunity. If you had to testify under oath, you would be in front of the prosecutor tomorrow, so untrue – “lying” is not to be said – your statements have been here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You've been sitting in the investigation committee for 15 months, the final report will disprove what you said here, he'll prove that it's not true what you said. I would like to say one more thing: As a Carinthian, I am ashamed of what happened in Carinthia at the Hypo, at this biggest financial debacle under the leadership of freedom, under the leadership of a national freeman and under a Minister of Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rauch]] I apologise for my party for being there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] On the fact that this law is being passed here today, you as a Carinthian – you were just like me at the time – would have to be very happy that we can look back into the future in Carinthia. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You know what the hypo Carinthia cost, you know what the hypo cost the federal government, and you know what Bavaria has paid for the hypo so far. Now I'm telling you the sum so that you know it – 15 months you were in committee, but obviously you didn't know anything –: €400 million the damage costs the hypo, although it goes far beyond €10 billion. The federal government has already paid €5.5 billion, €4.8 billion has been paid to Bavaria. The ignorance on 11, 12, and 13. It is also on the table on December: Carinthia had secret papers in the holding at that time, where they had prepared for this meeting. You claim the exact opposite here. Mr Finanzminister, I would like to thank you on behalf of my party and on behalf of Carinthia for the fact that Carinthia can now look back into the future, that we know Carinthia, what we have to do for the hypo treatment, that the federal government assumes and assumes the responsibility for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] – We in Carinthia can now plan again. As I said, Mr Angerer, I would be ashamed!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24838	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24859	Madam President. For something that is actually more than a multi-organ failure, a multi-organ gauze – not to mention anything worse – is relatively easy to assign to mutual responsibility over long distances. It's clear that everyone has a certain responsibility. I do not wish to focus on what is mainly a committee of inquiry, because I still do not fully understand how and under what assumptions we want to fulfill the promise, which has always fascinated me very much, and for which the Minister of Finance now in office has come a lot of recognition that at the end of this bill no tax money – which was correctly meant to be federal tax money – goes more into this whole box. But later on. Now I'm coming to the failure chain again. One thing you have to say again and again: Whatever the country's liability or otherwise, it does not authorize a bank board or the Supervisory Board of a bank or the credit committee to do such things. When you look into it as it is, there are only politically occupied people sitting there – ah, now I have my playing money, extra for the hypo, not with – that these 20-million packages have moved over in half-minute. But there were no revisionists or caretakers sitting there. There the project promoters from the Balkans were sitting there, which have already discharged the money there on start. This could be seen as early as 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007. When Holub and I tried to find out, the supervision didn't hit an earwash, but only when everything collapsed. The country's liability is of course a problem for the future options for action. We don't envy anyone who was in charge. But one thing has to be clear: Only because, for example, the control bank has outside liabilities, which are much higher than what we had at the hypo, can it not be automatically assumed that those placed under this shield in this way Businesses just can't do you anything they want, and build billions of pieces: one, one, one. At the mortgage we will get over €10 billion, the fears are true – only for the taxpayer! So that can't be an argument why supervision in Carinthia, but also at the federal level didn't work. The fact that the country's liability has to be restricted earlier is correct. By the way: It was the united federal states – we have seen it in the files – that have intervened in a far-reaching way that we want to have these country liabilities as much as possible for ten years or more. The Karl-Heinz Grasser, who is not polished in this direction – because he has been called – has not had so much on the hat with that, but he has had to do with Monti this country's liability history, because that has already conflicted with EU law. The Commission wanted zero, which wanted a radical outcome after it had already been tipped in Germany. A compromise has been reached with these miserable three years. That was bad, because a lot happened in the three years. But you can't pretend to be guilty alone. Now I am coming back to the federal states, which all wanted this to happen to each other. In 2009, it was already recognizable a few days before this so-called nationalization: Uhh! They can't do this! – I do not know to this day why people say nationalization, I do not understand nationalization any more, because the bank was state-owned, in the majority property of the Free State of Bavaria, that is all just an art suffocation in the justification rhetoric. Whatever! A few days before, you've seen: The Bavaria push those on the wall. What have we done to Greens? – On Saturday, Sunday, Monday, these negotiations were, we made a request here in the house on Wednesday or Thursday before, to create an insolvency right for the federal states on the spot, for we had already seen – the key word of national liability – what may happen there. Well, that's never what you've been doing. That, as you argue, Mr. Finanzminister, in the middle of the river, we cannot bring this directly into line with the law, I still understand that. They argue that after 2017, when all of this has ended, you have to take a look at the matter. You can still understand that. But provided that this entire chain of history does not list the individual restaurants, it has of course been good that there has been this debt cut. Now, of course, it has been clear that the liability cannot be cut away without further notice, we have seen this also in the Constitutional Court judgment. So you still have to buy out the Carinthian bonds, not 100 percent. So the debt ratio goes formally to the creditors who were still there, de facto up to 46 percent. We actually expect – or you always explain this to us – a return from this decomposition bank, which is much higher. You'll have to upgrade that anyway. But I don't see how it's supposed to be that there's no tax money, even federal tax money. In fact, if the 75 percent claims are also exchanged on bonds – with 0 percent interest, but 100 percent payout after 13 years –: Who's covering this delta? Perhaps you expect the House to see how much has to come back from the decommissioning bank – in our account far more than this 60 percent – that this is still happening with zero. If you calculate interest rate effects, we would have to land at 88 percent. So that's what I'm looking at, how this should come back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] That's the unfortunate thing now. Now you can say: The country's liability forces us legally into a position that will force us to do so. brings, far more than this 75 percent that have now been offered, once again to double. I don't think the creditors would have been so bad with 75 or 80 percent because of me. Of course, one has been concerned that – the word financial place, what we always hear there, reputation – which could really go into action. I would have looked at that, because what's to get in Carinthia is far less than that. But I see: Finally, it was again a certain risk prevention strategy. But it will still be clear why this solution, which is being decided here today, should cost nothing more. So there I'm excited. If, at the end of the day, 100 percent is paid – everyone accepts the offer – then we only have 13 years at the low interest rates that are now running. That's actually in cash somewhere between 90 and 94 percent, maybe 92 – what I know, you can expect that too – then it's still a nice difference to the 75 percent, and there it goes, well noticed, always by billions. Now I'd be interested to see how it's all done with zero. I hope you will explain it to us again. We have really tried to calculate this in all directions of heaven and cross and across. But from the basic scaffolding, this is not to be maintained. Unfortunately, I have to say. Unfortunately! We will discuss the failure chain in another place. I hope that this statement will come true. We are currently doubting that. Since this is not clearly understandable, we cannot give it our consent either.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24934	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e24956	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I always ask myself the question: Why does Werner Kogler not quote himself when he talks about emergency nationalization? What was Werner Kogler's reaction on Monday, 14th. December 2009? That's where he said – yes, he'll come back with that, yes, that's your quote, that's what you said: [[Abg. Kogler: Now he's coming back with that!]] The nationalization was probably inevitable. – Quote Werner Kogler. You can read it everywhere, you can even look at it, it's still available with original picture in the TV library, that's what everyone can watch, right now or tomorrow, maybe it's possible to watch Colleague Kogler himself again. That was his reaction: The need for nationalization was probably inevitable. – That was his first reaction back then. He was also eternally opposed to insolvency, forever for a bathroom bank. [[Call the Greens.]] When the Bad Bank came, he was against the Bad Bank and for insolvency. Maybe that could be such a thing – how to say? - To be opposition genes: I always have to be against what the government is doing, even though I was for it the day before. What is this about today? It is about how we – so Carinthia, but also as Austria – come out of these country's liabilities. To this end, we must ask ourselves the question: How did these national arrests come about? And what Mr Kogler said, it is true that not only Carinthia had these country liabilitys, but seven federal states had these liabilities, that there was then a decision in the Carinthian Landtag that these liabilitys, under quotation marks, may be “only” for three years. This decision was a wordable one in six other days of the country. In every day of the country, it is also determined that a member of the government is the country's caretaker, that is, first of all the right and the task of controlling this bank, looking at every note in that bank and getting a stop button to be able to say at any time: No, the risk is too high, I'm pressing the stop button, there's no longer any national liability! Not everything went well in six federal states, but nothing happened there that affected the federal government. A federal country did not get on the brake, but rose to the gas, and was fully driven against the wall, and that is Carinthia. Who were the financial agents who had the task of controlling the risk that this bank could carry, and to ensure that these country's liabilities do not explode so much that the country can no longer carry them? – Piperberger, Haider, later Dobernig, there were three blue finance councils who had the responsibility to control this risk that had the power to stop the country's liability and who had the opportunity to ask in the bank for each note to control and say: [[Abg. Anger: And black Finance Minister!]] No, stop, there's a risk too high! These three failed to meet their responsibilities. And now, as a liberal there, as a liberal from Carinthia, and to those who do away with this damage, and the Minister of Finance, who finally ensures or helps us get out of the country's liabilities to give notes of positions here, you have to take care of this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You should take responsibility for what you have done in Carinthia and also in Austria! What you're doing here is not responsible! Here to come to the speaker's desk and to forgive notes, it's like I'm going to a main square and I'm emptying shit out there – and then I'm going to sit down and watch the room and say: Well, he can't handle the shovel very well! Instead of taking the shovel into your hand and helping to clear it away, stand on the edge and take for granted notes! – This is not the way politicians should act, and not politicians with responsibility at all. This is anti-politics what you're doing here, and this has not lost anything in the house at all. It may be in line with the way in which the liberals, when they were in the Federal Government, have proved how irresponsibly they act. This is true, but I do not want to have anything to do with such a policy that you have done here. Critical So you're not the ones who've taken away the damage that's working on it! It may be that when someone cleans up the shit, he gets dirty, yes, but to blame him for being dirty isn't right. It's about the question of who unloaded the shit, and this responsibility is yours!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25034	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25055	Madam President. High house! Federal Minister! It is interesting to note that the speakers are not talking about red, black and blue at all, but they are taking trips to history. [[Call the ÖVP: Next!]] I would suggest that you can write all of this in your Group reports on the Hypo-U Committee. The subject of discussion now, today is actually this federal law, with which the liability law creditors are passed. Wei- ter you don't have to read, that says everything. The Federation assumes liability for Carinthia, and this probably also explains that you want to deal with other issues today rather than with what is on the table and what should be voted on. The Federation assumes the liability for Carinthia – liability, which has been taken in an irresponsibly manner, €25 billion was at the height of the project. Liabilities for bonds that have been irresponsibly drawn by creditors who have not found anything to draw bonds held by a federal government with a budget of € 2 billion, while the liabilities have amounted to up to € 25 billion. This double irresponsibility: from the creditors, but also from the country of Carinthia. Who now has the consequences for this irresponsibility, for this responsibilitieslessness? The taxpayers! And what does this have to do with the market economy? – Market economy would mean that those who took the risk also take over the costs, but in the end the risk will always be transferred to taxpayers. This has nothing to do with the market economy. Mr Federal Minister, now be I'm sure you'll say: Well, the creditors have already been involved, this Bail-in, this creditor has indeed taken place! Only: You promised us an account in the debate with the financial speakers, where we could have understood what this participation of the creditors really is. We haven't gotten this bill until today. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Probably because of that, too, because my opinion that de facto the creditors go home with 100 percent, but the truth comes the next. This is similar to the account of financial market supervision, which claims that insolvency would cost € 1 billion more than what is now being done, but also those do not provide an account that you can understand objectively – everyone can think about it. But what's really the worst thing about this is worse than the fact that the creditors are left out there completely outside and do not make any more contribution, is this taboo break: the taboo break that the covenant is in favour of the liabilities of a federal country. Without a legal obligation to do so, the Federation jumps in and assumes liability for Carinthia. This is a free letter for all federal states, for any financial responsibility in the future. The countries can do what they want in the future, because they know: With this federal law, in the final effect, they always have the opportunity to overturn costs and risks, which will eventually hit the federal government. On the contrary, it would have been a historic opportunity, Mr Federal Minister, a historic opportunity for the Federal Government to finally launch a federalism reform that deserves this name. Finally, we are starting a reform towards federalism, which is really one, and not this donor-hospital federalism, where the Heads of State only spend the money, but are not responsible for revenue. You have missed this historic opportunity, which would have been a mass of negotiations that you could have included, for example, in the financial compensatory negotiations. Unfortunately, this opportunity has been missed – it is really a pity.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25098	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25121	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This liability law allows for the removal of consequences from the hypo disaster. It is a common process of federal government and country – the country of Carinthia – so that the federal state can reach an agreement with the HETA believers. This makes it possible to facilitate a financial burden that is burdening all of us. Why is this decision so important and necessary today? – Let’s blend back to the year 2000: From then on, the malaise was known to have reached its end. As of 2000, and especially in the years following, the country of Carinthia has taken over liabilities in billions, more than ten times the national budget, for which the country has received liability commissions. How have these resources been used? [[Abg. Fekter: Play money! Political play money!]] – The political leaders at the time have financed prestige projects, numerous prestige projects without control, I can remind you of the sea stage, for example, of a airline, the football stadium. Who were those responsible? – We have already heard: Pipeberger, Haider and Dobernig. They could all have pressed the stop button, but they didn't. They did not assume their responsibility. Where was the responsibility for the liabilities at the time, when money was consumed? Where is the responsibility now, namely the responsibility of those who have caused this debacle, where do they help to clean up this scrapping pile? Why am I asking you this? – Because the FPÖ today does not agree with this law and therefore again does not demonstrate any solution competence. Characteristically, this reminds us of Great Britain and Brexit. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all those who agree to this law today. They enable you to find a solution with the HETA glass caps. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25159	The next item is the report by Mr Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25180	Why do we even have to decide on the liability law card today? – It is quite simple: because the FPÖ acted responsibly in Carinthia! The truth is that she has run the only clientele and self-division policy and has put the fate of the Carinthias and Carinthias at risk with the hypo disaster – so it has been, and this cannot be discussed away. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen in the hall, dear spectators in the gallery and in front of television. The fact is: The liabilities entered into by the Hypo Alpe-Adria by 2007 currently amount to around €11 billion, and the fact is that in the course of the ITA, a participation of creditors is possible through debt cuts. This means that the Ministry of Finance can submit an offer to creditors and at least two thirds of creditors must agree to it. Now to the law itself, so that you also know what's inside and what it's about: A Memorandum of Understanding was agreed with the creditor groups in March of this year. That is to say, the creditors are offered a discount rate of 75 percent of the nominal and the subordinate believers a quota of 30 percent. Through the present Liability Act, the Federal Government can cover liabilities for credit operations of the Carinthia compensation fund up to €11 billion. Article 2 can increase the limits of the Federal Liability Law by €12.5 billion. For those creditors who prefer a cash loss, the country of Carinthia must set up a compensation fund of €1.2 billion, in the event that 100 percent of creditors agree, with – and one thing is very important – the creditors have already committed themselves to accept this agreement in the Memorandum of Understanding in the event of the achievement of the two-thirds majority. That's why it's finally happening. The final chapter in the hypo disaster could thus be written, because if the religious union succeeds, the country of Carinthia is free of liability with a blow. This could at last end the uncanny chapter of freedom of the country's policies. However – and we have already heard this today and have been confirmed by Mr Angerer – FPÖ has neither agreed to the Financial Committee nor will it now agree to this law. This leaves only one end to me: The liberals are simply afraid and appalling of this law. They are probably afraid precisely because this decision sets out the actual level and extent of free government responsibility, thus making the mismanagement of blue politicians and the related burden on all Austrian taxpayers definitely and clearly visible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We, the SPÖ, at least agree with this law, and every citizen and every citizen can take a picture of the FPÖ on the basis of their voting behaviour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25238	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1152 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give the draft law at third reading an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, so the draft law is adopted at third reading. [[21:32:58]] 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1186, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the Securities Supervisory Act 2007, the Investment Fund Act 2011 and the Takeover Act (1246 d.b.) 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1174, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing the Federal Act on the effective functioning of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 on the transparency of securities financing operations (SFT- Implementing Act) and amend the Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act and the Corporate Employees and Self-Employee Prevention Act (1247, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25308	This brings us to points 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. - Please. [[Abg. Krainer: But the Holub will be happy!]] [[Abg. Kogler: (on the way to the speaker's desk)]] – You have been spoken, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25358	Why have I been reported to speak? Where is this amendment, have you already brought it in? Our group has been informed that a recent amendment has been tabled, and I am just saying something about a subject that is about €150 million. That's exactly what it's all about covering a pleite of semi-criminal boys – Auer von Welsbach. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] Of course, investors should be protected to a certain extent, since there is also a protection of up to €20 000 and so on and so on, even though one has to ask itself whether everyone has to be protected – even if only up to €20 000 – who believes any windy promises if a 10% interest promises, and the public should always be held. – Be around it, because it’s about a completely different construction, which is unfortunately faulty in the result. In fact, there is a fund that is responsible for such liability issues, which should, of course, also be disincentived from the industry, just as the banks are now doing. Only the teaching rules that exist are so minimal that, once something happens, the fund itself is a pleite candidate. The one who's supposed to take off the pleite is himself in the pleite. Now I already understand that one argues: Well, how do we stand when it comes back to the round – financial square, what do I know – how does all this look like? Yes, but the solution must also be that over time we should also remove the contributions to be paid from this sector. That is why the proposal for a resolution would at least be a completely different one from the one that is now being tabled by law if this amendment were to be tabled. Not only am I not satisfied with the solution, as you hear, but above all I am also outraged by this procedure. I'm just saying something about that. We would have had the opportunity in the Financial Committee to discuss exactly that. After all, there was a government template in the house – which would not have been completely alien or new for us – that had a similar content. It was taken from the agenda. But it has not been announced with anything that exactly the one coming back today. If you are acting like this, I say to my group in the Committee on Finance: I have already done this with the appointment as President of the Court of Auditors. This was not just pathetic, it was almost negotiable and parliamentary. I do not want to be involved in these joint decisions at all. But what you've been doing here lately, how Parliament's work is actually being shamed – you can keep it! We will not agree to this and also to the other two points underlying it. Although one could argue whether the glass is half-full or half-empty – it is certainly more than half full in one point – but we will not agree to that, even if this amendment to this from a parliamentary point of view and from a parliamentary practice is really grounded in the last second! Now I'm once excited how you explain this. I should like to comment on something, and it has not even been submitted – I think that is impossible! If Mr Krainer comes now, or if he is still in charge, the committee chairman must also be there, if you turn to the speaker's desk here, I can give you the following message: Not enough, sit down!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25418	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25439	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Maybe a few more on-the-spot considerations. I would like to express a few thoughts on the revision of the Stock Exchange Act, and I think I can say that the government has really succeeded in putting these drafts into national law with the presentation, which was discussed and negotiated by the Financial Committee. Why is it very reasonable? – Because this time we have succeeded in avoiding excessive gold-plating and thus maintaining the competitive situation of the domestic economy. Both the companies listed on the stock exchange and the financial services sector as a whole have received a very positive view that the Federal Government is doing so very practically. In the financial committee too, amendments have already been discussed and discussed and, as I mentioned earlier, have been accepted very positively. However, I would also like to express a point of view on Whistleblowing and insider business: It is to be welcomed that cleanliness will have an even higher priority in the future, because cleanliness in this market is very, very important and right – important for a serious economic location, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, it is also about continuing to work in the future to increase, expand and attract the importance of the Vienna Stock Exchange, because this is an important prerequisite for Austria's economic location. Under the rule we can only wish the market capitalization of the Vienna Stock Exchange to return to an international level. However, three conditions are important to which we and the Federal Government will have to devote ourselves very much in the future. One is the simplification of Austrian tax law. We know from the Minister of Finance that, for example, a re-codification of the EStG is planned – an absolutely right step. It is also very important to ensure medium and long-term planning security, including legal certainty in our country, that changes in legislation do not constantly irritate planning security. And, of course, it is also worth mentioning the expansion of the capitalised pension scheme in this area, because this is a very important lever in terms of market capitalisation in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the real economy and the capital market are, of course, closely linked. A well-functioning stock exchange absolutely correlates with a functioning economic location, and there are, of course, very important economic indicators, which are also triggered by them. We have investments that are being put in place, the value-added of businesses, economic growth and, of course, this, I believe, then, all those who represent the citizens here – the positive effects on employment that this creates. In addition, the following comments were made: In this context, I see the joint efforts of the Minister of Finance and the Foreign Minister to bring international financial organisations and European institutions to Austria as very positive. This is also a positive signal to strengthen Austria's economic location. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25494	Next, Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25515	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! The main objective of the amendments to these laws is to be able to act more effectively against abuse in the financial markets and thus to ensure greater security in financial markets. Two things are essential to me in this regard: on the one hand, the EU-wide approach, i.e. by means of criminal increases against market abuse, on the other hand the protection of employees who report a possible market abuse process. The present legislative amendments take account of this concern. No one knows the companies better than the employees, they are most likely to notice inconsistencies. However, the report often fails because of fear of the workplace. These changes in the law ensure protection through anonymity and confidentiality. We know that in times like this, with the present modern technology, a lot is possible. The more weight it takes to ensure that employees are protected. The increase in the level of punishment for those who operate market manipulations is an essential step in order, for example, to actually prevent insider transactions more and more. All of this is a big challenge, but we are facing this challenge here. And this challenge is also facing the EU. It is essential that the new EU Market Abuse Regulation sets capital market law in Europe on a completely new footing and provides for a uniform EU-wide procedure. Only together do we have a chance to have a positive impact on the financial market within the EU or, in cooperation with the other countries, to take action against market abuse. Only together we can do it. That is why I am also looking for everyone here in the hall to vote for a common solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25555	Next, Mr Magistrate. Big deal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25577	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am submitting the following proposals, which corresponds to the Council of Ministers template and which was distributed to the opposition a few hours ago We are submitting the request to prevent the insolvency of the AeW, our securities supervision, and thus to allow investment services to continue in Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: Ah, a second before the vote would be good! Very serious, aren't you?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The legislator should at least know theoretically what he decides!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] We are bringing it in today because, in principle, a resolution has only been negotiated with the SPÖ today, which is intended to prevent such payments from being carried out or due again in the future. Together with the motion for a resolution, I would like to seek the approval of this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25669	The amendment is properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25742	Next, Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25774	Madam President. The request, which has already been made to the public and everyone by the government template, has now been submitted. There is another accompanying motion for a resolution that I am submitting on this matter. – It is about the fact that a court has decided that more than €150 million of investors are to be replaced for losses from the investor compensation. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, for the gallery!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] And that is something that has never been intentioned, neither by the European Directive nor by the national legislator. But a court judgment is a court judgment and must be followed. The investor compensation decided here in the House in the 1990s is not designed to bear such cases because they are not planned either. What is happening now is that the taxpayer comes in, pays for this court judgment and has to pay € 148 million there, anything else than anyone here wants, but a court judgment forces us to do so. The aim of the motion for a resolution is to ensure that such cases are no longer repeated. I believe that all Members here agree that on the one hand, it is necessary to respect court judgments, on the other hand, but on the other hand, to ensure that a court cannot again judge that the taxpayer pays for investment losses. There are several variants listed in this motion for a resolution – certainly not final. The first is to clarify by law – as other countries have – that such cases can never be attributed to investor compensation. The second thing is to see that this investor compensation is better taught, either by those who already pay, for example, having to pay more, or by expanding the deposit, because other WPDLUs also provide securities or sell securities. These are different variants listed in the motion for a resolution. There are a number of things that need to be examined – European conformity, which has a lot to do with investor compensation directives, with other directives – which was not possible at the moment. There are reasonable discussions with the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance that we are coming to a solution at the same time, because no one here in this House sees that this is to be paid. However, we live in a rule of law, where we have to stick to judgments of courts, even if they do not fit one. This is therefore the substance of both the request that Mr Groiß has just read – which is already known by the Government's proposal – and the motion for a resolution. I'm seeking approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25835	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e25900	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This brings us to the votes which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. [[Abg. Brosz: Business treatment, please!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the voting procedure. [[Abg. Brosz: You have presented the Croquis in the speech by Mr Krainer! That's...!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the voting process. I closed the debate. We are in the vote. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Draft federal law amending the Stock Exchange Act, the Securities Supervisory Act, the Investment Fund Act and the Takeover Act in 1246 of the Supplements. [[Abg. Kogler: This is getting worse and worse! Undemocratic shop!]] There is a supplementary amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. May. Mr Groiß, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, exactly two minutes ago, and it's about 150 million € – just for the protocol!]] Deputies Ing. May. Mr Groß, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 5 into Article 2. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. May. Groiß, Krainer, Members of Parliament on the evaluation of the legal framework for investor compensation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 161.) [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kogler and Mr Brosz.]] [[Call the ÖVP:No calls!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Draft federal law which amends the SFT full-time law and the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Investment Fund Act, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act and the Corporate Employees and Self-Employee Prevention Act, including title and receipt in 1174 of the Supplements. [[Abg. Kogler: At least theoretically there is the possibility that you know what you're voting on!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:54:27]] Vote on agenda items 12 and 13
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26047	We are now moving to the vote on Agenda items 12 and 13, which I make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on agenda item 12: Draft EU Amendment Act 2016 in 1243 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. May. Groiß, Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, colleagues, a motion for an amendment tabled by Mrs Scherak, colleagues and a request for a separate vote by Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs vor. First of all, I would like to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals and the request for separate voting, in accordance with the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Ing. May. Groiß, Krainer, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning Articles 1 Sections 11 to 17. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall be voting separately on Article 2(3)(a) to (3c) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Ing. May. Mr Groß, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have also tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 9 into Article 3. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Lichtenecker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment which has the content of the deletion of paragraphs 3 to 5 in Article 10. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Members Dr. Scherak, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which includes the deletion of the following points in Rule 10 – we are in the voting process, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. –: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kogler and Mr Loacker]] Point 3, point 12 lit. (b) and (c) in point 4 and point 62 in point 5. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Ing. May. Mr Groß, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment concerning Article 10(4). I am looking for those members of the House who are in favour of an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[Abg. Kogler: With this government there is no state to do!]] We shall immediately be voting separately on Article 10(3) and point 61 in point 5 as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of Article 10, not yet voted on, as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 11(3) to (7), as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Ing. May. Groß, Krainer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 12. Whoever is for this, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Rossmann, colleagues on public transparency against tax dumping. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen, concerning ‘Registrierskassen Stornofehle’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Dietrich, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of privileges for political parties and forerunners. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Draft Federal Act amending the Trade Regulations in 1994, together with the title and receipt in 1244 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the draft law the approval in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Köchl, ladies and gentlemen, on compensation for trade regulations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[22:01:29]] 17. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1149, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG, with which the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on civil law provisions relating to the transport of building materials (3. Land transport amendment agreement – 3. GruVe-Äve) (1225, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26136	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item. I welcome Mr. Dr. Brandstetter. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr... [[Abg. Brosz: Business treatment!]] Excuse me, honourable Member. I have a word for business treatment. Please, Mr Brosz.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26173	I would like to maintain this for the Minutes and make suggestions for the next President: At the last item on the agenda, TOP 15, we received the Croquis both for the item on the agenda 15 and for the part-session on item 12 on the agenda during the last speech, namely during the speech by Mr Krainer. These are ten pages of Croquis in a speech that was set at 2 minutes speaking time. As soon as we received the Croquis, I mentioned that it is impossible to check in 10 pages of Croquis within 2 minutes so that the voting process can be carried out regularly. I have noted it at the top of the Bureau and said that this is not possible. So far, and this is what the Rules of Procedure have provided for, you as President have to ensure that the vote can take place in such a way as to allow for these pre-examinations of the Croquis. It has been so, I believe, for 16 years now here in the house, that every time we have said to the Bureau that it is not possible to review this at this time, it has come to a delay in the vote. I'll hold on to this. Despite a clear remark, this has not happened. We have now carried out a vote here, and I am convinced that most of the Members did not have the opportunity to review this 10-page Croquis with amendments in preparation within 2 minutes. I do not think such a state is worthy of the Austrian Parliament and democracy and try to ensure in the future that when such Croquis is distributed to a TOP at the last speech and there is a note from political groups that we need more time to live up to it as in the past. The sitting should then either be suspended, which is the rule of procedure, or put the vote after the next item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26206	I now have a speech on the business treatment of Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26241	Madam President. I would also like to address the debate, because first of all the Croquis is distributed to the folders and not to the Members, therefore: To say that the Members could not have looked through it, that alone does not entirely correspond to the process. [[Abg. Kogler: Even worse!]] Secondly, it has been quite possible for our folderist to work through this, and also for us MEPs. I do not want a Member here in the Rules of Procedure to say that Members do not know what they are voting on. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I strongly reject that. It was always clear to us at every moment. [[Abg. Brosz: This is really a joke!]] And I would also ask you, if you already talk about the dignity of the house, whether you are headphones or not to read the paper during the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26295	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26319	Madam President. High house! I feel like a folder now, too. I would like to support and sign a hundred percent of what Mr Brosz has said – a rare one. Dear Mr. Klubobmann Schieder, you can put this into a bit of a joke now, the fact is that this is a way of dealing with the government. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I did not see it as ridiculous! I was serious!]] It would be more honest if you made a Council of Ministers, then we would save ourselves the whole Parliament, because it is actually impossible to prepare for it. We decide here federal laws. They are talking about a new culture of co-operation in parliamentarianism. – This has now been a model example, an example of how valuable Parliamentaryism is to you, namely your replica on what Mr Brosz has just said. [[Abg. Schieder: But more valuable than your clubman! I'm here, not your clubman!]] Let's say it again. From our point of view, this is also a disregard for parliamentarianism. [[Abg. You have no idea!]] And if you want to make Council of Ministers decisions, you do that, but then we can save ourselves all that. We decide here federal laws with implications – Mr Kogler said it was €150 million – and you expect us to judge the matter in half a minute. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26382	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26406	Madam President. Apart from the fact that I would like to stress Mr Kassager's and Mr Brosz's contributions to a hundred percent, because it was de facto impossible to read through this in a short time, of course, the argument of Klubobmann Schieder is not understandable and not correct insofar as it is far easier for a government party to organise an appropriate vote because everything that comes from the opposition, as we know, is fundamentally rejected in this House. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: (in the direction of Bureau) What is the problem? Why can't you just interrupt that?]] In this respect, it is very easy for a government party to read and work through such comprehensive Croquis in a short time, so that you know how to vote. It is de facto impossible for an opposition party to do so in such a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26459	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26484	I should like to say to our group that we consider the President's procedure to be absolutely correct. But we are willing to discuss this in the presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26508	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26532	What I don't quite understand is why you're so opposed to allowing more time. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: A few minutes!]] It would have been quite easy to postpone the voting process once again, then we could have prepared in peace. Unfortunately, we have now found a situation in which we also had to refuse because we were not sure what was actually there. And that's just a shame. I don't know why you're so opposed to saying that here, okay, that was a mistake and next time you just give more time, because that's what we want, that is, a certain time to be able to judge it accordingly. [[Abg. Fekter: It wasn't a mistake!]] I think that's the most normal thing in the world. I'd ask you to do something different next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26582	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There is now no more word for business treatment. The voting process was in progress at the time when the objection was raised. [[Abg. Brosz: No! I was up! I was up there with you!]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: If a group says it has a problem, then it has to deal with it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! First: Most of these votes have been postponed because this objection is correct because it is a correct conclusion that the Croquis should be distributed to the political groups in good time. [[Abg. Brosz: But... happened!]] I also assured the relevant staff after this objection had been raised here at the Bureau, and I was informed that the Croquis were distributed to all political groups in good time. [[Abg. Brosz: What is “righteous ”?]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: “Right time” is half a minute?]] [[Abg. Brosz: I went up with the Croquis right away!]] It is of course for me, however, that I will put this on the agenda of the next presidential conference and we will discuss this process in the presidential conference. Mr Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You have 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26682	Madam President. Minister! High house! Since tension and concentration are currently at a height due to a Rules of Procedure debate, I cordially invite you to carry out a small thought sports task with me at this late hour and at the beginning of the second half of the EURO game. Ladies and gentlemen, it is about concluding an agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG, which amends the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries on civil legislation on the transport of building property. This provision must be amended for several reasons. Firstly, the title of this agreement is not true, ladies and gentlemen, because since this agreement existed since the mid-1990s, it has also been applied to agricultural land, so that the title has already been changed. What's this about? – On the one hand, we have a federal responsibility for justice, thus for jurisdiction, and thus for the fundamental books and fundamental books. judge. On the other hand, the countries, the federal states are responsible for the basic traffic, so we have nine different basic traffic laws in our country. In order to achieve harmonisation, the Federal Government and the countries have concluded an agreement more than 20 years ago in accordance with Article 15a B-VG. A special feature has now been added, in addition to the two levels I have already mentioned, to the European level. ==References== August 2015 is the European Heritage Law Regulation which presents challenges to us, in order to say it in new German. This challenge is that courts and authorities in EU countries, outside Austria, can also arrange the successions, i.e. who inherits a property in Austria. You know that we have very strict basebook rules, that you have to make very precise applications, and if you don't really do that exactly, you won't be registered as the owner. That is why it is already a challenge if someone comes with a foreign document, perhaps in another language, to know exactly how to enter it. There's already a translation problem: What is a deposit, what is the catastrophic community, what is the main book court? - It's got to be all in there. There are many countries in which perhaps only one document is issued, in which the inheritance is called, so that this agreement would not be bookable to and for itself. If the booking does not take place, it can be auctioned in extreme cases. Now this agreement provides for a curator to be ordered by a lawyer or a notary who then takes care of this registration. In practice, this is certainly a good way to ensure that the corresponding documents are issued and the booking is carried out. Whether it really is going to be cheaper – as the legislator intended it – if you do it in this way, I don't know. It is almost recommended that an EU foreigner who owns Austrian property before he dies should take his usual residence in Austria in order to complete the leave process in Austria. In any event, this agreement is a first step, because the basic traffic laws need to be adapted afterwards so that we come to a practical solution here, and I therefore ask you to agree to this agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26734	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26755	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I say something about the Article 15a agreement on the transport of building plots, I would like to make a further consideration of developments in the real estate sector as a whole, which has recently developed very dynamically. A look at the real estate monitor of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank also shows that last year the price trend has attracted very, very much, so it has accelerated very significantly. We had an average of 5.1 percent in 2015. The causes are a strong increase in demand by the growing population, on the one hand by the low interest rate policy of the European Central Bank, resulting in a lot of cheap money flowing into land and land. If we look at those who acquire property on land and land, that's not what we could assume, mostly farmers, but very often powerful circles, especially from academically educated civil professions. This is, in general, an unpleasant development, because due to This economic development, which is not always built to put money into real estates. It is therefore all the more important that the federal government, through initiatives such as WIEBE, ensure that existing areas are available for the creation of housing. It is also important that the handling of properties is handled in a transparent and efficient manner. This can also be seen in the European context. In this sense, the present decision is also a substantial improvement, namely the Article 15a agreement. The revision of these civil law provisions relating to the transport of building materials has been a key factor in an EU decision; Mr Vetter has already explained this in detail. It may be because, in the event of death, the owner of an Austrian property is not granted the succession of a different court, it is agreed to it because it is not responsible in Austria, because it is also defined differently by the rightholders elsewhere. Therefore, it is also necessary to adapt the law on inheritance law, an agreement must be reached with the federal government and the countries. Since foreign inheritance provisions should now also be possible, the circle of potential heirs has also been extended in the law. It shall also ensure that, after a reasonable period of time, registration in the basic book is carried out reliably. In total, this is a significant improvement. I would ask you to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26797	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stefan speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26819	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have not fully understood what the essential improvement is. We have, I think, tried here to intercept something that is very unpleasant; in so far as it may be an improvement that there is this law, but I would like to explain briefly. The EU inheritance law regulation is the background to this provision, and the EU inheritance law regulation provides that a estate regime abroad must also be valid domestically. That is to say, in Romania, for example, a leave is carried out, but the people own property in Austria, and the court – or whatever authority that is in Romania – issue a certificate of succession, and that is automatically true in Austria. That sounds very tempting, but it is a huge problem and a typical example of misconception at European level. In reality, this leads to a levelling, to a deterioration, in particular, to a deterioration in Austria, because in Austria there is the basic book, which can be relied on a hundred percent, because it is examined because each entry in the base book is preceded by a very complex procedure, the ground book court examines it precisely and one can therefore rely on who is the owner. On the other hand, we have a leave process in Austria, where it is carefully examined who is an inheritance, and then the right of ownership is granted to the heirs. Now this is going to be broken because, for example, a Romanian – that is only as an example – or another court in another Member State determines who is the inheritance. We don't know how that happens there; in other words, we know it in part. It is true that this is happening in a completely different way. There comes someone with the death certificate, says I am the son, and then he gets a confirmation that he is the heir; whether there are three other children or anything else, may not be tested. That's right there, that's their philosophy of doing it that way – you can do it, every legal order is a bit different – but the result is that he receives a certificate of succession, and with this certificate he can then go to the Austrian ground-book court and say he wants to be registered there. That breaks our system. This is a deterioration because it's a levelling. That is to say, what has been regulated by us so far and what we have been able to rely on is broken down because other systems are being used. And that's this wrong way of thinking that you have to unify everything on devils, which actually leads to a deterioration in the result. That is why Mrs Becher is right: This law is now intended to serve as the worst thing to do, that one now employs someone in the country, who then so practically translates it and at least tries to put it into a form to make it enforceable. However, the substantive, the material problem remains: that may not have been tested who really is the owner or who really is the inheritance. In other words, I may have a dispute afterwards, which leads to the fact that what we have in the basic book is not right and then has to be changed again. So: With this EU inheritance law regulation and with this European certificate of succession, we have produced something really bad at European level, from an Austrian point of view. We are now doing the best we can, therefore we will also agree to this law; but we must already point out that this is a very bad example of how, unfortunately, under the pretext of harmonisation, a levelling is used. That was not thought-out, and the Austrian system is going to be a little underrun and the situation in Austria is at least worse. But, as I said, Because we are now trying with the law to make the most of it, we have also said that we agree. It is only necessary to point out what was actually done with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26870	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26891	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are used to globalisation in the field of trade, the economy, communication. It is also increasingly happening in the sense of hereditary consequences by getting married across borders and then being inherited across EU borders. To that end, the EU is addressing the situation of this inheritance law regulation, which it has not, logically, yet existed before the creation of the EU. The rules on the inheritance of land located elsewhere in the EU are now to be clarified more clearly. I would like to refer to the Article 15a agreement, because everything else has already been explained very detailedly. I would just like to mention the small detail that the national legislation in its civil law action can be quite less stringent with regard to the basic traffic restriction, but must not be more stringent than the Article 15a agreement provides. For example, he can be a firm person. that life-mates are also qualified as close relatives and can then be exempted from ground-traffic approval obligations. Despite all this, what the EU is planning is a contribution to legal certainty for EU citizens in general. At least those, probably a small proportion of EU citizens who have land to inherit – that will not be the majority – certainly meet this legal certainty. I would be pleased if the EU were to be so sensitive to other things and, for example, with regard to the question of CETA, TTIP and other current issues that we are currently discussing would also respect the needs of people. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26928	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26949	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have also looked very closely at this point, because it is very interesting. This is an Article 15a agreement, which we have already heard, between the Federal Government and countries on civil law provisions relating to the transport of land. In concrete terms, it is intended to clarify the procedures to be applied by countries, namely: basic transport procedures, within the meaning of the EU Regulation. As noted in the explanatory notes, there was a need for action in this matter – and it is within it – since the new Community legislation could take place in the case – we have already heard that “a foreign court could decide on the legal consequence of death after the owner of an Austrian property” or “success (...) without judicial proceedings”. I think we all do not want to, but, ladies and gentlemen, I have also listened very closely to Mr Stefan, and have read it through to me and have also discussed myself with a colleague of yours; he has told me: Whether this makes clear is in the stars. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e26973	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to give approval to the conclusion of the present agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act in 1149 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:25:44]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 1735/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Criminal Procedure Order 1975, last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 26/2016, amended (1226, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27029	In this way we reach the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Brückl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27058	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear Members of this House! The request for a federal law to amend the criminal order refers to the Account Register and Account Statement Act. I can explain this briefly. In April of this year, it was decided in this House that, in future, the public prosecutor's office may consult the account register without judicial authorisation, so to speak, in relation to the inventory of all accounts of a suspect. This account register will take up operation from August onwards. At the same time, however, credit institutions have been able to provide the necessary data – this database is of course to be filled – for a period of up to 30 years. ==References== So this is about adapting these dates, because a request before October would of course not make any sense. We liberals have not agreed to this request that the public prosecutor can take an insight into the account register without judicial approval, even in April, because we have massive concerns because it constitutes a serious intervention into privacy, a serious intervention into fundamental rights, if such a thing can already happen due to a suspect status; therefore we have already rejected it in April. It is now only a logical consequence of us that we also reject this adaptation, which does not correspond to the classification, here, as well as the consultation of the prosecutor in this account register without judicial approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27088	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have here a self-employed request from Mr Steinacker and Mr Jarolim, in which an adjustment is made: The turn “1. ==References====External links== In October 2016, the following sentence shall be added: “For information on one before the 1st century. The current business relationship with a credit or financial institution continues to apply §§ 109 Z 3 lit. A and 116 in the until the end of the 30th century. The text of the Agreement shall be replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. Why are we doing that? . We have here adopted the Account Register and Account Survey Act, and at the same time a regulation has been adopted giving credit institutions time to complete the account register by the end of September. That's why it's only got one. October a sense of consulting the data. In good cooperation between financial and judicial bodies, this request has been agreed accordingly. At the same time, however, it is important to ensure that the old data that are not fed into this account register can also be retrieved. This is also ensured by the addition. This legislative project, this small amendment to the criminal code, is a consistent implementation of our previous legislation with broad consent, and I therefore ask for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27149	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27170	Madam President. Federal Minister! We have here a non-formal but contentious request for a criminal procedure. The criminal code has also included some other aspects, and I can only say that we still have some work here in the autumn. We know that we have fallen a little backward in the OECD ranking, and that is why the current measure with the account register is certainly one of the most important answers. A further answer is certainly also the leniency regulation. I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for this international review, this legal comparison with those countries in which these measures are implemented very efficiently. We all know that for very complicated structures it is a huge advantage to have a good solution to have a good chandelier regulation that creates more legal certainty than now. I therefore welcome the unsurpassed calls from the Ministry of Justice regarding a quality improvement for the autumn and look forward to it with interest. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27201	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27222	Minister! We have already discussed this in committee, the proposal is relatively narrow and has only a formal content. More exciting is what we are not discussing today, but should have been discussing – Mr Jarolim has already said it – the decency regime that you – and I think it is now quite positive – have only postponed until autumn, as it looks. In short, I was concerned that you would let go of all serious legislation, an important instrument in the fight against corruption and to facilitate the work of the prosecutor. However, the signals that are coming now are going in a different direction, namely that the proficiency regulation is to be extended and that there is a debate about how the proficiency regulation can perhaps be attracted, so that in some cases it can be applied more than before. In fact, it is undisputed that the prosecution regime makes life easier and, in many cases, in which the public prosecutor is not moving forward, may lead to the possibility of resolving corruption cases. I see two points that I am allowed to give you about the summer – perhaps you see similar points – where we could strengthen the procedure: The first point is the legal status of the chandelier. This requires a very early legal commitment to ensure that the status is clear, as well as legal protection of the status. In other words, only if essential conditions have not been met can the decommissioning status be eliminated, only if it loses its status will it be necessary to carry out a review for the decommissioning agents in order to maintain legal certainty. The second point, which may be difficult for deputies to become deputies, is the question of civil rights claims. If I “save” the criminal legal side – under quotation marks – as a witness, because I participate in the Enlightenment. effective, remains the civil rights side of claims for damages, and this is often at least as oppressive as the criminal side. There, too, one should consider whether one is privileged to the deputies, but not at the expense of the victims and the victims concerned, but possibly those who are then degenerated as perpetrators in the course of the criminal proceedings. The idea is that, for example, the detonator assumes only one false liability. We'll discuss this. At any rate, I am glad that you will be presenting a leniency arrangement in autumn and that we will develop this important instrument and not let it fall asleep. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27267	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27289	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now speaking on the subject of accounts registers. Tax relief, money laundering and other dubious practices of money veiling cost us an incredible estimated €1,000 billion annually in Europe. It is equally incredible to think that this is €2,000 per capita in Europe – money that is missing from the European states for valuable investments. A complete and efficient account register is therefore essential, which will lead to simplified account information and information on business links from 1. ==References====External links== However, the application of the Account Registry and Account Statement Act is postponed from 1. ==References== ==References== Although the account register is in operation from August onwards, credit institutions still need time to prepare the necessary data. Credit institutions shall only have the initial delivery by 30 % at the latest. to be transmitted on September 2016. Significant queries are only possible with the completion of the initial delivery, so the prosecutors become only from 1. October 2016 have the opportunity to take a look at the account register.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27316	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1226 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a corresponding sign. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00136_d8e27359	I announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications 1780/A(E) to 1801/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.37 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
