ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e7742	Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you a nice good morning and open the 154. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of the 150th and 151th protocols. Meeting of 9. ==References====External links== Meeting of 10. In November 2016, the management of the Parliament was unable to raise any objections. For today's session, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Lueger, Wimmer, Mag. Gisela Wurm, Amon, MBA, Dr. Nachbaur, Barbara Rosenkranzand Dr. Hable. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e7779	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is the Federal Minister for Families and Youth MMag. Dr. Sophie Karmasin. I announce that the session will be broadcast live today from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[09:07:37]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e7820	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e7939	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 should be summarized, including general debate, as well as 3 and 4 of the agenda. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e7963	A day-block speaking time of 9 “Vienna hours” was agreed between the members of the presidential conference, both for today’s day and for tomorrow, so that the following speaking times will be given for each day of the meeting: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122, FPÖ 113, Green 95 and NEOS and STRONACH each 50 minutes. For Thursday, 24. In November 2016, a day-block speaking time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as NEOS and STRONACH per 44 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club on today and tomorrow 25 minutes each and on Thursday 24 April. November 2016, each 22 minutes. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes per debate. For the purposes of the procedure agreed by common accord at the Presidential Conference, the budget deliberations on Agenda items 3 and 4 shall be broken down as follows: Today: UG 01 to 06 and 10 and 32 then: UG 13 then: UG 12 finally: UG 11. Tomorrow: UG 20 to 22 then: UG 24 then: UG 42 and 43 then: UG 25 finally: UG 30. On Thursday, 24th. November 2016: UG 31 then: UG 33 and 40 then: UG 34 and 41 then: UG 14 then: UG 15, 16, 23, 44 to 46, 51 and 58 and Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV finally: Votes on agenda items 3 and 4. This is also a written statement to the honourable Member. In any event, the intended breakdowns will be discussed at the end of the day and the meeting will be suspended thereafter. Resolutions shall be submitted in the case of the respective subdivisions. The motions for resolutions tabled on a case-by-case basis shall be put to the vote at the end of each third reading on item 3 or item on the agenda 4 in the order in which they are submitted. The term of office for members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be used, but, if the 20 minutes exceed for each member of the government responsible for the respective advisory groups, or if the 10 minutes exceed, for each State Secretary responsible for the respective advisory groups, the overdue time shall be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. The speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries shall at least be counted on the time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor at the General debate shall be the time of the debate, provided that it does not exceed the duration of 20 minutes each. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of these proposals to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:12:15]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1262, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which grants an authorisation for the sale of inmotible federal assets, amends powers available on unmovable federal assets and amends the Bundesmuseen Act 2002 and repeals the SIVBEG Constitution (Budget Accompanying Act 2017) (1328 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1292, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (1329 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8102	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate on Agenda items 1 and 2 also includes the general debate. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8132	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all received a very interesting mail from Parliament's computer department yesterday. It's got it in it. means: “A virus can be found on the USB stick [...] distributed by the Federal Ministry of Finance.” If you look closer at the budget, you almost have the impression that there is something about it, in this budget there could really be a virus in the truest sense of the word, because otherwise, a few things are not explained. One issue that I am particularly concerned with is the fight against cold progression, where we have been hearing for years and also heard in the speeches of the Minister of Finance that the cold progression must be combated. But nothing happens! It is likely that the cold progression has also fallen victim to the computer virus, otherwise I cannot explain that we do not find the fight against cold progression here in the budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The elimination of the cold progression was, as has been said, again the subject of your budget speech a month ago, it has also been announced for the time being – but so far we are experiencing that there is no draft law in question and that there is no government proposal. Of course, it would be necessary for years to eliminate cold progression and to take all measures to combat cold progression. Of course, measures are necessary: in particular, the reduction of the rate of input tax, the regular adjustment of tax rates to inflation and, at least, the recovery of additional tariff levels, so as to provide rapid relief in this area. That means, opportunities are enough, nothing is happening. This would be necessary if the citizens were to have something sustainable when it came to wage increases when it came to tax reform, which was also decided on. Any improvement that has been implemented in recent years will be destroyed by the cold progression, and of course it must be our interest to ensure the increase in purchasing power for the Austrian population. Actually, this should have been done in the context of this great tax reform, but unfortunately the registers, Mr. Finanzminister, were more important to you than to do something concrete, sustainable for the people in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With regard to single payments for pensioners: This is once again such an approach where one can see that for pensioners, unfortunately, God will not be guaranteed a sustainable increase. These are precisely those people who have worked hard for a lifetime, who in the post-war years have been concerned that our country has been rebuilt, and have finally been brought to the fore. Today, many pensioners are at the poverty line. I say that we have a special responsibility for those people who have built up our country, who have worked tirelessly, to ensure sustainable pension increases in order to ensure, of course, that pension price index adjustment is constantly ensured especially for pensioners. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Unfortunately, this is not the case. It's kind of a thing to generate, because these people are unfortunately being let down again and again. At the state budget, the government is always relying on tarns, tricks and tricks. The most obvious is that this tactic of concealment is also reflected in the enormous costs associated with the wave of migration. Although SPÖ and ÖVP are so happy to talk about transparency and cost-truth in many areas, we miss this transparency where it is about the cost-truth of migration policy. Around €2 billion, Mr. Finanz- Minister, in the 2017 budget on costs for refugees, asylum and integration. But this is probably only half the truth, because much of the cost will still be hidden somewhere in other resorts. Of course, the minimum guarantee, which is now not related to the Federal budget, is also an additional cost factor. We will look very closely at the costs in this area and in which sub-budgets are hidden, as has been said, some expenditure. Of course, this is always a debate we are experiencing, where we almost feel it is not just the impression that the Federal Government is constantly trying to present that this wave of migration brings something to the Austrian population and the country. This is a certain ideological thrust that can be heard from the Austrian government over and over again that there are great positive effects to be expected. And with regard to the negative effects of mass immigration, the government is very likely to pursue a targeted disinformation policy again and again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The record unemployment, which is already a sad issue today – we have as many unemployed as never before in the Second Republic – will, of course, continue to increase in the coming year, namely a turboshock, when refugees who are now asylum seekers end up falling out of basic care, because they become asylum-seekers or eligible for subsidiary protection and then land cords in the AMS or in the minimum security; then this issue will also be on the rise. I therefore say quite clearly: Austria is neither the labour market service nor the Social Office for Migrants from all over the world. We have long since reached or exceeded a financial, social, security and social burden limit. Of course, this is also consistently opposed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore also miss the consistent approach of the government, which the Minister of Defence has also said critically, namely that, when it comes to the fact that many people have come to us, who are in fact illegal here, who are not refugees within the meaning of the Geneva Convention, who have come here for economic reasons, they also consistently send back home those who have come to us unlawfully, therefore also have no right to asylum, and also ensure a return to their homes. No, no, no, This is largely not happening. This is, of course, also a failure of this government, but above all also of the Foreign Minister to a certain extent, because he has apparently not negotiated readmission agreements with various countries to date. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore experience time and again that when people are to go home again, the homelands often refuse to do so. There's a need for action, and you can't talk out of responsibility either. Of course, there is also a real crash, with which one can really measure and make visible the real costs, including the real costs of international migration, which are naturally given in all the resorts and are certainly still hidden there or there, but we will certainly be able to light that up even more. All in all, this budget is not a big throw. It once again shows that this government has positioned itself excellently as an administrative government, not as a reform government, and obviously this is not necessarily the new style or the New Deal announced by Mr. Chancellor Kern. You can't do that otherwise. to be assessed. Unfortunately, in many areas it is not what we have expected, but it is no wonder either: I didn't expect much. I have, of course, expected from the very beginning that this will be a further purely administrative development. The fact that the government is no longer coming together in many areas, that there is a standstill in many areas and that in many areas there is only one more dispute and nothing else, that is an open secret. So it will be really exciting how long this government can survive at all, because in the development of how we experience it today, in reality, only a quick re-election of the only right and consistent step is in fact.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8260	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators are next to the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8281	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming back to the budget debate, because the central question, which is probably also the question of those people who are following the budget debate, is whether the budget of the Republic of Austria, which we are discussing here in the next few days, provides answers to the current economic and social challenges. In my view, the central objective in this context is certainly to reduce unemployment, to combat unemployment, and therefore, in its budget, the government is also relying on those factors – as it also calls the OECD – which are the sources of future growth: active labour market policy, education, research and infrastructure. These are the main challenges. Unemployment is probably the biggest challenge, and we also have structural problems. Unemployment, however, is not only a budgetary question or a statistical question, but unemployment is an individual problem, because it faces every individual affected by it, and not just economic problems. Work as an essential feature of inclusion in society means vice versa: Those who are unemployed also fear that they will be excluded from society. And only the deep belief that work gives people meaning and that people want to work is the social democratic driving force for all economic and budgetary action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Investments are an economic response to stimulate the economy in such a way that more jobs are created. Investments must increase, public investment as well as private investment. The most important investment is probably that in the formation of our young generation, in the education of young people, because it not only strengthens economic growth, but also increases the prospects for the future generations. Another point, of course, is the fiscal sustainability of the public budget. Other European countries have come into the wake of the financial crisis and international financial speculation, and even in these countries the poorest of society have paid the bill for it. That is, fiscal stability, a reasonable budget, which is seen by growth to be balanced, is ultimately also a policy that frees the poorest from the burden, because it always pays the poorest. Therefore, we are also in favour of a sustainable fiscal policy that considers the deficit and the debt ratio to be low over growth. This is certainly very important. They also see in this budget the state revenue and public expenditure ratio, i.e. the ratio of how much the state spends and how much gross domestic product is growing, that, contrary to recent years, gross domestic product, that is, our economy, is growing more than the expenditure of the State. This is economical activity, but it is only when one is investing in the right sectors at the same time, in those where growth, tax revenue and jobs of the future are created. If you look at the budget in detail, you can see in the fight against unemployment that we invest in training, qualification and in activation measures for the labour market. Some €1.6 billion will be spent on employment promotion, including both the promotion of occupational apprenticeships and other points, such as the financing of compulsory training up to 18 and the guarantee of training up to 25, for which substantial financial resources are also made available. We have a programme, which includes every youth up to 18 years of age having to undertake a training, but the state also commits itself and guarantees that every young person will receive up to 25 a training or a job or study place. [[Abg. Kickl: Where is that budgeted?]] – In the right sub-division. [[Abg. Kickl: Are you sure? You sure that's budgeted?]] If you look at it: Take the stick, put it in, and look into your laptop, where it stands, then you will find it too! [[Abg. Kickl: That's nowhere, Mr. Schieder! Air and trust!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The skilled workers' intensive training is also increased so that job seekers can also take a course from the age of 18, and the professional scholarship will also be reintroduced. By the way, a total of 6 500 people will benefit from this over the next three years. That is why it is important to stress that this area, namely the fight against unemployment, the opening of training opportunities, the facilitation of training and education opportunities for the young generation, is at the heart of the budget and is also a central centrepiece from a social democratic point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From an economic point of view, investment affects three factors: Firstly, they strengthen consumer demand. The tax reform of €5 billion, as confirmed by the Economic Research Institute, is responsible for the increase in domestic demand and is thus also the main support of economic growth, the delicate growth that we have in Austria. Secondly, there is a need for investment in companies or support for investment by companies. The start-up package as an example is also an essential contribution with €100 million per year to promote innovation at Austria's economic location and thus ultimately strengthen it and create employment. And thirdly, of course, it is public investment. A high public investment rate in the areas of rail, road, construction or broadband is very important, and for the first time, payments from the budget for investments together with the investments of units, ÖBB, ASFINAG and the like, the 5 billion-€ limit, if you want to do so. If you compare this with our neighbor Germany now, you will see if you calculate that the German budget invests a third less in this area than Austria. We also see that it is very important for us to invest, but to invest in the right area and invest a lot, namely in a good infrastructure that ultimately creates jobs and makes the economic environment so positive that Austria's economy can benefit optimally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have mentioned financial sustainability before, but it is always claimed by those who have not read the budget correctly, for example, that pensions would be one of those big cost drivers. If you look into the budget, you can see that the budget contribution to the pension system – that is, the money that the public budget of the pension fund has to pay – will fall by € 870 million in 2017 compared to the planning of spring, to what we discussed here in spring; € 870 million less in the pension stop by the state because the system is a balanced one. [[Abg. Loacker: Every fourth euro is spent on pensions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Everyone can read that. Take the financial framework, take the budget, compare the two numbers, and you'll see: 870 million € less! Why? – Because action has been taken, but at the same time the pension system is of course stable when employment is high and economic performance is strong. This also shows that the economy is an essential circular model. Finally, for education: This is the investment in the future of Austria. There we have 8.6 billion € in the estimate, that is a total of 300 million € more. The expansion of day-to-day schools, the expansion of new secondary schools, increasing teachers' salaries and also an increasing number of teachers, all paired with a reform of education – I just say: School autonomy, more on-the-spot decisions – a structural reform, which is also on the way, I believe, are important points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] At the very moment, it is also in this context that we are planning to devote € 750 million from the discount payment of the bank levy in the coming years to the field of education for the development of day-to-day schools. In summary – we will discuss every detail of the budget for the next few days – we have to say: In general, Austria's finances are sustainable, Austria's budget is sustainable. But much more important is: Austria is socially stable and sustainable, not only, but can also finance the necessary future investments. [[Abg. Brunner: But you already know the definition of “sustainable”?]] This is budgetary policy with social democratic handwriting!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8409	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8430	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, in two, three key points, I have to contradict my previous speaker. In particular, when it comes to the issue of future investment, including social security, it is unfortunate that this draft budget, which will be available to the House on Thursday, will have to be put to the vote: Key decisions in the right direction, changes in future investment, whether this is education or climate protection, will not be made, and that is unfortunate. The most dominant in this budget, as already in May, is an oversized security and defence budget. The main emphasis has been placed there, but this is certainly not the case in the field of future investment. I'm going to explain this in detail; basically, that's a shame. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is the first budget presented under the new Chancellorship of Christian Kerns. There were many announcements that have been made and that have sounded very interesting, such as the New Deal, based on Franklin Roosevelt's program in the 1930s: Economic recovery, investment climate, jobs, economic willingness, social security, minimum wages, social standards. That was a very large comparison. However, in this budget none of the measures that have been publicly announced is found to be a single figure, which in fact also lies down. Unfortunately, the whole of the New Deal is not included in this draft budget, and I do not understand why, although one has declared itself publicly in this respect, has aroused hopes and expectations, but then all that could actually improve in the labour market and in investment, is moving further. The same applies to education reform: We have just heard that everything is on track, but de facto we have just closed the structural gap, the structural deficit in education, which we have always mentioned, with the indication that there will be. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Well, not even that!]] Of actual structural reforms and the fact that the money arrives in the classroom, we are really still months away. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The budget will by no means meet the key challenges for 2017. I refer to the presentation of the budget a few weeks ago, in which very critical words were found on the government's side of the chancellor and also of the vice chancellor's own work. They said here: The duty has just been made, we are far away from the course. – Mr Vice-Chancellor opposed, he said: Not even the duty was made. I don't have to do so much to sign out what's missing again. Two points are very important to me and to us: One is social security in Austria, and we are faced with the phenomenon that the scarcity between the poor and the rich is in fact increasingly apart and that, above all, the structural measures, for example, a tax-structural reform, have not been addressed. It is true that a few small things have been made, on small screws one has already tried to turn, but unfortunately we do not see the big deal, the big throw, both in the asset-related area as well as in the energy taxes and in the labour costs, as is now recommended by all economists, and we do not see any effort in this direction either. However, this will be a key to a step forward both in social security and in environmental and climate protection. This is not only something that greens and economists are preaching, but that is now much more demanding internationally. The great climate conference in Marrakech has just taken place, and who was there, who has observed this, who in any way has really understood what is happening, must now become really uncomfortable in Austria. This opens up a huge world market. There were companies represented up to the OPEC, the energy transition is rolling in a certain direction, namely towards renewable energies, and it is no longer to be stopped. And the countries that are not in the process are really missing out on their own: on the one hand, in order to create jobs secure for their people, on the other hand, in order to provide investment for the economy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Christiane Brunner, who was there, described this: The mail really goes off, only Austria is still in the sleeping car in the other direction! – Even if you, Mr Finanzminister, claim that climate protection is no less money: It's just untrue! All the essential instruments of climate protection have been shortened in 2016 and will be shortened once again in 2017, and that is incomprehensible. Even Parliament's budget service has been very critical: "Even in a forward-looking and climate-friendly centre In spite of the need for consolidation, this reduction must be questioned.” – This has been indicated by Parliament’s budget service. We have to deal with this, we cannot simply look away here if the entire community of states is now heading in one direction. Even American states have expressed themselves differently from Trump. They say: We're with you at this energy turnaround! – And that is what we really owe our youth: future-proof jobs and the transformation of our society towards security, namely security of our livelihoods. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will also make you an offer here. It would be possible for us to change climate-damaging subsidies in these final votes, which are in the order of €4 billion. I just mention one example: Three power plants, which continue to convert coal to electricity, are subsidized with very high tax gifts, only three power plants receive €60 million. This is de facto a lost subsidy, and companies do not need it to that extent, which is just a sugar product to continue operating these plants. On the one hand, we urgently need this money for climate financing – thermal renovation, renovation of residential homes, reduction of heating costs, thereby making housing for families more manageable – on the other hand, for climate promotion, in terms of farms. Many businesses want to change. Domestic climate support has been cut short, has been drastically reduced, and all these measures, of course, also lead to a massive uncertainty of the Austrian economy. I think that it would be in the next two or three days to change at least a little over the next few days with motions for resolutions or with concrete amendments to this budget towards the future. This is also my appeal to all the environmental and climate protection interested Members of this House. All of them have ratified Paris, except for the Freedom Party, which has not done so, and we have entered into a great commitment, which we must also meet in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8494	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8515	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Good thing Clubobfrau Glawischnig realized that we are focusing on safety. Especially at that time, Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Gerhard Schmid.]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: In education too!]] I hope that the people will also realize that we are putting this focus very consciously there – for who would have thought that under these framework conditions we are leading this general debate to our budget today? The European Union has changed dramatically last year. The European Union has been weakened last year. The most sustainable thing for me is the decision made by the UK in June. Brexit is weakening the European Union. Unfortunately, the efforts of the strong German Chancellor Angela Merkel to solve the refugee issue across Europe have remained an effort and has not resulted. Now to the U.S. elections: So those who have been worried about TTIP can now calm down, because today, in the early days, the President of the United States, Trump, has said quite clearly via Twitter: Twitter is over, and he doesn't keep much from free trade anyway. [[Abg. Street, "Twitter is over"?- Oh, my God!]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] – Twitter is not over, TTIP is over! – TPP, says Mr Vice-Chancellor, is over, this transatlantic agreement is history, but the question is whether this is good for the European Union, because nationalism is increasing everywhere: [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: TPP!]] [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Krainer: No, trans-Pacific!]] [[Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner: Trans-Pacific!]] [[Abg. Krainer: This is like Neusiedler See and Lake Constance!]] Russia has resigned from international criminal jurisdiction; China has always pursued a nationalist policy. And if you look at the development of a candidate – still Turkey's candidate for accession – and see what is happening there in a social-political way, what happens there under the rule of law, you have to say: If one had not put any emphasis on security in these conditions, then this Federal Government would have made a serious mistake, Mr Glavischnig! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget, which we are voting on here, naturally takes into account the effects that exist, because if bombs fall in Aleppo, Raqqa, Mossul or Kabul, then we feel that. [[Abg. Lugar: In the budget?]] Last year, 2015, we felt it massively, with this wave of refugees, which Austria has fully reached. That requires us to take appropriate measures, and this 2017 budget is this red-and-white safety belt that we need at this stage. This red-white-red safety belt is the 2017 budget, because we are actually spending much more money on security in the country. In addition to what we use in terms of resources – and these are considerable means: More € 440 million for the police, for the interior, € 246 million more in the field of the Ministry of Defence and also more resources for integration; it is important that there be close cooperation between the interior, the outside and the defence sector – we also need the legal framework, the ceiling on refugees; this is a very important point, and we already have a result. We also need a result in terms of minimum security. This cost explosion must be controlled by us. We need the differentiation between those who live here in the country and those who come to us. [[Abg. Kickl: Bravo!]] This differentiation is justified, ladies and gentlemen, we must implement it! [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Lugar.]] We must not wait until one federal country after another – Lower Austria has shown how it goes – here comes to an implementation, and we also need to spend more resources on integration. [[Abg. Kickl: Long has it...!]] [[Abg. Loacker:... heads of state!]] In the 2017 budget, the amount increases from € 54 million to € 92 million, because without German knowledge there is no integration! We must do everything we can to ensure that the people who come to us make the way into working life. Those who do not manage to get into work must also be willing to do non-profit work. If we are willing to make social benefits available to them, they must be ready if they do not allow the entry into the labour market to make their contribution to Austria through charitable work, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are trying to achieve this – and we will do it, it will not be just an attempt – that Austria remains one of the safest countries in the world, and that is why it is right to set this focus. But the crucial point is, of course, our economy. Without economic growth, we will not achieve the budget targets. We have used 1.6 percent economic growth here in the budget. If economic growth is down by only 0.5 percent, we already lack more than € 1 billion in the budget. In order to boost economic growth, Vice-chanc and Minister of Economic Affairs Reinhold Mitterlehner has set out some very concrete initiatives that are shown in this budget. We do something for small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, this increase in the investment premium, which is planned at €175 million for the next two years, is intended to create 25 000 jobs and create an investment volume of more than €1 billion. [[Abg. Oils:... Unfortunately!]] [[Abg. Oils:... cuckoo!]] That's very important! It is also important to note the € 175 million provided for in the financial compensation for the municipalities, because the public sector also has a role to play when it comes to investment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] That is a very important point! The new sector, namely the start-ups, which have already been dealt with here by us, is at least €62 million in the budget; we want to invest €18 million in this area. The basis is an economy that thrives, and hopefully an unemployment that goes back, because we also need to see: We need 500 million € – 500 million € in this next budget! – for the labour market sector. We already place € 8.6 billion there – € 8.6 billion! – a huge sum available! [[Abg. Rossmann: Will you let the unemployed starve?- Oh, my God!]] Unfortunately, this is the difference with Germany, where unemployment is going back and where Finance Minister Schäuble has already managed to get out without re-indebtedness. The Minister of Finance is working hard on this goal. He can only achieve it if he has the support of the entire Federal Government and also our support here in the house if he sticks to this objective. We must stick to this objective of achieving a budget without re-indebtedness. We've got to do this! However, we can only succeed if we are willing to make reforms in cost drivers. I don't know if it's so positive if we first adopt a budget this year, in which we have more than €5 billion for the ÖBBB – more than €5 000 million! – need only for this area! [[Abg. Brosz: You didn't notice climate protection?- Oh, my God!]] That is a proud sum, ladies and gentlemen, and there are enough reforms if I think only of special pension rights and other areas. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Moser and Mr Wenninger]] We need reform throughout the House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our objective must be that Austria should remain at the top of the EU countries and not fall back. We must remain at the forefront when it comes to our social state when it comes to our health system when it comes to the labour market. [[Abg. Strache:... Special pension rights of the Austrian National Bank theme!]] We can only stay at the top if we also make reforms. We as the Austrian People's Party are ready to do so. We invite all political groups, in particular our government partners, to support them.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8830	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e8886	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! - Not so impatient, H.-C. Street! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Dear Citizens! Dear taxpayers who watch! This budget debate is to illustrate again at a glance where Austria is going next year. I would like to explain why I am convinced that this budget, Mr Finanzminister, is not good for Austria. It is not good for the population of this country. It won't be good for people! In particular, this has to do with the fact that we are extremely constant, Mr Financier, and we are making a terrible debt without any sense of home, and you have been making debts for 55 years. [[Call the ÖVP: There he was eight years old!]] The next year is 55. Year in a row in which this government – basically always the same power cartel of red and black – makes debts. For 30 years the ÖVP was sitting at the driver's seat! The ÖVP always says: Soon, at the next budget, we will be free of debt! Reinhold Lopatka, your zero deficit is always three years away – this is the problem! – just as the tax reduction is always three years away. The point to be made to the population is, Minister of Finance, that revenue is slumping like Arab oil sources. We have the highest revenue in the history of this Republic, but at the same time we still have the fact that we make new debts every year. Of course, something doesn't fit in. According to Schelling, we have €77.5 billion in expenditure next year, we have revenue of €73.2 billion; that is, another hole of €4.3 billion goes up. [[The speaker pours water into his glass.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Cheers!]] The question is: You think that's okay? – In Austria, about 34,000 children are born every year. We can be happy about this, it may also be more. That's 200 kids a day. If you calculate this – and we have it on the chest today – there are 34,000 € of debt that you can put on your way for each child – 34,000 €! [[on his T-shirt – also other representatives of NEOS wear such an item – showing: “34,000 € debt per head”]] [[Call at the ÖVP:... 80 000 €!]] That means you're coming to the world and you've already got that debt backpack. The following is also clear: You will only reduce the debt if you make reforms. [[Abg. Vetter: We are in favour of the reforms!]] Hans Jörg Schelling says that “every day without reform is a lost day.” And we say: Our country is making reforms, not debts! The ÖVP always says it is for reforms – even the SPÖ – but they do not come. Let's explain some things: We have seen a reformer of announcements. What's left of the rest? – In the field of education, the educational reform, which took place on 17 November, was introduced. ==References====External links== One sixth is through, five sixths are left. We will also start in 2017 with an undercover, with a hole in the educational budget of € 191 billion. We will, Mr Finanzminister, with the help of SPÖ and ÖVP next year – probably in January – exceed the sound limit of half a million unemployed in Austria. For the first time in the history of this country, 500 000 people will be without work. And this budget will continue to fuel unemployment. Why? – Because it prolongs an immensely high tax burden. I say it again: They are making new debts, but at the same time they are driving the second highest tax burden in the European Union. In front of us is only Belgium. That means: We burden people as much as hardly any other country in this world. 26 EU countries leave people more money in the wallet. They lead to the fact that a young couple, be it a nurse and a carpenter, whether it be a teacher or a taxi driver, can no longer realize the dream of a home. This is not going to happen anymore, because they can no longer put the necessary money on the side, because at the end of the month you grab them in the pockets, as if there were no morning. That's why there's only one morning for these people; that's what makes people wild, and you're wondering why people are eaten. For example, we said – and we said that yesterday at 12 noon: We want to turn the GIS off, because how can it be that a public-owned company receives €600 million in forced fees and then, when a budget hole goes up, says: [[Abg. Kickl: That's why the hazelsteiner supported Wrabetz!]] Then we press the button and get automatically € 40 million more!Unknown term type: "%s".? In nocturnal negotiations, the ÖVP said about the financial director in the ORF: If you give us the financial director, we are willing to burden people with €40 million more! – So you wanted people to pay for your mail chess. [[Abg. Kickl: Say the one who told the hazelsteiner...!]] [[Abg. Strache: What about the hazelsteiner?- Oh, my God!]] That's what you're doing, and of that people have completely removed their noses! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is why more than 20,000 people will have signed this petition in the first 24 hours. That's what burns people under the nails, because they don't understand how they get sucked off by you anymore. [[Abg. Kickl:... those who make... the wall!]] Let us continue to look at the reform zeal: Abolishing cold progression, that is, constantly increasing tax pressure! – The cold progression is announced, but will not come. Let us look at the debate on financial compensation! – You have extended the last financial compensation for years because you said you still have to negotiate so that there is something going on, something sustainable. What's going on? - Nothing! State captain Markus Wallner of the ÖVP actually stands in the state day and says: Reforms have probably not succeeded, but that is not the point either. That's what a head of state of the ÖVP says. They are princes of darkness, who are only concerned that they pick up the Republic and, without public accountability, distribute the billions. That's why you're doing it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This government was unable to enforce the completion of the transparency database. This is the law, but the state princes do not adhere to it; and the SPÖ and the ÖVP find this to be okay. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: So now it has been a little too much!]] At the red tape reduction, Reinhold Mitterlehner, nothing comes across the ramp. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Yes!]] In the case of a reduction in the cost of wages, nothing comes across the rampage. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Stand in there!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The pension reform has been announced several times, nothing is going on. It's the same when it comes to financial compensation. Everything that kind of substance would move you back into the future. Benchmarking, therefore, is said to be looking at the efficiency comparison between the federal states, has been postponed and should be negotiated first. The state reform is to be negotiated in 2018. They push everything into the future, and if you still land a random hit, for example, the education fund that you donate at €50 million – by the way, money from banks – then immediately the social partners come and say: We need to go in there and we also need a mandate to determine how the money is distributed! Then the old power cartel sits back together and distributes the money we don't have. So under the rule – Mr Vice-Chancellor – I have the message on my back for you: [[on the lettering on his T-shirt: “My country is making reforms instead of debt!”]] Our country is making reforms, not debts! – We are convinced of that. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Very good!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] That is, I believe, an important message that everyone should understand with a sense of the house, and we will not descend from it. [[Abg. Kickl: Hopefully no Middle East leg!]] We want a single-fit Austria, and you are the wrong managing director for this country. That's why this has to end pretty quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9146	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. I'll set you 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9196	Madam President. I think we can come back to the subject. It is not our problem in Austria whether we have too many or too few T-shirt models. The biggest challenge for policy is unemployment. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Who is responsible for this?- Oh, my God!]] This essentially has three causes – or actually it has a big cause, consisting of three smaller ones. While we are creating more jobs from year to year, that is, more people have employment, more than last year, more than last year, that is, employment is increasing – as we are among the few countries in the European Union where employment is increasing – but unemployment is rising. Then why does unemployment rise? – It increases because more and more people are on the labour market. There are three large groups that are now more on the labour market. First of all, they are women – more women want to work, more women are on the labour market. That's good. This means, however, that too few jobs are created for these women who are pushing on the labour market. [[Abg. Street:... no full-time jobs!]] The second group is the older ones, who are just longer in employment. It has really succeeded in increasing the actual retirement age, i.e. people are going to retire later today, they are longer on the labour market. The third large group is due to the fact that the Austrian labour market works so well that we have jobs, well paid jobs, especially in relation to our neighbouring countries, and that many people from other European Union countries come to Austria to work here. First of all, the Germans, Hungary, Slovakia, of course, are the neighbouring states. These are the three groups that are pushing on the labour market, and therefore unemployment is increasing. How do we get into the situation that we not only create more jobs, but that we create more jobs than people come to the labour market, say that unemployment is falling? – This requires a number of measures. One of the measures has been put in place, it already works and we feel it too, that is the big tax reform. This is about stimulating private consumption, i.e. maintaining this cycle – Andi Schieder has said that economy is a cycle, and that is true of course – so simply to see that more net remains of gross income and is thus spent more, more on consumption, and more indirectly on demand. [[Abg. Kickl: When you abolish the ORF charges, the people stay!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Yes, it was a very, very great achievement to negotiate, implement and finance this tax reform. I remember the last budget debate, which said that the tax reform was an unfounded check, that the budget would explode, that the debt would explode. – Nothing of it has occurred. The truth is, we see today, the re-indebtedness is less than assumed a year ago. That is, the tax reform is financed, and the whole system works very well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So, first of all, to stimulate private consumption through the tax reform. The second is public investment. We know that reasonable, decent investments are useful. And where is investment? Andi Schieder has already said that we invest 50 percent more than the Germans. We also invest by 20.25 percent more than we ourselves invested last year, in classical areas: Road, rail, construction, but of course also research and development and education. It is also clear from the budget that the investment rate, public investment, is increasing. This is an investment budget, not a savings budget, because what we need is investment. And I tell you, Mr Strolz, our children also have more of it when we invest in a good education system, in a good infrastructure than when we cut back on pensions and their grandparents. Therefore: Yes, more for public investment in this budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we still need is, of course, to stimulate private investment, because we also have a weakness in our economy, when too little investment is made by the companies. That is why the SME package, which is at the heart of it, but still needs to be implemented and from the beginning of the year, I want to say, will apply and will ensure that private investment, this third important area, is stimulated. What we need, however, is social manuscript. And social manuscript is not to know there are people in Austria who do not have income but still need 800 € to live and give them 400 €. This is not a social manuscript. This does not solve any problems either, but it only creates problems in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This creates security problems, exclusion problems, social problems. You really have to think about what you're doing here. Social manuscript already means something else, for example, that the minimum pensions for all who have worked for 30 years or more will be increased to € 1,000. That's 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110 € more, and that's not unique, but permanently fourteen times a year. This is also a social manuscript, and we are proud of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9287	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9308	Madam President. High house! So we're back here today, already the x-th time, and every time we hear from the finance ministers, including some government representatives, that debt is unsocial, debt is burdening the next generations, and debt is the most terrible thing that can be done to a country. We hear that every year, but we make new debts every year. This, of course, raises the question: Where does that come from? Why is that so? I think there are two reasons: firstly, a refusal of reform that we have been experiencing for decades, and secondly, permanently wrong decisions, which naturally lead to more and more expenditure. I would like to comment on these two points. The refusal to reform is best seen in the example of public administration. We know that we spend 50 percent more on public administration than on the EU average. We know that. We also know that the administration behaves like bamboo, which you place in your garden. Have you ever put bamboo in your garden? If you do this and do not take precautions, the bamboo takes over the entire garden after a few years. That is, you have to put the bamboo in boxes so that the roots cannot spread, because that's what the bamboo has in itself. And it's exactly the same thing in the administration: The administration has the capacity to spread, to interfere everywhere and to multiply itself. Those who don't believe it just need to look at it, that it's the same in other areas. There's a saying: A company of a certain size no longer needs customers because it has enough to do with itself. This is also true for large farms, and those who know large farms know that: The administration nourishes itself, the administration creates so much local economy that everyone is busy leaving them – and in the state area we leave them. I just mention one example: The Schönbrunn Castle is managed, is not the worst yet, but it is managed by four ministries. For example, the Federal Chancellery manages the carriage collection of Schönbrunn Castle. You have to imagine that! If you want to make a restructuring, it always means that you can't, because there are some officials losing their positions, and of course you can't. It is the same with the countries: As soon as we want to make reforms, one of the countries comes and says: That's not possible, because these are our spheres of influence, these are our people, we can provide for our old politicians, and that's why everything has to stay as it is. There is also a good example of education. In education, we know that the system, as it is currently running, is grossly bad. We spend most of the money on the education system and have terrible results: Still 20 percent of the children who come out of school cannot read and write. We still have this problem. And the Minister has said that she expects us to reduce this value to 15 percent in ten years with these great reforms. In other words, in ten years, 20 percent will not be out of school who cannot read and write, but only more than 15 percent. You have to let that break on your tongue, says a minister of education! If one wants to make reforms here, the countries are blocking because the countries with their political spheres have their hands on it and do not want to let their toys, the school, be taken away. Now there is a simple way to reform the school in the second, in the second, namely: Only those types of schools that work would have to be equipped with financial resources. Did you know that in Austria we have a school type that works, also in compulsory school? These are the non-confessional, i.e. the schools that are not run by the Roman Catholic Church or otherwise by a church that manage with the money of the parents, well manage, the teachers themselves can choose. They work in Austria. Only the problem is they're all locked up now because they're being starved. If you ask Mrs. Minister: Why Support Is it not this private sector that delivers the same performance and even better performance than the public sector? Then she says that's not my focus, my focus is on the public sector, and if those in the private sector lock up, then you can't do anything. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Partly! Some of it!]] That's exactly the problem. That is, if we were to support this area, then in the second there would be schools that function, as well as in the past. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Then a parent would no longer have to consider: Can I send my child to an ordinary school, can I afford it, or do I have to buy the Russian roulette and let my child go to a public school where you are in God's hand? I do not mean now Mr Pröll, that is another story, but the problem is, there are very, very good public schools and there are grossly bad public schools. And that's this Russian roulette. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is, I as a parent can only choose me if I live in an area where only cave-bad schools exist, either I give my child to a school and my child will probably not exploit the potential it could exploit, or I give it to a private school and save it from the mouth, because there are proper amounts to pay. That is why we support these private schools. Let's do the free private school for everyone! And then, you'll see, the public sector will also be better. That's where we could make reforms right away. Do you know why we don't? Do you know why, even though it's so simple? – Because then, of course, the country heads see competition for their public schools and lose their toys, and they do not want to. I can still remember this: My child goes to school in Lower Austria, and the class went on a ski week. The teacher asked me if the school could buy helmets for the children. I thought, yes, my child doesn't have a helmet yet, because it hasn't been a lot of skiing, okay, it's not a problem. Then my child came back after this week, and I saw the helmet. I almost fell off the chair. You know what's on it? – Head of State Erwin Pröll. My child went around a whole week with a helmet on it: Head of State Erwin Pröll! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This is the case in Lower Austria, and that is exactly the problem we are facing: There are political spheres of influence that simply do not want to be taken away from their toys. And now we are already on the second point: the wrong decisions that are being made. Have you ever asked yourself why we are making 4 billion € new debts and 2 billion of them are due to a single circumstance, namely that we are not controlled? Taking refugees into our beautiful country? 2 billion! Everything that has been budgeted here in expenditure goes to refugee care, either directly or indirectly. Whether that's a security package to clean up after so many refugees have come, or otherwise, it's all just a label flaw. In reality, it is the decision that has been made: We want these refugees here in Austria. This has not been a natural disaster, and it has nothing to do with Aleppo and what I hear from fairy tales about it, but it has to do with the fact that a decision has been taken in the European Union just three years ago, which is not accepted by all, quite a lot of people here, namely that 17 million people are to be brought to Europe. This has been said by Avramopoulos, and there is a video, and it is not disputed by anyone in the European Union. The rulings in the EU claim that we have too few children and we now have to compensate for this with refugees. And there's everyone right, no matter who's coming. Then there is a limit of 37 500. By dividing this, one comes to the point that it is precisely these 17 million when it is divided into the whole of the European Union. If you divide the 17 million into the next ten years, that's the 37 500 we've got to take. And these are the wrong decisions, because who decides whether to take them or not? Normally we as citizens, but you have made this decision for yourself, and the citizen will be charged with the costs, then taxes will be increased, all kinds of extra taxes introduced and the money redistributed. If the head of the AMS head says that more than half of these cultural districters, who come to, will remain unemployed for the next ten years, then we already see that the foundation is laid here for further costs, which will then be in the budget again and which will have to be paid again as new debts. And that's the wrong policy I'm starting here! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] One would have to ask the population: Do you even want 37,500 every year? Do you even want that every year? Because that's what it's all about. It is expected that every year we will record 37 500 – a little more, a little less – over the next ten years, until the goal you want to achieve, the 17 million, is fulfilled in Europe. The problems that arise from this, not just the financial ones, then we all have to school. That is why we should talk about it and not just about how much more money we need in the budget. And one thing at the end: If I have a house with a shallow water pipe and a water damage caused by it and I put in money every year to repaint the walls and to clean up everything, then it will not work because the water damage is still there, the pipe is still leaking and the water continues to run out. That is why every euro we invest in the budget to correct the damage of this wrong policy is misinvested. We have to close this hole first, and then we can create a balanced budget. That's reason. And I am unfortunately missing this reason from you, Minister. I miss her. What I miss especially is that you finally tell people the truth: Yes, we are obliged by the European Union to take these 37 500 each year, and that is where the railway runs. Or you say: As a people, we as Parliament have the decision to make the decision ourselves – and then we make it, too, this decision!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9383	Next, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Schelling, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9404	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to start by thanking all of you. We have been discussing the budget for a long time now, starting from the budget debate on a general debate up to the committee negotiations. I have been at many of these meetings, and I would like to thank you for the contributions that have been made, but also for the discipline that has prevailed in the committees, so that we can bring this to the plenary in good time. This thanks also apply to the budget service already mentioned today, and of course applies to all the employees of my home who have made the preparations, as well as to your employees who have prepared the necessary documents. They are quite right to create the budget for 2017 was a difficult challenge, because it was marked by special influences and we actually wanted to make this budget different. However, due to the necessary measures already cited, in the field of security, integration, and also in the field of education, the necessary investment has been made over and over again. We have implemented a tax reform that has brought us back to the growth path. We are now back in comparable growth, wherever the major European countries are. We have put in place measures that will help us sustainablely to follow the growth path. I only refer to a tax reform measure that is sustainable: This is the topic of the research premium, which, of course, burdened the budget, but which has triggered a lever on investment, which cannot be greater. The Federal Government has therefore also decided to add further offensive measures, boost investment and thus create jobs. It will be necessary to pursue this path consistently. At the same time, we have also presented a deregulation package – which, unfortunately, has been somewhat undermined by the debate on trade regulations – which will take place next year, which will develop its effectiveness for both citizens and entrepreneurs as well as for the administration. Indeed, we have achieved more growth through the tax reform; that too little is happening, has been criticized again and again. We have succeeded in providing a balanced budget for 2017 – and this is confirmed by the European Commission – a budget that has started at the same time with the necessary cost reduction measures, but also a budget that does not neglect that we do in the To make available the appropriate funds for investment, offensive measures are also available. The criticism that more needs to be made is quite legitimate in many areas. If you remember the budget speech, I was the one who has clearly declared it and called for it, and I also stick to it. If you look at other criticisms, I would like to point out that every year it was still so critical that the figures will not be kept. We reached the structural balance of 0.45 in 2014. We overcrowded 2015. In 2016, we also recorded the balance with 0.6 and 0.5 respectively. The European Commission says that the macroscenario is based on independent plausible assumptions and is in line with the EC autumn forecast. That's what I wanted to say to those who believe that something would be tricked here. In fact, it is true that we have based on the forecast data on these measures. Further efforts will need to be made for the following years, and I would draw attention to the fact that we will be presenting the new federal financial framework for decision-making to the House in the spring of next year. I assume that those things that are required and announced in connection with the reforms are pictured in this federal financial framework. This is the challenge we have to achieve with this budget, and I assume that, if there are no extraordinary events, this budget has been built on a very good foundation and will make a significant contribution for the future of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9462	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. I'll set you up for seven minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9484	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Other members of the government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that the Minister for Finance has now spoken after Mr Lugar, because Mr Lugar has already shown us in the Committee on Budgets last week that he cannot listen meaningfully. And today in his speech, one has noticed that he cannot even speak meaningfully.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9510	Mrs Tamandl! I would ask you to take this back because otherwise I will give you an order call for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9526	I take it back, but I would like to say already, Mr Lugar, the accusations and the words that you are using here in your speeches, including what was in the Committee on Budgets, I do not think that is all right. [[Abg. Lugar: What? What? What did I say? Can you remember what I said?]] You can deal with the figures and facts, but everything is always bad with you. Let me, however, deal specifically with a few things that my previous speakers have also said! [[Abg. Lugar: You can't remember what I said!]] We are in a situation where budget creation for the year 2017 is very difficult. We are in a situation where we are facing ever-increasing unemployment, and it is not easy for us to have the necessary means and scope for everything we are doing. In order to achieve this, we must make efforts in the next few years. We have already reduced re-indebtedness by one third for 2017, and we will continue to bring debt down by 2 percentage points by 2020. There is investment in the future, even if we are not so great that we can put the money out with both hands, just as the opposition would sometimes imagine it. [[Call the FPÖ:... with one hand!]] We invest in research, we invest in science, we invest in integration, in security, and, of course, there is also the need to implement various types of reforms, such as in the pension sector, in education, but also in efficiency reforms. We started the budget consultation last week with an expert hearing, and the experts have largely confirmed that we should review every tax euro we use for the individual sectors in future as far as efficiency is concerned. This concerns, for example, the issue of education, where Mr. Marterbauer also mentioned that the output does not correspond to the input. In other words, we still need to make some efforts to increase efficiency, for example as regards investment or money flowing into the labour market. However, I would also like to address some of the points that Mr Strache mentioned, for example, and come to the issue of cold progression. It is quite clear to us that after the tax reform with a volume of €5 billion, the issue of cold progression must finally be addressed. The Minister of Finance has announced this, that is right, but at the moment we are not yet in agreement with our coalition partner, because of course our coalition partner wants much more distribution from top to bottom. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe you have the wrong partner!]] We do not want to do that, but we want an increase in levels at all levels, we simply want a valorization for all levels of taxation, because those who earn more also pay more taxes, and these can then be distributed again. Every other euro of taxation goes to the social sector. We are proud of this, but of course it must come in. Therefore: eliminate the cold progression, but do not continue to distribute from top to bottom! We don't want new taxes either. In the budget hearing, fantasies in connection with new taxes – property taxes, inheritance taxes – have also been announced over and over again, because with everything you want to invest, it is always thought that new taxes are simply the final conclusion of wisdom. We say that we do not want new taxes, because new taxes would only weaken economic growth, which is only a delicate plant anyway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We don't want that, we don't stand by it. [[Call:... Asset tax]] We don't need property taxes, colleague, we don't need inheritance tax either, on the contrary, we want people to have a lower tax burden, but we like to pay taxes for it, because we also know where the taxes are lower, we can collect more taxes. [[Abg. Kickl: We already have them!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] That is why we want to abolish the cold progression. We held intensive discussions last week, and as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to thank Mr Finanzminister and also the Budget Section officials who were always present in the Budget Committee, the staff of all the other ministers and the Parliamentary Directorate, not only those who served us in the hall, but also those outside the hall. I think they have contributed to the smooth running of the budget consultation. I would also like to join Mr Dr. I would like to thank Berger of the budget service, who has not only done the analyses with his staff, but also the Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. And I would also like to thank the opposition for the constructive deliberations of many Members, which is why it is annoyed that Mr Lugar is here today and is speaking again in this way. [[Abg. Lugar: What? What exactly do you not like? Incredible!]] Despite differing positions, it was worthy of a very constructive debate in the sense of our House and also of the House. Finally, I would like to thank my two alternates, Mr Matznetter and Mr Haider. We have jointly made sure that the budget can be decided on Thursday. I hope that the political groups will agree that they will be able to achieve something good on the one or other point of the budget that we decide on Thursday.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9653	Next, Mr Magistrate. Haider on the floor. I'll set the clock to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9674	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear viewers on the gallery and dear taxpayers in front of the TV screens! Before I focus more on the analysis of the budget, I would like to give a few more figures: The government debt currently amounts to almost €299 billion, while the gross domestic product in 2016 amounts to approximately €352 billion. So that means a debt of 85 percent, and it is probably clear to everyone that this debt ratio is far too high. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because Mrs Tamandl has concluded that she hopes that the opposition will perhaps find something positive in this budget, after the Federal Government itself has apologised for this budget already presented in the speech of the Minister for Finance – I am already in the only positive outcome of this budget –: The debt ratio is expected to fall slightly, from 85 percent of GDP to 80.9, i.e. 81 percent of GDP. Unfortunately – and that is what it was – it is because the gross domestic product is rising. That is, the only reason why the level of indebtedness is the rising gross domestic product and not the policy of this federal government. No, quite the contrary, unfortunately, she does everything she can to destroy this effect again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So we have a budget where the difference between revenue and expenditure, that is, real revenue and real expenditure, is €9 billion in the earnings budget – €9 billion in deficit! – and in the financing budget it is still €4.3 billion. This value is enormously high, I would point it out in particular, although the interest rate level is so low and we are looking for very, very low interest rates for our debts. And it is not even in this situation that the Federal Government manages to keep the deficit lower or, as is the case in Germany or Switzerland, to generate surpluses – yet this deficit, this disaster nevertheless. This low level of interest rates is extremely negative for individual citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Köchl.]] For savings, there is almost no money left, the savings is no longer worth involving inflation, and by this sluggish and constant expropriation of savings, the state shrinks, this federal government is also pushing the citizens to the taxes and taxes. And in Austria, the tax rate is not very weak with about 44 percent – almost half of what the citizen generates, the state registers. The collective reform, which was adopted last year and which entered into force for the first time this year, has made little provision here. On the one hand, income from income and wealth taxes has fallen slightly, but on the other hand, consumption and transport tax revenues have increased almost to the same extent. To sum up, the tax performance of our citizens has remained almost the same. Mr Finanzminister, I imagine a real reduction in the tax rate quite differently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Klubobmann Strache has already mentioned it: The Minister of Finance can continue to look forward to a secret tax increase in the form of cold progression every year. Much is being discussed about an end to this additional burden, especially for the highly audited medium-sized countries, but actions have not yet been set by this Federal Government. Obviously, when it comes to the discharge of citizens, the Federal Government is not so quick at all. But in Austria, too, it is not far from possible with the administrative and structural reform, which would make a sustainable recovery of the budget possible at all. There are enough ideas – I am referring only to the Austrian Convention or to the Court of Auditors’ proposals – but there is a need to point out in detail that the Federal Government has already undertaken and already implemented budgetary consolidation measures. You have to imagine this: In 2011, a debt brake was decided here in this House. It was decided that the deficit should not exceed 0.45 percent from 2017. So now with that of the year 2017, the first draft budget is where this debt brake should take place – and now we have a deficit of 0.9 percent, that is, one at a double level. This is where the EU can be presented: Yes, in that there are 2 billion € costs for refugees from this refugee and immigration crisis that is due to the open borders!, and the same, but you have to pay it anyway. And what does this federal government do? – This difference from the allowed 0.45 percent to the actual 0.9 percent is booked on a corrective account, and that’s all right again. In this way you lie in your own pocket in Austria. This is budget trickery, so laws are passed on to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: This is also the case in the law!]] – “This is also the case in the law!” says the Federal Minister: a legal trickery, but a trickery still remains. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the Crux with this Federal Government Even if, as with the debt brake or also with the transparency database – these are all good ideas! – a good approach is pursued, this federal government is able to distort these good ideas into the unknown and rob them of any sense of purpose. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] Certainly there would be much to be said about the cost drivers in the budget – the cost of social pensions, pensions, education is increasing more and more – and there is certainly also a need for reform so that these costs can be handled, but the true cost drivers who sit behind me [[Call the ÖVP: There's no one sitting there!]] The real cost drivers, that's this federal government. They are the biggest cost drivers in this country, and that confirms this budget once again impressive.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9796	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9818	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A well-developed infrastructure and a stable social environment as well as well-trained workers are referred to as key factors for the choice of a business location in all surveys among economic operators. Ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the Committee on Transport, it is of course the subject of the well-developed infrastructure, which I personally very much welcome. In my opinion, it is clear: The development and maintenance of infrastructure and public transport are central tasks of the State, i.e. the public sector. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In order to optimally fulfil these tasks and secure medium-term financing, the Infrastructure Framework Plan has been created, which is updated under the budget accompanying legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the updated framework for 2017-2022, €15.2 billion will be invested in the expansion of infrastructure during this period. Around two thirds of this sum flows into the expansion of the rail, a third of it flows into the extension of the road. These are about € 2 billion a year in investment in the rails. Ladies and gentlemen! The objectives of this investment offensive are actually quite clear: shorter driving times, more capacity in passenger and freight transport, more safety and more accessibility. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! However, it is not only invested in the expansion of the large axes, quite the contrary: Around €4 billion will be invested in train station modernisation, park-and-ride facilities, Wi-Fi and noise protection. All of this is investment in areas that directly benefit citizens and feel them. Of course, there is also investment in the large corridors. The modernisation and attraction of the South Railway and the link between Vienna and the East have the highest priority. The goal is, ladies and gentlemen, to return the Vienna–Klagenfurt line in the future in 2 hours 40 minutes – without congestion, without stress. I think we all agree: There's going to be so fun for railway rides, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Köchl.]] These investments also contribute to the gradual implementation of Austrian cycle traffic, as has been the case in Vienna and Lower Austria since 2015. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, it should be noted that: Every cent that is invested is worth it – especially in times like these, as they have often been addressed today. In times of high unemployment, this investment is extremely important. Our investment is therefore not only investment in public transport and in rail freight transport, it is also a living economic and social policy and is also extremely important for the future of the state. We are creating, ladies and gentlemen, an economic impulse with these investments, which is as large as in hardly any other area. Finally, a few more numbers because they are important to me: With around €2 billion of investment in infrastructure, we secure over 40 000 jobs throughout Austria. Over the entire framework period, around 300 000 jobs and value added of around €20 billion are only in the construction phase. Ladies and gentlemen, with the expansion of the environmentally friendly rail, the course for the successful future of Austria is truly set. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9888	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e9909	Madam President. High house! A sentence in the previous debate made me very bright: Austria must remain at the forefront of the social state. – This sentence from your mouth, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, is probably an increase for every referee and every member of the minimum guarantee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, were in the last few weeks the summit towers for the reduction of minimum security, and you are also responsible, Mr Colleague, for the fact that there has not been a uniform system for minimum security across Austria. [[Abg. Lopatka: There we still stay at the top!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] They are also responsible for having this socio-political downturn in minimum security. Shame, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: He doesn't have a genius!]] But now to the 2017 budget: The budget is one of the central governance instruments for the key challenges we face in Austria, and the key question is: Is this budget going to meet the key challenges or not? [[Abg. Fekter: Yes, it will!]] - Well, wait a little! Let's start at the labour market: We have a very high unemployment rate, and I would remind you that one of the experts in budget hearing, Dr. Stefan Ederer, meant that if we want to create the trend change in the labour market, we need additional investment. This has also been said by the European Commission, Mr Minister, because Commissioner Moscovici has called for a cautious change in the trend, a path of this extinction course by saying that Europe needs a more expansive budgetary course – that is, more investment. [[Abg. Fekter: Moscovici... Communist, isn't it?]] And that from the mouth of an EU Commissioner! Whoever rejected this, Mr. Finanzminister, were you and also your colleague, Mr Schäuble. The restriction that Moscovici made was: if there were room for play. – The question is: Is there any room for play? Another expert in budget hearing, Dr. Markus Marterbauer, said: Yes, there are budgetary margin 2017 and these must be used if we are to create the trend change on the labour market. [[Abg. Fekter: Is he back for new taxes?]] – There is room for play, I said, Mrs. Colleague. Even if more resources are used to combat unemployment, one thing is missing: additional investment in important areas. I believe that climate protection is one of the key areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! What's going on here is really a sad game. Investment in climate protection could indeed be a job engine. It is indeed time to act after the climate meeting in Marrakech and after the ratification of the agreement. If we look at this budget, we must say: There is nothing on the expenditure side – not just nothing, the expenditure is even shortened. When we look at the revenue side, on the other hand, we see: Nothing's happening there either. The Greens have already presented a concept for an eco-social tax reform in 1998. To date, this has not been implemented. You, Mr Finanzminister, told us in the committee that you will set up a working group. – Well, my God, so many working groups are being used and never will anything be implemented. By the way, like Mr. Vice-Chanceller Mitterlehner, you are always of the opinion that an eco-social tax reform can only take place if this is done in the international equinox. – No, that is not necessary at all, because Austria is not at the top of the European states with eco-taxes. So there's room for play. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Get active in this respect! Eco-social tax reform and more investment in climate protection, says Nobel prize winner Paul Krugman, are also a solution to the key economic problems. But if you want to introduce this trend change, it is not enough to speak big words, then it needs political will. You lack this political will, unfortunately. Let us turn to another area, education! Yeah, there's more money, that's right. There is €525 million more. But that's where holes are stopped, and that's what it was again. But what about child care? What about research and development? [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] What about investments in housing, Mr. Minister? – Yes, there is simply no additional money there and there is no additional investment. And why not, Minister? – Because you constantly agree that we have an expenditure problem. But let's make a fact-finding check: Between 2010 and 2015, the expenditure ratio fell by one percentage point, Mr. Minister! In 2016, the expenditure ratio will fall, with the expenditure ratio falling in 2017. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Schelling.]] – Mr Minister, your permanent statements do not comply with the fact-finding check. What you are saying is out-of-box; as is the case with many other speakers here on this pult. So if Mr Klubobmann has claimed from NEOS that Austria has the second highest tax rate in Belgium, this is simply and simply wrong. It's not right. Higher rates have other countries, including Denmark and France, then Belgium comes, then Finland comes and then Austria comes. [[Abg. Fekter: The Greens as a tax driver!]] – Mrs Colleague, look Once you've got a table! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] And if the Minister is constantly saying that we have an expenditure problem, he always targets the pension area. Thankfully, Mr Schieder has already pointed out that pensions have not been the cost driver in recent years, nor are they the cost driver in the long run. Mr. Minister, your own studies commissioned by you, the long-term budget forecast from spring, show this. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] So finally stop this panic counter à la FPÖ! If you apply the cuts you announce in pension insurance, we are dealing with a veritable problem of poverty in Austria. We don't want that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Finanzminister, in your budget speech, you meant that we had to leave old trample paths and go to fresh thinking approaches. Now, if we take the new financial compensation, we have to say: Well, there's no talk about fresh thinking. What we can see, however, is that money and wealth have been the central leader in these financial compensatory negotiations and that the fresh approaches that could have led to a genuine reform have actually been kept on track. Mr Finanzminister, once again you have been kneeling before the powerful Land Princes, who just want to: Money and retention of power. I now quote Mr Wallner, who is quoted in an APA issue. In fact, Wallner has urged the parties of the Vorarlberger Landtag to look at the financial compensation in practical terms and to stop the theorization. - Well, that's all right, but then it comes: “Under the rule, count how much money flows to Vorarlberg and how freely the country can decide on it. “ He goes on to say: “Vorarlberg wants to go back to what Vorarlberg pays, then you’ll be ready to support others.” – As long as this spirit reigns in financial settlement negotiations, Minister, we will never be able to overcome the parched federal structures in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10107	Next, Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10128	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Dear Seers! To Mr Rossmann: Decisions on Social Affairs You are not – thank God, I say – because what you want, new burdens, higher taxes, that can certainly not be social. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On behalf of Mr Haider of the Liberals: Yes, I admit, and I am always concerned that the debt ratio – that is what our Finance Minister says – is actually too high. There is a lot in the past, including a debacle that has its cause in Carinthia. [[Call the FPÖ:Jessas Maria!]] You know that, and you should also say again and again why in recent years this debt ratio has so increased. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget is a solid basis for the further development of this federal budget in the coming years. It has already been said that the debt brake, but also the expenditure analysis at all levels, with the intention to use the funds as efficiently as possible, is a key step towards a systematic approach to the objective – and the aim is not to make new debts any more. By the way – Mr Strolz is not here now –: Also the €34 000, which are presented on the NEOS T-shirts today, are too much for me. But one should be differentiated, because these €34 000, if they are voting at all, are also valued, and we should always say that in this discussion – values, among other things – Mr. Anton Heinzl has already presented it – which we are, for example, in the infrastructure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] We also decide on the so-called framework plan, which ensures that long-term projects can be implemented in the rail infrastructure. There are major construction projects, such as the three tunnel projects Semmering, Koralm and Brenner Base Tunnel, as well as station renovations throughout Austria. There will be a strong investment in this, and at the moment jobs will be secured, and it is hoped that some of them will be added. But what I can't do with – that was a statement from our Minister for Transport – is to loosen the Maastricht criteria also in this context, because I believe that we can find our results in this federal budget with the money we receive from taxpayers. I believe that with creativity and efficiency improvements in this federal budget, we can still find enough levers to make further investments. We just need to think about it. I can also give you an example: Infrastructure AG no longer lends its own bonds, but is financed by the state's financing agency, and this alone saves the state between € 15 and 17 million in the next years – which is likely to increase this even further – with constant performance. This is a small example, and if we find several such, then, I think, we are on a good path. Summary: We invest a lot in rail infrastructure. This will benefit citizens, as the railway will become even more attractive; over €2 billion will flow into these construction programmes in the next few years. [[Abg. Moser: How is that financed?]] To conclude: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have confidence in our finance ministers and also in his employees. One thing is also crucial in this context: It is about the actual execution in 2017. As I said, I have confidence in the Minister and his team to ensure that the budget is respected accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10196	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10217	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the visitor gallery! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to draw your attention to Austria's state debt, which is currently €292 billion. If you don’t believe it, you can also go to “state debt.at”, you can watch the government debt while growing for so long that you get dizzy. Tick, tock! – this goes on every second, and the dramatic debt in Austria is unfortunately not as important as it should be, otherwise we probably would not have a net result of minus €9 billion in the 2017 federal estimate and would not make €4 billion new debt. We are known to be almost nowhere in the world in sports, but we are strict in doing so by consistently spending more money each year than we take. ÖVP and SPÖ are – and this is really what you have to say – irrational to the next generation by making new debts. At a historically Keynesianist party like the SPÖ, I do not know, however, what this says about the ÖVP is perhaps still understandable. And it goes on: Tick, tock! While I'm talking, further debts are made. They are constantly and ever-increasing politics where one lives beyond one's own conditions, leaving the next generation with an ever-increasing debt mountain. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] This debt mountain is a ticking time bomb. Since we have relatively low interest rates, this may not look so bad at the moment, but it develops a dynamic that makes it worse and worse. Let's call the child by name! – The government are really the boys and the next generations. Today we have heard from Klubobmann Schieder, the budget is sustainable. – Yes, in what alternative reality, please? This is the highest Kreisky fanfiction, but it simply doesn't exist in this way anymore. They also rob the next generation of their democratic right to decide on their future. The money we spend too much now is the money that the next generation lacks to be able to make decisions on its own future in order to determine for themselves how the money should be used to determine where investment can be made. Tick, tock! – It is still going on, debt is still being incurred. Of course, the list of speakers today is significant for this. I am not only in the general debate now, but – as I have just looked at myself – all day over the only speaker under 30 years of age. This may also be significant for the value that young people have here in Parliament. Youth policy is often a soft theme, you might say. One of the big questions that young people are about – and that is what I am telling you above – is about debt. [[towards visitor gallery, where many young people sit]] Debts concern us too! These concern us, above all, because in the future we will be able to decide how we want to shape our Republic. Tick, tock! – It continues to go on, debt is still being incurred. I think you have to say, too, that it is unfair for us to continue making debts on the shoulders of the next generation. It is really unfair pension policy that we are doing here. It is unfair for the next generation to say: We are now making a pensioner, because we have the money so well in our pocket, because we have suddenly spent less because of the beautiful budgeting we have made over the past few years! – That’s just not true! This 100 €, for which one obviously now suddenly has room again, is 100 €, which the next generation per head also lacks again. Someone's got to pay for that too! We are still unable to address the real problems in the pension system – still not! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The proposals for this mini-reform, which is to be made in the pension sector, which is now on the table, will not solve any problem at all. [[Abg. Matznetter: They did it!]] It is still not the luxury pensions, the luxury pensions, for which the sector on the left is always very committed. - Thank you for that. [[Abg. Matznetter: You have been able to study for free because we did it!]] It is unfair that there is still a chronic gap in the education budget and that universities are still under-financed in a chronic way; that is unfair! [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Generational contract!]] We can't let our boys like this anymore! We can't let all of us like this anymore! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: That's incredible!]] We are committed to single social systems and to a fair budgetary policy, and that means no further debt! - Tick, tock!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10340	The next item is the report by Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10361	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Gamon, you are still young, and that is why I would like to explain to you: We in Austria have a so-called generation contract that warrants us that the generations who build your schools have built you your university, that we have financed you the study that we do not forget these people who have worked all this out in old age. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak.]] In December 2011, we recorded the debt brakes by law. I was proud of it at the time, because I was the Minister of Finance at the time. Since then we have a consistent path towards zero deficit. [[Abg. Lugar: Where?]] For those who have already forgotten: After 2009, we have reversed to maintain prosperity and stability in Austria. As a result, the deficit has been increased, and then we have pulled the brake, namely, the debt brake is legally anchored and gradually seen that the deficits are coming down again. That's what I call responsible politics! This objective provides that 0.35% of GDP is the limit. Countries, municipalities and social security agencies should jointly budget balance, and this should take place for the first time in 2017. A correction account will be set up for surpluses, i.e. if the deficit does not come to a precise point – this too has been laid down by law at the time. This correction account is monitored by the EU, and therefore it is in our highest interest that we rebalance it as soon as possible. A deficit is justifiable if one has to counter it for unforeseen reasons, but also so that there is not too rapid a brake. It's like driving a car: When you make an emergency brake, you fly through the windshield. [[Abg. New builder: There's an airbag!]] Therefore, in order not to slow down the economy so that research does not exist without money, so that the welfare state does not weaken, it is necessary to take care to do so. [[Abg. Kassinger: Aren't you hooked up?]] The Minister of Finance has done this, and for the third time we already have a structural zero deficit. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Of course, I also think that debt is too high, €293 billion, which is 80.9% of economic performance, because GDP is €363 billion. At the same time, however, we have adopted a Stability Pact with the countries and with the municipalities and also with the EU, and this Stability Pact has clear objectives. With these financial market stability objectives, which are the basic prerequisite for growth, we must continue to be a stable country in which we can invest in the future and at the same time guarantee the welfare state. All those who believe that this financial market stability is not necessary, who believe that these goals can be thrown overboard – Maastricht deficit, what do we care about? Debt ratio, what do we care about? – to look at Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy and Ireland. – There is no room left for the welfare state or for future investment! That is therefore dangerous and robs us of any room for free. – Mr Rossmann, that was also written to you in the main book! [[Abg. Rossmann: cause... do not confuse!]] With new tax fantasies, we will not bring this country to the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We look into the future, and we also look at Austria. The opposition finds everything bad, the pity that budgets don't hold, I know enough! [[Abg. Steinbichler: No wonder because the government...!]] But I'll tell you one thing: Austria is a beautiful country, Austria is a stable country, Austria is a safe country, Austria is a rich country. Thank you to the people of our country for paying taxes and working hard for modest prosperity. [[Abg. Moser: You deserve a better budget!]] We here in Parliament have the responsibility to do so, and we by the government parties shoulder this responsibility. We will succeed with courage to achieve and with optimism for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10488	The next speaker is Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10526	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Listeners on the gallery and, of course, especially those in front of the televisions! In this budget debate, many things were raised by my previous speakers, from the cold progression to unemployment, and, as we have just heard, it has also been tried to speak very well. We are talking about a zero deficit, Mrs Fekter, and I would never allow our children to be told that we have built the schools for them. I wouldn't have been happy if my father had kept me from building the farm, and my son wouldn't like it if I told him I built the farm. I think it is the most reasonable and necessary to have a proper education system, because education is very, very important – I am still returning to it on the topics of companies and research – but there is no need to keep up with the young generation, but we are quite happy when the young people are ready for education and take advantage of these institutions! An educated youth is the future, is important for a good common future. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At this point, I would like to express my thanks to the entire education sector and to its employees and, of course, to the students who are willing to learn. Because the former Minister of Finance has just praised this budget, I can say: You can't join him like that! If again € 4.5 billion of new debt is due to our anchors, if these €9 billion, which are only available through the interest-rate advantage, cannot be used for new design measures, but must be used to stop holes, then we cannot speak of a future-looking and even not, as Mr Klubobmann Schieder said, a sustainable budget. I can only mention the director of Stiegl brewery, Kiener, who wrote this beautiful book “On a Beer With John Maynard Keynes”. He describes that the word sustainability is usually misused. I believe that if one speaks of a sustainable budget in this budget, then that is a typical abuse. Because it's always said that the opposition is talking badly: On the contrary, the opposition has no chance of landing with its good proposals in the case of this government, which merely delays, delays and manages. That was wonderful: Mrs Tamandl has not only shone by excellent chairmanship in the Committee on Budgets, but also today by talking about the subject immediately. And that corresponds to the result we now have: Only client policy, only mutual supply policy, holding place, defending the system and putting itself in the way of any reform! This is the result we find here. I would like to present small differences and come to the statements by Mr Klubobmann Lopatka. A very good example is the following: If you still cry CETA and TTIP, this is a logic that we often have in practice: If someone doesn't control his business at home, then he goes into the wide world and gets there. [[Call the ÖVP: Just like you!]] That's, I think, exactly the problem! I bring a very positive example from Switzerland: Markus Kaiser gave a lecture at the Rotarians in Linz. He left the Chamber of Commerce five years ago, went to Switzerland and is now working at the Swiss SKO. This is the Swiss framework organisation, in which 340 companies have gathered, which are really working and successful according to the latest principles, according to the latest studies, according to the latest research. I can briefly read the principles of this SKO: The successful pillars of the Swiss economy: free entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial thinking, moderate tax system, private consumption and investment as a national size, promotion of performance thinking. - Quote. I think we have a very big deficit here: I hear again and again that we have to put in place re-training measures and education measures, but I would like to make it quite clear here that: Work is life's content, work is joy of life, and work is a sense of life. I think we also need to redefine this term again and should not begin on Monday in the early morning that the week will last four days. I believe that this problem will be discussed in further budget chapters. It is also stated in the principles of SKO, a high innovation potential is important. And on the question of what makes Switzerland rich, six Swiss strengths are defined more closely. But the motto is very important: The people are the boss! Where, please, do we feel that in this budget, the power in a democracy comes from the people that we have to represent the people here and take into account its concerns and fears? I was only at the Chamber of Commerce in Vöcklabruck yesterday, and I have experienced the fatal mood of the entrepreneurs who have come to the information event on the means of decommissioning for this fiscal year. You have experienced with concern the effects of the registration bank obligation in all the details, and this has triggered 90 percent of the hundred headaches present. I have said that it would be good if many of the colleagues here in Parliament would in fact often discuss the impact of legislation in practice not only but also experience it. I think that would be very important. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Another point to mention is Germany. I have already mentioned the economic economist Wiegard, Mr. Minister, who developed the 2010 Agenda for the chancellor Schröder at that time, containing the essential points whose fruits Chancellor Merkel actually reaps today. There have been timely measures – detectable measures, not cosmetic measures – which are still effective today and of which Germany still lives today, in contrast to Austria. We had an excursion to Berlin in the Bundestag. In contrast to Austria, where a small economic referendum is sold as a huge reform, there is an optimal order situation, the entrepreneurs are satisfied, they almost speak of the fact that they cannot fulfill the orders. And at the same time as the economy is booming, one is already working on a medium-sized action programme in Germany. – So, I think you have to make forward-looking policy. Even football teams are successful if they do not fall back to zero and say: Now we defend!, but attack and drive home with a three-to-zero victory. I think that's the big difference. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We must take an example of this – and there are these examples, we do not always need any brains, such as international trade agreements. Now I am back on the subject and come back to the statements by Klubobmann Lopatka. I would like to give a typical example of a company that did it without TTIP and CETA. I have recently called the Magna Group of Frank Stronach, today I would like to call an industrial company from my district, Vöcklabruck, which released record numbers last week, namely Lenzing AG: 3 500 employees, international competition from China, from America, from India, and they are at this time creating these successes – without CETA, without TTIP. And how can you do that? [[Abg. Fekter: Yes, because they do it in Asia!]] – Thank you, Mrs Fekter, but it is exactly the other way round! There are the prejudices of so-called economic representatives! The exact opposite is the case! That was the right call at the right time! No, the secret recipe of Lenzing AG – and I may mention at this point the President-in-Office, but also his predecessor who sowed the seed, Director Untersperger – is that they have kept research, application technology and everything else in the house and have not been out of stock. Your call was wrong! They have not outsourced to Asia, but the Asians buy from them because they themselves do not achieve this quality. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Right!]] [[Abg. Fekter: But they make sales in Asia!]] Mrs Fekter! Another example is the Boehringer Ingelheim, a pharmaceutical company that works exactly according to this principle. Unlike colleagues in the other pharmaceuticals who have outsourced research, they have kept research in the house and are now writing success stories again and investing €100 million. This is a very simple message, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, you have always said that we do not have a revenue problem, but an expenditure problem. And if we support our businesses if our businesses can work economically successfully, then everything else – the labour market, the order situation, the research – is a logic of successful companies. In this direction – red tape, structural reforms – it is important to work, not just before country elections – because we are talking about Upper Austria. It won't help if, in the face of the threatening election defeats, the flash quickly hits the bureaucracy, but the thunderstorm is over again in the evening of the election. That's the problem! This policy of announcement has brought us where we are. Austria is indeed a great location, Austria is competitive, and Austria does not need an international free trade agreement, but we simply cannot hinder our innovative entrepreneurs, managers, workers and workers, then we are doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10633	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10655	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would just like to say to my previous speaker – he probably forgot it somehow – that Austria has an export rate of well over 60 percent. More than 60 percent go to export, and Austria cannot and will not shut down. Austria needs the market outside Austria, only today's topic, ladies and gentlemen, neither CETA nor TTIP. [[Abg. Steinbichler: With quality it will always be...!]] You talk about things like that when you don't know what it's about in the budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, keeping a budget means keeping a line, and for us politicians it means keeping a word, because the budget is training the Austrian population. I can quote our Minister for Finance Schelling, who said, not we in the House, but the Austrians are schooling this budget. As a long-standing mayor, I know what it means to create a budget. I did this 15 times. The essential thing was that what we made up was what we discussed with the other political groups. Of course, it may also be in the context of a budget that perhaps a slope slips or causes a storm damage. [[Abg. Kogler: With us the whole government slips, not the slope!]] Of course, we have to be flexible, we have to see that we can also set up the funds, but it is also about security for the Austrian population, that what we have negotiated with other ministers, that what the Federal Minister for Finance submits, that this budget is not only accepted, but also carried along. – I'm actually expecting that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The 2017 budget was drawn up in agreement with all the departments and, of course, the aim of our Minister of Finance was to create a budget without new debts – of course! He wanted a budget with surpluses that would create scope for an active and innovative policy. Otherwise, I can't. We need money, we simply need the innovation of the economy, and we need secure jobs so that we can keep the social state. It was mentioned by our clubman Lopatka today: What happened to all these plans? – It was the current development. I'm just saying one word: Refugee crisis. This has faced us with great humanitarian, security and thus also financial challenges. €83 million to address the impact of the refugee crisis, €250 million for the integration offensive, for German and value courses – very important measures, which are the basis for a peaceful and tolerant social interaction. We have, however, also made available in this budget, and this seems to me to be a substantial sum of development cooperation beyond the national borders. This area is estimated at €92.5 million, which is €17.1 million more for development aid. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we agree that local aid is probably the most efficient and best – in the interests of our population, but also in the interests of the affected populations. Of course, we also had to increase the resources for the measures of our country, for the interior area, for security is not only an emotional matter, a subjective feeling, but it needs the security of citizens, especially of girls and women. Thus, €3.47 billion will be made available for the interior resort – €440 million more. The situation must be met, and the Federal Minister for Finance has. The following have also been mentioned: The tax reform, which is already effective this year, has made it possible for us to see light on the horizon – the economic data show a slight upturn of 1.6 percent – that much is improving. Nevertheless, and we should not hide that, we have huge problems on the labour market. We have the highest unemployment since the 1950s, and this must be countered. In this respect too, Minister of Finance Schelling said quite clearly: We need new measures, we need active labour market policies, and we also need to review these measures. We can't put billions in and don't know how they work. It needs this review, because we need to know very easily where these means of taxation are going. Unemployment must no longer be managed in the future, but effective action must be taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Austrian People's Party, are facing a budgetary policy course of consolidation and growth promotion, all with measure and objective, and the Minister of Finance has proved this with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10717	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10739	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! In international comparison, we are at the top of the high tax countries with a tax rate of 44.4 percent in 2015. This means that, with an average Austrian salary, almost every second euro has been paid to the state in 2015. Due to the tax reform, it does not look much better for 2016. [[Abg. Fekter: Oh, yes, 42.7 percent!]] – Read the statistics Austria, Mrs Colleague! Austria is one of the few EU countries to which the EU Commission, as in previous years, is forecasting real wage losses for 2017 and 2018, Mrs Finanzminister a. D.. [[Abg. Fekter: Down!]] [[Abg. Fekter: 42.7 percent!]] Only by abolishing the cold progression can the middle class be relieved permanently and effectively, but not by new taxes such as the investment and the anti-location of machinery. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fekter: The tax rate has fallen!]] ==References====External links== In May 2016, the Federal Chancellor expressed the following opinion: “In international comparison, we have the situation that gross income remains the second most net.” – Only five months after this interview, the Federal Chancellor has already changed his opinion. ==References== In October 2016, according to the Council of Ministers, the Federal Chancellor said that the abolition of the cold progression was not from the table, but the time pressure was not so serious. I quote: “It is probably not of relevance until the beginning of 2019. Such an intervention into the tax system should be carefully discussed, namely that it is not so easy to implement.’ The Minister of Finance also sees no time pressure in the negotiations on the abolition of cold progression. On the question of whether it will be concluded this year, he said that this is not relevant, since it is only to be taken later. Mr Finanzminister, the taxpayers are not allowed to sell either by you or by Mr Bundeskanzler with your home tactics for stupid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The 2015/2016 tax reform will return to taxpayers from this year's €5 billion, which has been taken away by cold progression since 2009, i.e. in the past. However, you, Mr. Finanzminister, and Mr. Bundeskanzler comfort the taxpayers with the clear excuse that cold progression can only take place in a few years. That's not true. The cold progression is not only attacking 2019, but already this year, it must therefore be abolished immediately! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the federal level, the taxpayers are cut off by the red and black Federal Government, and at the level of the country of Vienna, the citizens are cut off by the massive increases in fees from the red-green city government. Thus, as a Vienna taxpayer, you will be sacked twice – and both times under the decisive participation of the Social Democrats! If the Federal Chancellor believes that the abolition of the cold progression is not legislatively easy to implement, then we will be happy to introduce ourselves here. I shall therefore put forward a motion for a resolution on the abolition of cold progression this week. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a note on the savings bank interest rates: In reality, the Minister of Finance collects taxes on interest which you really don't get at all. If you deduct inflation from interest rates, then nothing will be left in real terms. The money is getting less, and you still have to pay taxes. This is a expropriation of the hardy savers and a sham tax that must be abolished just as much as the cold progression.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10840	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10862	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A little uninspired is the whole debate here already. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Perhaps the Minister of Finance has already lost the pleasure in his own budget and in governing it, but he does not want to be hurt, alone, it does not help to hide the so-called - and I am not afraid to speak here, although it is already a correct term, which has already been suppressed by various commentators and by our own industry, politics, - the need for reform, of which there is enough. The opposition is always held here – except for the Minister of Finance other than Dr. Fekter, who has thrown this into the arena – that she is always against everything. [[Abg. Fekter: That's it!]] – My God, look, let’s stop dealing with her biography here, but say one thing clearly: On the other hand, it is true that there are always proposals here, which is what group, as we can achieve a meaningful ratio of revenue and expenditure – and that is, in essence, the budget. I'm never afraid to give a few clues from this point of view – others then explain something else anyway, including some of the opposition – where there is too little going on where it could be saved. I find the concept of saving positive in itself, in contrast to the term shorts. Much of what is going on in Europe – by the way, less in Austria, but partly also with us – under inventive short-terms is doing much more damage than it brings benefits, as is claimed. This is the drama of the current financial and economic policy. But where nothing goes on is quickly identified: This is not immediately to be found in the annual balance sheet of the next budget, but if we are already on these issues, where something should go on, then we will be able to stop – and we cannot save ourselves, because so much space here in the house is often not for this kind of debate – for the financial compensation and for the strangely lived Austrian federalism event, which is in reality nothing but a wasteful billion folklore. This is about billions in a year. The Federal Minister is trying to get there or there, but there is too little going on. A lot of money is involved in both health and education. And it is never about the fact that the health system in Austria, which is working very well in itself over long distances, – that is to say, it must be said – should be limited in terms of the benefits to patients, but it is about how much money will be put into the system and what comes out there at the end. This is, as I have said, a lot of money, but it goes far too little further, because in this country all health policy is made, not the Minister of Health, because she does not even get involved because there are too many people, which means that all the reform efforts remain. Now you can only hope that the cost-damaging path, which has been agreed, will be followed, because I think it is easy – without presenting the figures here now – that this can be achieved in this sense. But if you look at the structures behind it, you see: Zero news! And I know how it is, because now the Greens are also represented in national governments: When it comes to this money, there is – and it has already been suggested a few times – just some kind of barrier to information. However, I can assure you now that we will be in a very different position from the previous national government negotiations and advocating financial compensatory negotiations, because this kind of culture of destabilization is simply no longer acceptable, and unfortunately much goes on from the countries as well. Where else do you see that? – This can also be seen in the transparency of the promotions. That's incredible! To date, we do not know which companies receive which funding – often from the municipalities to the countries to the federal government. In addition, as has been mentioned more often, the funding is the most transparent. There has been a lot of success. [[Abg. Fekter nods consenting.]] – You're right to nod! [[Abg. Fekter: But you also have to say that...!]] But what you really see is that nothing goes on – this also applies to other questions where the attitude is similar – is the whole story with the liabilities of the federal states and since the speculation ban. They're trying to push out more and more success than really happened. The rules of liability may change a little. But you just have to imagine what it has been so far, so that you can imagine this culture: The liability for the banks has accounted for most of the federal states! For the banks! And this has been State of the Art. There will be some improvement, but the ban on speculation really remains the same. We have had a start here that we should take, on a constitutional majority basis, a decision that would have predicted a single ban on speculation. That is why we Greens did not agree – admittedly, others did not! The consequence was that instead of really having done this with two-thirds majority, the people concerned have only done quite what they wanted. And now what does it look like? – In Lower Austria, housing funds could still be speculated just as in those days, because in Lower Austria, according to Article 15a agreement, the majority can simply say: With us, what we're holding here is no speculation at all! – But €1.5 billion would still be gone. That's why I'm saying: As long as They do not really fight this attitude everywhere, including in your federal states, for so long nothing will go on! [[towards ÖVP]] And there's plenty of savings. Now we're making a big line below and look at this: Where would we need this money? – Of course, with the investments! It is not only in Europe, but also in Austria that much more could and should be done. I also do not understand in this context the German Chancellor's core that he is producing himself here and explains: Well, if we turn it around and calculate it, then there is €800 million more investment, and on the other hand – which has already been explained by SPÖ speakers today – the distributed ones are added again! So I've got to say, We must make every effort to find additional investment or investment incentives in the budget. It's hard to find. This is all the more wrong than it must be perfectly clear in the current economic situation that it does not go without public incentives, including financial incentives, and real direct public investment. And there should be enough to do, in the whole field of energy efficiency technology and environmental technology, something should go on. Austria is falling back everywhere. We were there far ahead, even in many business sectors, but not because, but despite politics! And that belonged to me now, but nothing happens. Finally, because the Federal Chancellor has been so offensively on the road lately, I would like to add this book here, if you like, to the Minutes: [[Keeping a specimen in height]] ‘The capital of the State’. The Federal Chancellor was now at the Economic Union, invited everyone there and made another wonderful event for the gallery. However, this book by Mariana Mazzucato entitled “The Capital of the State” has nothing to do with this budget. One will be able to demand from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany quite slowly that he redeem more of what he is quite talented here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10938	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e10966	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! More than half of the federal budget flows into the welfare state: 11.1 per cent in the labour market, 4 per cent in social and consumer protection, 13.8 per cent in pension insurance for the normally insured, 11.9 per cent in the pension system for officials, ridiculous 1.4 per cent in the health budget and in the women sector and 8.9 per cent in the areas of family and youth. And while in many areas of the budget one looks at exactly how the money is spent, one misses measures, especially in these large chunks, which should increase reliability and effectiveness. We do not find any measures to this end. In the field of labour market policy, the government wants to take a closer look at the various instruments of active labour market policy, labour market promotion, but only one fifth of the labour market budget. But what one ignores completely is the passive performance. As unemployment benefit and emergency aid, as well as the corresponding pension contributions, amount to €5.5 billion – without any control effect! All training measures, and so on, can only have an effect, even if unemployment benefit and emergency aid have a control effect. But that's not because the stuff's being paid out linearly. We are producing long-term unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] You see this also in the development of the numbers in emergency aid, which many people refer to 10, 15, 20 years without anything moving. This seems to be the case with pension expenditure – it seems so! – as if there were a short break-up, because one has turned on different wheels of cross-financing, because billing systems have been changed, but this does not change anything about structurally increasing pensions, which are the most dynamic factor in this budget, in the long term, and an increasing proportion of the federal budget is being eaten up by pensions. More than every fourth budget euro flows into pensions. And then you think you still have air for gifts – don't you? Now let's give the pensioner a pity hundred! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] This is what you are doing, because, of course, Mr Neubauer can go to the main table just like all the red colleagues and all the black colleagues, and they can say: [[Abg. New builder: I never go to the main table!]] I got you a hundred! The fact that the young people have to pay for it – in addition to the debt mountain that you have already left them – is yours. This is merciless client policy at the expense of the boys. And They don't even generate for it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. New builder: Today at the expense of the old!]] The pension system is not only more and less eligible for funding, but also less and less for the individual. You can read from the data of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which are already beautiful, that the replacement rates are constantly going back and that people are getting less and less in order to get their standard of living in old age. But what remains is all the special rights. The Secretary of State has a damp throat about whether the officials are going a little further. We continue to afford special rights and luxury pensions. Today, the staff committee of Casinos Austria AG meets, which is one third owned by the Republic. And Mr. Stoss, Vorarlberger Landsmann, will receive a contract extension with a pension claim up to €550 000 a year. 14 times 39 000 € Pension can still be deducted from Casinos Austria AG. Representatives of the Republic of Austria sit in the Supervisory Board and nod it off. And Mr Rothensteiner – who belongs to this side – nods that too. [[pointing towards ÖVP]] You don't care! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Similarly, health policy presents itself when most of it remains structures that are not about prevention, not about justice, not about the same benefits for the same contributions, but about maintaining your structures. Family benefits are maintained on the basis of debts. The family compensation fund is indebted in addition. And what the citizens have of it is the certainty that this cannot continue. They know for a long time that the system and the Republic are being driven to the wall at high speed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Do They continue to systematically undermine the trust of the population in sustainability and, above all, in justice. None of this will be left permanently.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11059	Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11083	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! On the topic of sale of unmovable federal assets: The Budget Committee dealt with the Government template 1262 of the Supplements concerning the authorisation to divest unmovable federal assets. It should be noted that it was on the agenda both for this government and for the previous government that it was irresponsible to sell a lot of unmovable federal assets. The results of these divestments are well known and do not present a minor problem. The construction of former Minister Darabos and Clug on army properties is still difficult for us today. The sale of properties in relation to new developments or new rents is limited. On the other hand, there are high financial costs for the provision of necessary measures today, not least in connection with the continuing wave of refugees. The family silver must not be sold at any price – that would be shortsighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11119	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11141	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The budgetary veracity or balance sheet truth is the subject of my speech. On Thursday, we will decide on a budget, and it is now a matter of assessing: Are the plans of the Federal Government properly quantified? Is all the information in this budget that we need as an opposition, but also the citizens of Austria? Is it all right? Is this comparable to the previous budgets? – These are all rhetorical questions, because that is not the case in any of these points. The budgetary truth, which is also supposed to be confidence-building, requires considerable resurgence for the Federal Government. This begins with the art code number “structural zero deficit”, which is always spoken of. I would like to stress: The earnings of the four years from 2014 to 2017 are as follows: 2014: minus 9 billion, 2015: minus 4.7 billion, 2016: probably minus 9.3 billion, 2017: budgeted minus 9 billion. So in view of that, speaking of a zero deficit, it's just absurd. It is absurd to speak of a consolidation course in these figures. This is debt making to an extent that is irresponsible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's stick to the budget truth! – Every merchant is obliged to the balance sheet truth, namely to disclose everything completely and properly. In this budget, many things – and that has already been addressed today – have not been included at all. So today we decide on a budget – or we should decide it; we will vote against it by the FPÖ, also for many other reasons – in which many things are not included at all. For example, the increase in the investment premium is not included in this budget. It also does not include the guarantee of training. And it does not precisely quantify expenditure on education either. Nor can we find anything in this budget from the climate protection promises. In addition, there are art structures that are difficult to understand even for a specialist. Overrun powers are called something like that. These things are not found in the budget, they are then simply passed by means of a budget innovation law. This amounted to €2.4 billion for 2016. However, we still do not know whether these €2.4 billion will be spent entirely or not. It is now mentioned that about €1.4 billion will be used up. It's a black box. We do not know whether overrun powers are coming for 2017. You don't know: Come which, come no, and if so, to what extent? Now to the entire area of reserves: As far as the ministries are concerned, the Carrots have been hanged to plan for the long term, and the ministries are now rewarded with the fact that they have built up deposits of €19 billion through economical economies. But now you must not assume that the reserves are available, no, that's really hot air. On the one hand, these reserves have to be approved in detail by the Minister of Finance, and on the other hand – many of us have heard it in the corresponding budget consultations – there are certain things in the budget, and I have always asked: And what else is there about residues? And what reserves are dissolved there? And then there's a lot of information coming, like: So and so many millions of reserves for this purpose and so many millions of reserves for that purpose! It's et cetera, et cetera. But all of this is not in this budget. This is the plan of the individual ministries, but it must be approved by the Minister for Finance. So I can already understand the Ministries that, from the time they wait for planning security, they cannot necessarily say that this would mean great planning security for the Ministries. This is by no means a very good approach from the methodology. Then there is such a construction, namely the commitments to use funds. That is to say, the ministries have budgets, but for individual positions they have to obtain individual approval from the Minister of Finance. There too: Where is planning security? Then I come to a point that has also been raised, namely budgetary truth. For example, the budget service says that in the UG Justice for years, payments as well as disbursements are too low. You know, the numbers are not right. That's where the whole calculator moves in a direction that's absolutely not good. Or: At the UG 14 national defense, you already know that deposits of around €40 million will come but will not be in the budget. - So that's about budget truth. [[Call the FPÖ:Na hello!]] I am not yet talking about the famous corrective account, which has been addressed several times, and I am not talking about the family compensation fund, which was thought many years ago as a reserve fund. I still hear the government that meant a few years ago: Yes, we will fill the family compensation fund again and reduce this deficit that the family compensation fund has. – If you look at the budget and the calculations for 2018, you can see that exactly the opposite is the case. Family spokesperson Anneliese Kitzmüller and I have already pointed out a year ago that this supposed reduction in additional wage costs is due to the family compensation fund. That's exactly what we have now: In 2018, the family compensation fund will again be over-indebted with over €3 billion. This has nothing to do with budget truth. I conclude with the assessment of the budget service, also this one says: It all becomes more complicated, more inconspicuous, and more inextricable. – Mr Federal Minister, just from the craftsman, this budget – in addition to the questions of content – is not a masterpiece.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11186	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11208	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tamandl has asked for facts and figures. Mrs Colleague, facts and figures: According to the draft budget, revenue is in the amount for the year 2017 estimated at approximately € 73.2 billion and expenditure of € 77.5 billion, which corresponds to a deficit of 1.2 percent of GDP by the federal government. In addition, the government intends to achieve the EU-wide structural zero deficit of 0.5% of the gross domestic product. Whether this succeeds, ladies and gentlemen, is in the stars, but it might be a good approach. According to the record value of 85.5% of GDP, government debt is expected to return to 80.9% in 2015 – we hope so. A further reduction to 76.6 percent is planned by 2020. I think that would be correct and necessary. In his budget speech, the Minister of Finance announced that there should be no new taxes, no new debt. Courage for reforms!, he said. Mr Finanzminister, we are implementing the reforms! Finally away with the unnecessary bureaucracy! Today, the cold progression has been mentioned several times. Investing, he said, we have to get where investment is going and where all people benefit from it. According to the Minister of Finance, the focus is on the areas of security, social security, education and research. Mr Finanzminister, I am lacking health, which is also a very important factor. The 2017 budget focuses specifically. Thus, investment is made in both internal and external security. The interior area gets about €440 million more, which is very important. By 2020, the state defense will receive more than € 890 million. This is also very important, since one has previously saved the federal army to death. In the future, labour market policies must also be looked at very carefully, especially how and where the funds are used. Minister! I agree with you that this budget also has good approaches, which is out of question, but what is the budget supposed to say if the total cost to refugees is calculated? These costs are not included in the budget, ladies and gentlemen. These costs are borne by the diligent, decent people in Austria, and that is the wrong way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11256	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11283	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm referring to the Pre-Law Act. I have it here, so that the spectators know what this is: a very short law, three paragraphs, eleven lines. [[Keeping a document in height]] This pre-tax law allows the Minister of Transport, in agreement with the Minister of Finance, to spend unimaginable €42.8 billion. 42.8 billion €! I have had an interesting experience in my political life: In political bodies, there is a great deal of debate when it comes to sums that are well-imaginable for each and every one of us, i.e. orders of a few hundred thousand euros. Everyone knows exactly whether this is too much or too little, whether it's too expensive or whether you can still save there. But if it's about the many million or even about the billions, then it's going to be fast, then it's going to get lost, ready, out. To get you an idea of how much money this is, I brought a first board. [[a table entitled ‘77.5 billion. € Federal expenditure 2017” presupposes the speaker’s seat]] Here you can see the federal budget in 2017, these are €77.5 billion, and in relation to that, the sum of money we release with this small law. Of course, I'm a huge friend of the train. I also think that this money is very well used for the train. The railway is supposed to get money, the railway is the most important electric vehicle of the future, the railway is the backbone of public transport. That's all undisputed. The crucial question, however, is: Is this money what we all expect? – We certainly have a consensus on what we want, namely, first of all by investing in rail as many people as possible, and secondly, we want to trigger as many employment effects as possible. Mr Krainer said how important jobs are. Yeah, I can see that. One can direct investment in such a way that many jobs are created that the regional economy is booming, or one can direct them in such a way that some huge machines in particular work and relatively few jobs are created. [[Abg. Heinzl: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Moser: That's right!]] We Greens want this money to be used as effectively as possible. Here I have a graphic where you can see how this money is spent. [[a table entitled “Fundaments ÖBB 2007 – 2022” on the speaker’s desk]] So far, there have been € 18.8 billion, and from 2017, there will be an additional €15.2 billion of investments in rail, and €8.8 billion will go into ongoing operation. So this is a huge sum of money that we have already spent in part and will still spend in part. Ladies and gentlemen, the last rate is paid back in 2071 when it comes to this law. 2071 are a few of us, like Julian, still alive, but most of us, I anyway, will be lying under the earth for a long time. You decide today with your majority. However, because transparency and perceptibility are missing, whether these amounts are actually used properly, we will not agree with the Greens. Now I'm going to show you a third picture of what you can do. [[a panel with the title “That’s the way it is!”]] I have, of course, looked at the area of the ÖBB Framework Plan particularly in relation to Tyrol. What is the investment of the railway in Tyrol? – There is also the following: From one year to another, the Brenner Base Tunnel will be cheaper by € 108 million, from one year to another. Then I asked Conrad Bergmeister, the chief chief of the Brenner Base Tunnel Society, and he said yes, they have restructured the project, as it means, they have looked at where you can make it cheaper, based on the experience in tunnel construction and so on. And there, from one year to another, there is a minus of € 108 million. So it goes when you're pressured. Interesting now is the other part, something that has not yet been in the ÖBB framework plan in the past year. There are now three projects that are suddenly possible and which trigger precisely that regional added value and bring many people to the train, as we want Greens to do. € 15 million will be invested in new S-Bahn-Halte in Innsbruck, € 26 million in the new Seefeld railway station – there is a ski-WM – and almost € 25 million in Schwaz railway station. Suddenly, the big money is diverted from tunnels into relatively small projects on site, and there you can see what you can do with good will. Mr Finanzminister, I am glad that you are listening: Our approach and our appeal is that we once critically examine the entire ÖBB Framework Plan on the question of how we bring as many people as possible on the track as possible and how we create second value added and as many jobs on the ground as possible. If you do, you'll have us on your side next time.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11356	Mr Steinbichler has spoken a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11391	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Gabriel Obernosterer, for reminding me that I didn't explain the table. Perhaps shortly thereafter to the comments made by Mr Willi: This is a good idea with the Brenner Base Tunnel, which we should actually apply in Upper Austria at the Danube Bridge. If we wait – now we don't have a financing model anyway – and if that gets cheaper every year, it also has something positive, with the terrible exception that the millers are in traffic. You could have rehabilitated a bridge before tearing it away. Back to the table: Mr. Obernosterer, the picture on the table was by Dr. Wallentin. The little ones are hanging and the big ones are running. - That's the fatale. I didn't mention that with the register: After all, this federal government has sent off 500 tax inspectors who pursue these entrepreneurs, milk these entrepreneurs and see that additional revenues come from not implementing structural reforms. This whole story calls for a request to the Minister of Finance, introduced by the Greens, who want to know of an estimated € 1 billion regarding Apple's turnover in Austria, where the taxes are deducted, and of course the Minister rightly says that he cannot provide any information due to the obligation to keep secret. Again in the “Kronen Zeitung” but Dr. Wailand wrote last week about Apple and Co’s tricks: You then transfer to the Apple Organization in Ireland with zero employees, of course you do not pay taxes there either. This is unfair in relation to the domestic, land-based, honest, tax-paying economy, which is being put under pressure to try to achieve even more revenue, and the large corporations are aiming at it. Therefore, the request to the Minister of Finance – and with this I am already at the end of my remarks – is: If the companies already have tax advantages when the companies are already fleeing from taxation, they should then be taken into account in the case of asylum costs, which are horny and rise to the exorbitant. They are, for the most part, the trigger of this economic and climate flight. Estimated 80 percent of refugees who come to us are climate and economic refugees. That is why I think it would be fair for all the finance ministers in Europe to ask the corporations to cash. That would be my approach. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11439	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote, as always, on each committee request. First vote on agenda item 1: Draft budget accompanying law 2017 including title and receipt in 1262 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill gives a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law in third reading gives a sign on this matter. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 2: Draft federal law approving the justification of charges by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, together with the title and receipt in 1292 of the supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill gives a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law in third reading gives a sign on this matter. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. [[11:55:25]] 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1283, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 2016, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 (1337 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1260, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2017 (Federal Finance Act 2017 – BFG 2017) together with investments (1338 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11525	We now come to the points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. [[11:56:05]] UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors UG 10: Federal Chancellery UG 32: Art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11598	We are going into the debate. First speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11622	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For the sub-division of the Supreme Institutions, one has to acknowledge that our system of the highest courts works very well. You also have to take note of this as an opposition and praise it at this point. The Supreme Court – the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court – also works very well in international comparison and also has very satisfactory short procedural periods. You have to acknowledge that. One of the problems facing us in this area is the increasing number of asylum procedures, which now account for a large part of the work of these highest courts. At the administrative court, the number increases by 40 percent and more from quarter to quarter. This leads to the fact that in the future what I have now recognised benevolently will not be sustainable. The Administrative Court is expected to need an increased budget for this reason next year. We see, therefore, that in this area – and this is just a small detail – we do not have the asylum problem under control. If we now act as if we could work out a certain quota every year, with the question of figures being very problematic, then we note that this does not work. There has already been a backlog. We have not managed to complete the figures so far, and we want to do so from 1. Let's start with a new quota again. It doesn't work. We also see what kind of rat cock the government's decision to open the borders for a period of time draws on. The government has opened the borders without any control, it has actually taken up the loss of statehood and has now, afterwards, the biggest problems, because in these procedures of course, incredible effort is to operate and they are almost impossible to solve. So that's a big problem. The same applies to the Federal Administrative Court. To do this, one must also acknowledge: We have all jointly, also on the basis of the FPÖ, asserted that there is an administrative jurisdiction which bears this name properly. That is why there is also the Federal Administrative Court, which is subordinated to the Federal Chancellery. This is a really well-functioning new system, which we have provided for more rule of law in Austria. In this area too, the main problem is that we need to get up there, put a lot of money in it, because we really only have the asylum procedures under control with a huge effort. This puts the taxpayer on a very massive burden. So it is seen that the system alone has to invest a lot of money in this detail area. In reality, we have done a great deal of damage by not having consistently dealt with this issue from the very beginning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, a critical point is the law of the service. In recent years, we have had several novelties of the law of the service, because there is an injustice in the accounting of pre-services. Each time, the government groups presented a novel of civil service law, which then came from the Constitutional Court or has been withdrawn by the ECJ. Then you go back and make another novel, well-knowing that it will not last again – just to win time. That's something you just can't accept. In a rule of law one cannot accept it, and even then cannot, if one goes from the point of view of justice. The Constitutional Court did not bring this to justice, it did not do so because of inequality, and the ECJ also found that there was a disparity between treatment. So this is an unfair system, because certain groups of public servants are on duty before the 18th century. Life-years are not counted, and the government parties are trying to disappear in some way, and that is not to be accepted. As to our question as to whether money is budgeted for this next year so that this right of civil service can be properly approximated, reworded and made fair, we were clearly told: No, there's no money for that! The essential criticism of this sub-division – and therefore we will not agree here either – is that one cannot and does not get through to enforce a fair civil service right here. This is really a shame to the rule of law: to try to interrupt the highest courts and to make pieces again, just to gain time. That is the essential criticism. Otherwise, as has been said, we see that as far as the other top organs are concerned, we are well aware.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11683	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11705	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Dear representatives of the People's Procuratorate! President of the Court of Auditors! To the point of the top organs, I would like to add the following: I believe that it is truly Europe-wide, which sustainability is enshrined in this budget. €5 billion in public investment, which is €800 million more than before in this area, means an expansion of public investment. This will benefit our economy and the labour market, employment. This is sustainability par excellence. € 700 million is spent in education, i.e.: Development of day-to-day schools – this, too, leads to employment. So the state is already doing its homework, and you can't always see everything just against the background of the sparing idea. The State is also obliged if private investment does not flow in such a way as to fulfil its function as an investor. [[Abg. Moser: (a book entitled “The Capital of the State”) We have the right book anyway!]] I am already on the next point, the investment premiums for the municipalities: The communities are essentially one of the largest investors in this country, and it is high time that one supported the communities when they put in place necessary measures for their citizens. The investment package for the companies of € 100 million can also be seen. – So, basically, this is a budget, which is very much committed to sustainability, on initiatives, and it strengthens those initiatives that take place at other levels in that state. I have the task of speaking on the topic of top organs. There has been very visible evidence that both the Administrative Court President and the Constitutional Court President in particular were very satisfied with the solutions offered by the government, namely the Federal Administrative Court, which has proved itself very well, which is now, after two years of activity, already verifiable. We can therefore say that this has proved very, very well, which is also seen by the Presidents of the Supreme Courts. The possibility of a legal complaint at the Constitutional Court has also proved itself to be successful and commensurate. This is not misused, but in the context of what we had planned. In other words, the highest institutions are satisfied with the reforms we have set up. At the Federal Administrative Court, we have at least separated 120 authorities. This has proved successful, it has not become worse, but has become better, and this system has now come into play. I think it should also be said from this point of view that the reforms that have taken place in the media have not necessarily found the public they should have found to have had a very positive impact on this state and on the administration of that state. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Moser:... Court of Auditors!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Therefore, nothing is added to this, and if we now know that refugees are coming and the Secretary of State is opposed to the prospect that we have already appointed 40 judges to the Federal Administrative Court this year and will also appoint 120 judges, then this is an answer, which is also referring to problems that arise again, and trying to solve them – instead of feeling sick, as my previous speaker did.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11775	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11796	Mr President. Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Mr State Secretary! Dear representatives of the People's Procuratorate! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, although the government bank is sparsely occupied, important top institutions still have a special meaning in Parliament today. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Doppler.]] Mr Wittmann. If, at last, we could have implemented the reforms that we implemented at the Constitutional Court, at the Administrative Court, even in the Court of Auditors, then we would have saved billions and then we would have a completely different budget. That's why I'm just saying it in the first place, because: If the Court had been able to examine the undertakings in which the public hand is involved with 25.1 percent, the hypo-alpe-Adria-debakel could not have taken place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayer.]] – No, to that extent, certainly not! 17 billion € down the stream! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Mayer.]] With the Court of Auditors' audit competence, we could have pulled the lines earlier. [[Abg. Mayer: That's exactly what they slept...!]] Look You are familiar with the Court of Auditors' report, my colleague. [[Abg. Mayer: There is no law against this glamour!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] In Carinthia, a different system would have been able to take place long ago if the Court of Auditors had been able to examine it in good time. – This is a first finding. [[Abg. Mayer: He slept! That's wrong!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Secondly, to the budget for the highest institutions in the court area or in the field of public prosecutors. By the way, I would also like to thank the public prosecutors for their care and commitment, which is precisely what the concerns of individual people in Austria are; that is not a matter of course. Many are victims of administrative abuses, and the People's Procuratorate is very excited at the work – so thank you and your employees too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] The same is true of thanks to Parliament's staff, for Parliament is also a supreme body. The budget for this area will be the same for Greens as for the People's Procuratorate or for the Supreme Courts. However, at the Court of Auditors we have a reduction care for years. You yourself, Mr Mayer, have said this with regret in the Committee, I say now. Unfortunately, it has remained until now. [[Abg. Mayer: That's right!]] It is now at last necessary to use the lever, because we have to deal responsibly with the taxpayers' money. As a Parliament, we have an instrument, an institution, that is, the Court of Auditors. This is a kind of auditor, which is also a kind of consultant, one can say, who sees how the administration can be improved. There are numerous proposals and recommendations which are unfortunately not implemented, for example the proposal to examine companies in which the Republic is involved by 25.1 percent. The Court's budget increased by only 4 percent between 2009 and 2016 at an inflation rate of 15 percent in total; that is, when we look at the budget development, the Court of Auditors is nighting for hunger. This, as it were, systematic hunger of the Court of Auditors, this almost generally planned hunger of the Republic's control body has system – unfortunately, it has system! One does not like it if one is looked at one's finger, one does not love it if one is repeatedly asked by the Court of Auditors for reforms that seem unpleasant to one. The result is that the Court of Auditors only receives €20 000 more compared to the previous year. He needed 36 million € in himself to do his work properly, he gets almost 32 million €, I think, not quite 32 million €. There's a gap. A gap is also found where it is about using officials as on-the-spot examiners. Plans are planned: 2011: 328; occupied are 278 – 50 plant sites are not occupied, 50 testers are not at work. If you're going to convert this: Each examiner, each examiner, brings about five to ten times its salary costs through efficiency measures. . As a result, the Republic, by substituting the Court of Auditors, abandons an annual amount of at least three-digit million. I am not talking about the other measures proposed by the Court of Auditors again and again, because we would save more than a three-digit million, which we could reasonably invest elsewhere. I am always concerned with meaningful reforms, and I am glad that colleagues in the Court of Auditors in the background – hopefully – are already working on implementing these reforms – we have a wonderful list. We need both a personal and a financially well-equipped Court of Auditors, we need a dedicated audit team, and we need, above all, a majority in this Parliament who want to implement the Court of Auditors' proposals after political weighting, as we would have saved the Eurofighters, since we would have saved ourselves most of the hypo-alpe-Adria debacle, since we would have saved ourselves some other sluggish action, since we would no longer have double-tracks in the field of education or in some cases also in the health sector, which would always cost us money that should actually come to people. That is why I hope that some changes will be made at least next year; I believe that this year you have already decided more or less to make this budget of hunger valid for the Court of Auditors through a vote. This is, of course, very unpleasant to me, but, my goodness, perhaps the majority will change. We will work for people, with intensive control work, to deal responsibly with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11916	Mr Mag. Gerstl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11938	Mr President. Dear People's Lawyers! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies, gentlemen on the government! The Federal Chancellor's Office is the topic we are now discussing. I would like to focus on two areas: Parliament and our legal protection system. I'll start with Parliament. The separation of violence requires a strong Parliament, and therefore we in Parliament have also undertaken to strengthen two main points: transparency in the legislative process on the one hand and participation by the population and by experts on the other. Therefore, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have made the following decisions in the next few months in order to strengthen Parliament's direct democracy: firstly, greater involvement of citizens in a consultation procedure, particularly through the Parliament's homepage; secondly, direct access to the legal and legislative service for all Members of Parliament, similar to the budget service, which would bring a great benefit to parliamentary work; thirdly, that the committee members and their alternates should be given corresponding staff and strengthened the expert committees so that we can also carry out public committee meetings more transparently outside the committee; fourthly, a personal Parliament TV – for which we can actually offer everything we can offer to all channels, which I believe should be implemented quickly – and fifthly: to have a live stream on public committee meetings. These are also points that can ensure greater transparency. [[Abg. Brosz: Who pays?]] This allows me to come to the second area, which is important to me: Mr Stefan has already pointed out the good legal protection system that we have in Austria, he has also mentioned a few figures, and I would therefore also like to consider whether the legal protection system sometimes does not fall above the target. Mr Stefan has mentioned a few figures, and I would like to stress them once again: If our Federal Administrative Court, which has been properly and well established in the course of the administrative judicial reform, receives a third more budget for next year, because the numbers of attacks are so high, if it is so, as the President of the Constitutional Court has told us in the Committee's deliberations, that probably already 50 percent or just more of all cases come from the Constitutional Court and that this share in the Federal Administrative Court is a lot higher – probably two-thirds, if not almost three-quarters – if the Administrative Court President has spoken of it as probably still doing so next next year, but for the next year he cannot say whether it is going to take place, then I would like to ask the question whether all the procedures pending are really a need for legal protection for those concerned, namely concrete reasons which are necessary to secure their claim to public places, or whether there are often other interests in the foreground, namely the delay in the procedure to create more factuality than clarity. I would like to share this with all of us on all the points that we still want to decide on legal protection here, so that we can continue to maintain our system of action and not bring jurisdiction to a failure to act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11974	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e11996	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear People's Lawyers! President of the Court of Auditors! Yes, we are discussing the top organs, and these are, as we all know, the cornerstones of our democracy. Whenever we save on these fundamental pillars of democracy, we need to know that we are saving in democracy itself. Mrs Moser has already made it very clear in connection with the Court of Auditors. As regards the highest courts: At the Constitutional and Administrative Court this year, it is going to be as we have heard in the Budget Committee. Last year the situation was different, as both Presidents are actually daily eating and said they don't know how long they can still finance it. Fortunately, this year has not been the case, despite the fact that, in particular, these two courts have repeatedly bowed to budgetary savings, they have repeatedly shown how to make more economical economies, how to implement efficiency-enhancing measures, and how to achieve high-quality work, even though we have given them more and more additional tasks, be it the legislative complaint, whether it be in connection with the Parliamentary Investigation Committee. We know it is going to take place this year, but we have heard – Mr Gerstl has already mentioned it – from the Administrative Court, then probably not again next year, we will have to make budget funds available; and the Constitutional Court has said that it will then become scarce or bad in 2019. I would like to add the following: I find it quite difficult that every year we are having a discussion about whether we are providing basic pillars of democracy with sufficient financial resources. I believe that we must always be clear that this is our obligation and that we must not go beyond the bow. A word about federal legislation: Mr Gerstl has mentioned a lot of things which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has discussed in the Committee on Culture, Consumer Protection and Consumer Protection. The report was also adopted. The problem is that it is not yet in this budget. I'm glad to do all of this. We all know that we have not yet implemented anything, although the majority report has been very, very long. And we also know that when we use the German Bundestag and the European Parliament for comparison, we make very little money available. If we look at the German Bundestag and the European Parliament in comparison, we will see what living, self-confident parliamentarianism is, and this also requires the appropriate means, and we should make much more money available here in the Austrian Parliament in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12041	Now Mrs. State Secretary Mag. Duzdar. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12062	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today I am allowed to talk about the budget of the Federal Chancellery – Division 10. We estimated a budget of € 457.2 million for 2017. This means an increase of €55 million compared to the previous year. This increase is due to the following: On the one hand – it has also been addressed – we have greatly increased staff at the Federal Administrative Court, i.e. we have expanded the staff status. We have added approximately 120 employees, of which 40 judges, because we see that the number of procedures has increased, and because we also have a great interest in speeding up the procedures. It's good that we increase and expand staff in the public service. Secondly, we have made an index adjustment in the field of culture. We have budgeted this at €700. Thirdly, in the past years, the Federal Chancellor's Office has been underbought and the current operation has been financed from the reserves. This will now be put to an end. We estimated a budget of € 18.3 million. An essential item is the shift in the budget for digitalisation of €20 million from the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure to the Federal Chancellery, and I would like to speak about it as the State Secretary for Digitalization. A significant part of this €20 million is in the AT:net funding programme. This is a programme aimed at promoting innovative digital companies when they are at a critical stage in helping them to reach market maturity. We realize how much digitization flows through all social areas, and it is also important for us from politics not to be overrun, but to actively participate in digitization as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At:net is not only about start-ups – you know, ladies and gentlemen, that we also have our own start-up package for the start-ups, which is about concrete improvements – but also about conventional companies. A carpenter, for example, who wants to work out his designs digitally, can also be promoted in the future. The focus is on SMEs, and this is very successful. 90 percent of submissions are carried out by SMEs. In the third call, which took place from August to October, about 90 percent of submissions from SMEs, but also an increasing number of more than 40 percent, compared to the first call, were to be noted. It is, as has been said, about supporting companies at a critical stage in bringing creative ideas to the market. We focus on open-source technology. This means that we want to make a small but very important contribution to alternative invention to the global monopoly in the IT market, and thus of course we also support regional value creation. A second major digital project, which is about EUR 1 million, is mobile learning. For me, as the State Secretary for Digital Affairs, closing the digital divide in Austria is a very central concern; even in a country like Austria, 17 percent of households still have no Internet access. We are of course also very strong in the field of education. I work very well with the Minister for Education Sonja Hammerschmid. We distribute thousands of tablets free of charge to the various schools. Not only is it about children and students having a tablet in their hands, but it is behind it as a general pedagogical concept that an expert school cooperates with two elementary schools, which of course also exchange and pass on experiences. Of course, we also attach great importance to the fact that in the course of this project there are also training measures and also workshops on safe behaviour on the Internet for the pedagogists. Of course, there are also a number of smaller digital projects. I would like to highlight the Digital Roadmap. I, together with Mr. State Secretary Mahrer, coordinate the Federal Government's overall digital strategy. There are, of course, digital agendas in various ministries, but it is about creating a roof over the many partial strategies in the digital field. We have drawn up this overall strategy in a broad process involving the social partners, countries, the Municipal Federation and the Municipal Government. There was a wide-ranging online consultation involving, above all, civil society. At the end of this year we will present this overall strategy, and it will then be evaluated annually, because of course we also want to remain digital on the ball. To the staff plan maybe a few words: You know that in 2014 the reception stop in the Federal Service expired and we passed from a stop to a more restrictive reception policy. This means that basically every second job is re-occupied by retirement. It is important to strengthen public administration because we also want to have efficient administration. However, there have already been derogations for certain areas during the time of the start-up stop, for example in the field of executives and also in the field of education. In 2016 we were able to notice 3 505 additional planning sites, and that's not little, that's basically a lot. The largest shares were the executive, the administration and also the financial management. We have continued this path for the year 2017 and once again provided additional planning sites, namely 1 258. This number can also be seen! There are now 138 535 planning posts in the Federal Service. Of the 1 258 posts I mentioned, 650 have been provided for the executive – 650 more for the executive in 2017 – 250 more for the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, and, of course, the increasing number of students also means a higher need for teachers is increased in this area of staff be. There are 355 teachers more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12138	Next word: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12159	Of course, it is also about the pillars of democracy, and we have also discussed the media promotion and any fees for the ORF in recent days, which is why: In the mission “In the Center” to the American elections, a “profile” journalist said that the elections showed how important public-law media are – and independent. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Independently!]] This is a command that journalists who work there are trying to fulfill even to the best of their knowledge and conscience. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We should consider this in the light of the fact that a debate was held with us, in which one said press promotion could be involved instead of the fees involved in the financing of the ORF. Others said that decisions on any increase in fees should be taken in Parliament's main committee. – Just so we know about what we're talking about: It is true that the real challenge in Austria as well as in other countries of Facebook, from Google et cetera, comes from these multinational institutions, which, of course, often avoid tax evading very opaque, at least very powerful very much in revenue. This should motivate the Austrian media to work together. The second is that advertising revenue has almost exploded into an increase in advertising revenue from the German advertising windows. They now amount to € 567 million per year, the ORF is currently succesing € 284 million with a declining trend. The revenue of the ORF has declined, the inflation rate has increased. On the revenue side alone, the ORF has a minus of 20 percent. It has remained that, due to social circumstances, there are reliefs for around 300 000 ORF listeners, and that means a loss of revenue of €60 million. And this, please, given the fact that the rights are becoming increasingly expensive, that of course a programme maintenance is also to be fulfilled and that there is a competitive situation with other channels too! Today, some can receive up to 1 000, 2,000 channels, or more. This is a real competition which is not comparable to earlier ones, and I believe this is justified, already the discussion. Just to know the order of magnitude we're talking about: On average, the ORF receives about € 16 to 17 per capita per month, i.e. two thirds of the fees taken, and a third goes, in different sizes, to countries, to cultural institutions and also in taxes and whatever. Now we discuss about 1 € to 1.5 € more per head per month for the ORF. It is about 1 € to 1.5 € more per head per month for the ORF. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that the principle discussion is justified if one asks whether a public-law company should contribute to the preservation of Austrian cultural identity and independence to international corporations and media in the future, and now I look very deeply at the FPÖ; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] You should jump slowly now, if I say so to you now, and start to rejoice slowly – and it may therefore be useful to support the existence of the ORF.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12227	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12248	Mr President. Appreciate members on the government bank! Dear Members of the People's Procuratorate! President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer in my statement to the budget of the public prosecutor and the Court of Auditors because there are many parallels there. Both organs work very sparingly, work efficiently, have to rely on reserves, unfortunately have no planning certainty for the future and also have to fight with personnel distress. Some previous speakers have also mentioned this, Mrs Moser, for example, in the field of the Court of Auditors. We are discussing these shortcomings, this circumcision of these two institutions, when it comes to the budget, not for the first time, but very often. We also had the same situation during the negotiations on the last budget, which was also the last budget of the former President of the Court of Auditors, Moser, and unfortunately nothing has changed so far. While there is now a commitment from the Ministry of Finance to make available €700, as the President of the Court of Auditors of the Committee has also stated, there are no guarantees and no commitments. That, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to look at and speak critically, because the Court of Auditors is concerned about the taxpayer's money! The Court of Auditors, with its reports, ensures the control here in the House, provides us with documents which enable us to carry out the control so that the means of taxation can be used accordingly and where they are to arrive. Unfortunately, this activity is not taken into account by this budget or by the Court of Auditors in terms of budget resources. Unfortunately, another chance has been missed to finally make nails with heads. The Committee, as well as the representatives of the government groups, is constantly heard, speaks differently than is done and voted here. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is very bad, I really don't understand! This is also not understood by taxpayers, because in other areas, refugee problems, little is seen about how much money is shifted to where, how much money is spent. However, this is not possible for this small part – as far as the public prosecutor's office and the Court of Auditors are concerned. There, I must say, ladies and gentlemen, my understanding ends! I would also like to support the demands of the Public Prosecutor's Office – and we have also debated these budgets in the Committee. Dr. Fichtenbauer represented the lawyers in the committee and once again informed us of his demands regarding the additional three planning points. Of course, we support these demands as well as the withdrawal of reserves from 2019, which is no longer provided in this budget. He has also informed us that after the decline in 2015, there will again be an increase in the number of complaints, by 16 percent by the end of October, ladies and gentlemen! This also shows how important the public prosecutorship is, how important it is to set up the public prosecutorry. Any citizen may contact the prosecutors, And that, ladies and gentlemen, must also be worth something to us! There must be planning certainty that the financial security must be guaranteed – over years and not just in the short term. The Court of Auditors' special tasks in order to return to the Court of Auditors bind resources, so there is a risk that the Court of Auditors' core tasks will no longer be fully fulfilled. Due to special tasks – we know, we do not discuss this for the first time, media transparency and party law – the Court of Auditors is entrusted with administrative tasks, although it can only give the test stamp and not really examine it, cannot go into the depths. On the other hand, this again binds resources needed for the real core tasks of the Court of Auditors. The President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has also answered a question on this subject in committee. This €500 000, which can be done through the special tasks, would allow for four to five additional tests a year, and we would also need these tests. We are negotiating what the special tasks are, whether there are any changes, as I did in my last speech. It is very much to do, but it is only a pity that both institutions – the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors – have no planning certainty due to the budgets, and I am very sorry about that. Finally, I would like to thank the House's budget for its excellent documents, for the accompanying budget documents, which I believe no one has done today, because there is a great deal of information to be learned from them. I would like to thank you very much for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12300	Next word: Mrs Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12321	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mrs. Volksanwaltin Gertrude Brinek! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Listeners at the gallery are not very many, so those who are still here are particularly welcome! I would like to say something about the cultural budget of the UG 32. The Minister of Art and Culture has € 13.1 million more available than in the previous year, but manage a museum less. Of course, I deeply regret that the Museum in the Himmelpfortgasse is no longer the Belvedere, as we decided in the context of the previous item on the agenda, but I voted for it because it is of course legitimate for the Ministry of Finance to play these magnificences – the Gold Cabinet, the Battle Hall, the gold-plated, very attractive spaces – themselves, they belong to the Ministry of Finance in the Himmelpfortgasse. However, among other things, these areas will continue to be made available to the public for representative purposes, such as events held by the Ministry of Finance, in particular with the EU Presidency. I regret that it is no longer a museum, because the Damien-Hirst exhibition had to be cancelled in 2018. This was one of the big exhibitions, for example, in the Tate Modern in London, and it could have been shown in Vienna. It is very unfortunate to leave that up, but it is gratifying that the arts and culture area for the basic fee, for the security of Leopold Museums, for the National Library, which will also organise the anniversary exhibition at the House of History, has € 13 million more available. I would also like to express my opinion today on how the objectives of action in the arts and culture budget are defined. There is a lot of talk about figures in the budget debates, but the tensions are the objectives of action. Each department shall specify the objectives of spending the money, how to measure it and what measures it intends to take. The objective of action 1 is to achieve equality, i.e. to take particular care of equal treatment for women and men in the arts and culture sector. The aim is to: “Sustainable anchoring of contemporary art in society and ensuring stable framework conditions for artists”. This is made possible by strengthening the proportion of women, providing start-up scholarships, supporting the mobility of artists – we therefore finance scholarships abroad – and especially with regard to the Austrian film: Strengthen the international distribution of Austrian films and participate in international programmes. The objective of action 2 is to “guarante state cultural institutions” – and for this there is also much more budget – to “support the same in fulfilling their tasks, securing cultural heritage and ensuring broad access to art and cultural goods for the public” – not only in Vienna, but throughout Austria. I would like to thank the Minister and the arts and culture section, which is very careful The funds are carefully spent throughout Austria and not only for the Vienna institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12366	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12388	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Estimated Volksanwälte! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Before I deal with the Court of Auditors as a real issue, I would like to make a brief turn to Mr Cap, who, for his supposedly independent party sender, once again made advertising of fees. I have to say quite honestly: I don't even want to pay a cent for what is delivered by the ORF – you can forget the program, and the content with its control from a political point of view anyway! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's an incredible thing that's being charged by you to the fee and tax payer with this party sender! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I would like to tell you this quite honestly and independently. [[Abg. Heinzl: He was good!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Austrian Rotfunk!]] Now on the subject of the Court of Auditors: Mr Moser has already referred to it, the Court of Auditors is actually the only administrative body in Austria, which would actually expect itself properly when it implements its recommendations. The fact is that the difficult implementation that exists in Austria could use a bit of a drive that we could and should have initiated here in Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Mr Moser, you have, I believe, confused one thing in your speech: the planning points with the full employment equivalents. You spoke of 50 unoccupied planning groups – that is not quite true, because the 278 are full employment equivalents, and the others, 323, are the plan posts, so it is not quite the result. [[Abg. Moser: That's a difference!]] It would be very nice if we could say that almost a sixth is too few people, but in that case not quite. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Moser and Mr Hakel.]] But let's stick to the matter: Madam President, the Committee has said that it would like to increase the 278 full employment equivalents to 290 in the near future. It would, of course, be an objective and, in so far as it is reasonable, because this increased staff level would result in up to ten priority tests and up to three complex cross-sectional tests per year. This would, of course, be a positive for the Republic itself – but also for us – and only the fact is that the current budget, which is available, will not go away. All of us are to blame for the fact that the Court of Auditors is currently very limited in its audit activity, because, here in the National Council, the laws that have led to a massive administrative burden on the Court of Auditors itself are the media transparency law and the party law. Now I insist on it again and say this also in the direction of the coalition parties: We were promised that you would have a conversation within your coalition, what you could do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] We said: Okay, let's wait for this! The wait is a bit long now, so maybe we could press it a little at the pace, dear colleague Mayer? I can at least remember with you that you want to move something too. I hope that will show up in the next few weeks, too, I would be really pleased. I would also like to say something about the objectives of action. The Court of Auditors has set four objectives of action, one of which is transparency, namely transparency towards the public. On the one hand, this is about press releases, about the media, on the other hand about the Internet presence. For me, it would be quite exciting if this website were to be designed in such a way that the simple citizen can quickly see what the effects of such an examination are. This would have to be presented in a simple way if, for example, we wanted to illustrate: Saving potential so much. Perhaps two or three other things to do, two, three parameters, however, but that would be interesting, and the citizen would have an overview right away. At the moment you have to read through a lot of professional Chinese, I have to say. This may not necessarily be what we call transparency now, although all reports are available. It would be a simple design to see what it's all about right now. The second issue we have discussed is the proportion of recommendations implemented, which were first removed from the objectives of action. You have said, Madam President, that the follow-up procedure is now only different, namely that the audited company not only says how many recommendations have been implemented, but you are also examining it again. In principle, I think this makes absolutely sense, but only hope that this will not fail again in the budget. If the Court of Auditors examines how much has actually been implemented, I believe it can be trusted. In this sense, I wish you and your team all the best, look forward to further cooperation and hope that if you need anything, you will come to us as well. We always have an open ear to your concerns in the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12501	The next item is Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12522	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! An open concept of art and culture promotes the understanding and experience of the world as well as respect for others and is part of a mutual understanding and bridge for integration. Art and culture knows no boundaries, art and culture enables participation in social processes and emphasizes the individual's personal responsibility, regardless of social, religious or ethnic origin. Art and culture is part of Austrian self-understanding and also an important economic factor, and of course the framework conditions for artistic and cultural work need to be continuously secured and improved. I am therefore pleased that the cultural budget has been increased by € 13.1 million. In addition to ensuring the sound financing of the large institutions, this will be the key word: Federal Theatre – and the financing of museums finally also increases the financial resources for the smaller institutions and the free groups. The creation of a White Paper on the restructuring of the Federal Museums, commissioned by the Federal Minister, is just another necessary step in the right direction. An important part of the budget is the increase in scholarships, the expansion of workshop work and the increase of prizes. This is a gratifyingly clear strengthening of contemporary art and a measure which, of course, comes one by one with the artists and thus also contributes to the social protection of the artists. The increase in budgetary resources for the protection of monuments also ensures the protection of the cultural heritage. The international mobility of artists is no longer to be thought away from today's art scene, so a focus in the field of performing art and music is set. This also leads me to the music: Austria is a country with great musical tradition, which we are rightly proud of, but apart from the established institutions – such as the state opera or sound bodies such as the Vienna symphonics or festivals such as the Bregenzer Festival, which are well promoted – there is a greater need for financial attention, especially in the field of pop, jazz and contemporary e-music. I would like to thank the Federal Minister, who has taken up my request and who is now looking closely at the promotion of these musical styles, who is having talks with the various stakeholders from the music industry and who will work with them, how to make the Austrian Music Fund better financially, but above all also explain what further measures are needed in this area in order to better support the Austrian contemporary music industry. All this also takes account of the equality objective, i.e. equality between women and men, which has not yet been achieved in all areas. By the way, this need for gender equality has also been particularly important to me in the film industry last year, where, after numerous rounds of negotiations, it has ultimately succeeded in reaching a solution together, so that the balance in film promotion can be created – in the direction of equality between women and men. One important point I would like to conclude by mentioning because it is also part of the area of financing art and culture is copyright. We decided a copyright novel a year and a half ago, almost two years ago. I have already said that this novelle can only be an intermediate step for me, and many points, such as a successor to the Cessio legis, i.e. a copyright law, are clearly missing in this novel. I would like to ask you: Let us take up this issue together in Parliament and continue to negotiate here!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12568	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12589	Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter of the Federal Chancellery also includes data protection. The fact that data protection issues are becoming increasingly central can be seen with some attention to the public debate. There is no day when data leaks, data theft, data loss or illegal data applications are not mentioned. Data protection is one of the key security issues of the future, so I am always at the heart of the budget chapter to see whether the funds for the data protection authority and therefore for the official data protection are sufficient. I've been questioning this for several years, and so have I. Since the Data Protection Authority is a distributed authority, a non-profit-making administrative authority, this is directly not always apparent from the budget. I have always asked exactly how many budget resources the data protection authority has available. I was surprised by the answer. The answer to this question was: “In view of the numerous financial positions, a detailed presentation will be excluded for administrative economic reasons.” – I say to you, Minister: As a Member of this House, I cannot afford to do so. This question has been answered in 2013, answered in 2014, answered in 2015 and answered in 2016 – and for the year 2017 it is suddenly no longer possible for administrative economic reasons to break down which budget items are available to the data protection authority. This is an unacceptable procedure, which is due to a single reason, namely the concealment that the data protection authority is chronically under-dated and that its tasks can no longer be fulfilled for a long time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, let us go into detail: One of the most important tasks of the data protection authority is – and this now sounds very bulky – the general control procedure. What's that about? – It is about the fact that the data protection authority can, on its own initiative, verify whether sensitive data applications – always related to data security, health data, customer data or, for example, credit information data, highly sensitive data – allow data to be stored or the necessary data security is provided. That is to say, the centrepiece of data protection is this far-reaching control procedure, and in order to carry out an official control procedure, it takes technicians to check these data applications. The problem of the data protection authority is that lawyers are active there and not technicians. This means that the employees of the data protection authority cannot actually carry out this review. This is basically not a problem, because you can buy this know-how. You can use the respective technician you need to use such a data application. to review, externally employ, and therefore it is so important to know what means are available to the data protection authority. I asked this question – I have already told you – in 2014, 2015 and 2016, and there was the information: For the review of data applications, external services are purchased and in 2014 and 2015 each budgeted €1,000 and € 2 000 in 2016. Everyone who has once employed an expert knows – and that has nothing to do with the difficult issue of IT – that no experts are given €2,000. The disclosure of these figures made clear: In the field of the general control procedure, it cannot in fact be possible for technicians to be employed to carry out these sensitive checks. I criticized this every year. Now one might think that a reaction is, one increases the budget resources for it, or the other response is – and that is the reaction that you have obviously chosen –, one no longer discloses the data, how much the authority is available to do to avoid this blamage and to cover up that the authority in this area can no longer fulfil its tasks. If it is then still argued that it is not a problem that the money is not enough for this important task, because one would have had only one case in the last two years, where a technician had to be employed, because a data application was checked, then it becomes bizarre. There is no money, that is why these checks are not available, and one argues afterwards, one does not need money, because one has already purchased external technicians in the last two years only in one case. Ladies and gentlemen, this is negligent, and if the data protection authority were the building police, I would be concerned about the security of the Austrian buildings and therefore about the security of the citizens. I am concerned, however, because I am concerned about the data of the citizens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is unacceptable. That's a control mistake that's been eliminated. The solution is not to cover up the problem, but the solution is to budget the data protection authority sufficiently in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12662	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12684	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, the People's Procuratorate, the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With the 2017 budget, debt continues to decline, re-indebtedness is reduced by 30 percent compared to the previous year, and for the third time there will be a structural zero deficit. It is also important that, with 2017, there is the so-called debt brake to increase budget discipline. If we follow today's debate, we see, of course, there are many wishes and demands – they are quite legitimate, but I think we have to look at reality again and again. We have a greater share of social expenditure, and every second euro will be invested in the social system. We have increased pension subsidies, €8.6 billion for the labour market, but also for the ÖBB, €5 billion will be invested. Today, however, we are also dealing with the Court of Auditors chapter: It is also invested in the control of the State. Mrs Moser, the Court of Auditors does not have a hunger budget, but the Court of Auditors has a tight, but still stable budget, which ensures that the Court of Auditors' duties are absolutely guaranteed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] To this end, reserves are dissolved, it is known that we had reserves at the Court of Auditors by 2013, and these are now gradually dissolved. Thanks to Federal Minister Schelling, it was also possible that we invest €700 000 from the reserves for IT and data security. [[New call of the abg. Moser.]] I am far more concerned about the Court of Auditors' work on this subject, and I have experienced very much that our Madam President has put forward proposals here to improve and optimise the Court of Auditors' work. The rewording of the objectives will give rise to a number of innovations in the Court of Auditors, particularly with regard to the consultation in the examinations of events. It is about, I think, that we are also consistently implementing the necessary reforms. The second area is the whole communication. The President has already told us all here that every three years it will consult all Members of the Court of Auditors, not just those who are members of the Court of Auditors, on the satisfaction of the Court of Auditors' work. The first questionnaire is already available. Thank you, Madam President. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What is very important to me is the issue of raw reports, since it has always been, I say, a sobbing. In the future, the opinion period will be reduced from 12 weeks to six weeks. This is already happening in the national accounting authorities at the moment, so this should be possible in the federal government. There will also be more follow-up tests in the future. So far, there's been 20. The aim, according to the President-in-Office, is: In the future, there will be 26 so-called follow-up tests. These are intended to increase the already pleasing implementation rate. I think it should be possible to improve the implementation rate over and over again. Mrs Moser, because you have stressed here that all of this could have been prevented at Hypo Alpe-Adria: Why didn't the cooperation work? – It is important that the cooperation of the different control bodies works in order to improve the effectiveness of the Court of Auditors’ work. Overall, this Court of Auditors budget is a stable budget that allows the reliable work of the Austrian Court of Auditors to be maintained to ensure the quality of control. I think it is absolutely important that we keep adapting to new things and challenges. Finally, I would like to thank you. The Austrian Court of Auditors – which should also be mentioned in this House – has quite high standards in international comparison, does good work and so it should remain in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12754	Next item is the report by Mr Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12775	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In 2017, the budget for art and culture will be increased by €13 million to €445 million. The increase benefits various institutions, such as the Bundesmuseen, the Austrian National Library and the Leopold Museum. In the latter case, the increase in subsidies of approximately € 1 million last year is not quite understandable, because it was originally assured that the Leopold Museum can be obtained through the private foundation itself. In the last three years, however, the annual subsidy has increased from € 2.7 million to € 4.3 million. It is also questionable for taxpayers to be accompanied by the budget accompanying law, namely the return of the winter palace to the Ministry of Finance. The renovation of the winter palace was estimated at €70 million and finally cost the double. According to the Court of Auditors, the additional costs were caused by the project changes during the construction phase and by the subsequent adaptation requests of the Ministry of Finance to make the property useful as a museum. After a few years of use as a museum, the Ministry of Finance is now demanding the winter palace back, without it being somehow clear how the Ministry intends to use the pruning in the future. The cost-intensive museum adaptation thus appears inefficient in two ways. In order not only to criticise the budget, I would also like to mention something positive: We expressly welcome the increase in the budget in contemporary art – which we have also called for in recent years. One point that is important to me and which I would like to draw attention to is that which is missing in the budget: the announced increase in press promotion, which obviously does not come next year, would certainly be of some urgency. We are currently experiencing a massive change in the media, and the media usage behaviour has changed fundamentally by digitization. There is a fragmentation of the media landscape and the withdrawal of the mass media public. Jeff Jarvis calls this quite true as the end of the Gutenberg paranthesis. A follow-up to this development is of course also the preparatory reporting and opinion-making in the run-up to election results, as we have seen them at Donald Trump and the Brexit. Journalistic content is in the background, and a media promotion New, a new form of press promotion, would naturally need to set up exactly there to promote these journalistic content, regardless of the channels of distribution. I'm with Minister Drozda, too. However, for this democratically important task, it is not enough – as proposed by the Minister – to triple the funding, but it is also necessary to integrate the ORF, especially in Austria. The ORF has to face reality! In this regard, our criticism is also very different from the criticism of the FPÖ, for example, which says only: No, we don't like the program, I don't want to pay for it! – No, our criticism is going a bit further. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Kitzmüller.]] The ORF has an ex-monopolistic infrastructure and sees itself as a full-cassero-supplier. In addition to Public Value, everything is purchased to keep the fee payers at mood. For example, see this listing in the weekend newspaper “The Standard”. [[Keeping a newspaper high]] No Austrian production is applied here – and it always means that Austrian film promotion is so important, and part of the ORF budget goes in there too – no, here a Hollywood film is applied! I have certainly made it unknown what it is about, so that I do not make any sluggish advertising here, but with Panem and Circenses it cannot continue! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak]] Mr Cap, if you think that there will only be an increase of a few euros per person or per person per fee, I would like to point out that revenue from the program fees has increased without any increase in fees, simply because the population has increased. That is, we have a situation that could be described with: ‘There’s blood on the windows and ice on the sheets’. The question is: What to do here? – “Ice on the sheets”, Marc Heal, you must have recognized that. [[Abg. Honey: What? Ice on...?]] The Minister has certainly recognized it, which is culturally a little different. [[Rejoicing and condolences with Members of the NEOS.]] What do you have to do about ORF? – The ORF must be converted into a public-value media house, more content with public-law added value and more modern ways of spreading it. Secondly, The funding is to be made out of the budget, without compulsory fees – gisabschrecken.at – and through a accompanying body reform, the party political influence is minimized in this media house. We should put the ORF in such a way that it is still relevant in the next few years, because if it continues to do so, it will lose exactly this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12835	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12856	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! After this exciting discussion on art, culture and the media, I have to come back to the Court of Auditors' downfalls. [[Abg. Beautiful: But maybe you know what “ice on the sheets” is!]] I understand that if I sat on the opposition bench, I would also say: This is being starved, and the Court of Auditors' budget is cut short. That's not the way it is, you have to go back to what it is. I go, as often as I can, with my competent secretary in the Court of Auditors, to discuss with the officials the individual test reports and test results, and I note: The Court of Auditors is slim, fit and agil like a sneaker! Some say: It's an old tired box and starved, there's nothing going on! - That's not the way it is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Of course you're right! We need to look at it, now the reserves are almost exhausted. I am also pleased that the Minister of Finance has succeeded in convincing that this year, in order to be able to set up infrastructure measures, we need to increase the resolution of reserves to €2 million. This has been successful, and this also ensures the quality of the Court of Auditors for the coming year. But: I confess and say quite openly – in this we are all, I believe, agreed – that, since the Court of Auditors is our instrument, we will ensure it with the medium-term financial planning next year in such a way that, as the President has also mentioned in the Committee, we come from the 278 full employment equivalents to 290. Then it is also ensured that the Court of Auditors can continue its work in the usual quality. - That's what we all want! I would also like to underline the new impact objectives of the President, who, above all, Mr Gahr mentioned above, are concerned with the follow-up tests that can be more targeted in this respect as to whether what has actually been done on recommendations and demands has actually been implemented. You can't do this better than you understand it strategically with your own people. I also very much welcome the reduction of the period of opinion by the audited bodies, because the transmission of the partial reports, the individual reports to Parliament, must be said, we are now able to deal with things more up-to-date, faster and thus more transparent. So we do not have to wait until four or five different ministries have completed all the audit reports, but they can then be quickly brought to the committee and thus to the House. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors is important for us. The Court of Auditors has neither been starved nor delivered any vague results. We will work to ensure that in the future – and you can rely on it, Madam President – the Court of Auditors will have the means that it needs in order to be able to carry out a quality assessment accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12899	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear High House! After the Court of Auditors return to art and culture. Here you really have to congratulate the Minister! We have already heard that it is difficult when it comes to the budget: Everyone wants more. Many have received the same budget, some have had to take some savings, but the Minister has managed to increase the budget for art and culture by € 13.1 million. This is also a good thing, because this makes it possible to stay internationally among the leading cultural countries. Individual sub-areas will benefit, some of which have already been mentioned. I would particularly like to stress the €6 million available for contemporary art and culture. So there is also a good step to remain – above all internationally – in the first league. In any case, I would like to address one issue here – and we discussed it in the Committee too – which is about the objective of equality. I think that in the field of art and culture, especially the value and quality of art and culture should be the priority and not exclusively the sex of the artist. If the report is followed, 48 per cent of the funding for women is shown to be a very, very high quota. I am pleased that no quota arrangements will be necessary here. I would also like to ask the Minister to reform the arts and culture sector as well. There are always influences and restrictions on the development possibilities of the artists when it is in the field of promotions, and there, I think, one should leave a little bit more room for the artist, for the artist. Nevertheless, it needs a gap- loose transparency and, above all, a fair distribution of resources. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, I would like to focus on a subject which has not yet been addressed: It would be desirable to focus on a cultural sector which is very, very important to me personally, namely the cultural events in the regional areas. These have an incredible meaning and should therefore be focused on it. At this point, I would also like to thank the many, many volunteers who care for rural culture and, above all, the Austrian, the regional customs – which is a very, very important part of the Austrian cultural landscape – so warmly! It would be, I think, in the sense of many, if one could perhaps put a focus on it in the budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12975	Mr Sieber. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e12996	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Estimated People's Lawyers! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to express my special thanks to the People's Procuratorate, to all the lawyers and their employees and to the Commissions who are doing their work to the best satisfaction of all citizens across Austria. I would really like to thank you for this! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I am also pleased that our Minister Schelling has succeeded in setting up a budget for the People's Procuratorate in difficult times and under difficult conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, this increase of €200 000, which is more available to the public prosecutors, is specifically to be estimated. Much of it – more precisely: 56 percent – is estimated for personnel expenditure, both for auditing administrative control and preventive human rights control. Even if the public prosecutorship is very economical about the existing budget – and I would also like to thank you for it, because this economical approach is in the interests of citizens – I am very pleased that we do not want to save on preventive control. The public prosecutor's claim is to ensure an effective and independent monitoring and prevention mechanism to prevent any form of exploitation, violence and abuse in all situations of imprisonment. In 2015, the public prosecutors reported a decline in complaints compared to the previous year, with 17 231 complaints about public administration by 2 417 less than in 2014. This decline has already been offset this year, as the number of complaints has already increased by 16 percent, as has already been mentioned. This decline is due in 2015 to a new administrative jurisdiction. The Public Prosecutor's Office remains committed to the objective of equality. In principle, it has no control of the grounds of appeal and of the appellants, and even if high-complaint areas, such as asylum or judicial institutions, are of their own accord, there were Last but not least, an over-planned increase in the number of female complainants. This may be due to the fact that the People's Procuratorate has focused its events on women's specific topics. In the future, the People's Procuratorate intends to address more and more women with its public relations work. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Volksanwälte! I hope that, as before, we will continue to maintain good cooperation in the future. I can assure you that we, our group, the ÖVP, will continue to face up to the legitimate concerns of the public prosecutors in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13050	The next item is Mrs Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13072	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated Volksanwälte! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too, as chairman of the People's Procuratorate Committee, would like to refer, of course, to the public prosecutor's budget. The People's Procuratorate is certainly the smallest, but most economical, supreme organ, however, it enjoys great appreciation in the population. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the members of the People's Procuratorate and the Volksanwälten on the part of our group. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For the public prosecutor's office with an expenditure of €10.8 million, the draft budget for the 2017 German Federal Government estimates a small increase of 1.9 percent – Mr. Sieber has just explained this. The biggest effort concerns staff costs, three new planning posts are planned, but – and this has already been mentioned today – there has been a massive increase in complaints to the public prosecutors compared to the previous year with the reporting date 1. October this year, around 14 percent, in some areas even more. In the field of tourism and asylum, the public prosecutors report an increase in the number of complaints of 53 percent and in the field of justice a 27 percent, i.e. there is a very large need for administrative work, as the public prosecutors belong to support. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In a letter to the club, the public prosecutors asked for support, namely to increase their budget by €373,000. I can tell you from my side and from our group that we would very much like to support this concern and we would also support this €373 000 more. In particular, I would ask the representatives of the government parties to give themselves a back. They are always talking at the speaker's desk about how important and good the People's Procuratorate is, what high regard they enjoy in the population, so it would be more than appropriate to comply with this demand or request from the Public Procuratorate. There is another point in this letter. The Secretary of State – I heard her very well during her remarks earlier – said that the Federal Chancellor's Office had no longer had to resolve any reserves. I think that the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate would like this, but unfortunately it is not the case. Each year, the Public Procuratorate may, or must, dissolve €300 000 from the reserves. So far, so bad. The problem that now arises is that in the years 2019 and 2020, the People's Procuratorate must no longer resolve these setbacks. That is why we have to question the Minister for Finance. I'm not It's clear why we're trying to limit the public prosecutor's office financially. Perhaps the desire for the Christian child would be to increase the general budget for the People's Procuratorate. That, I believe, will not happen, but to say that we limit the public prosecutorship financially will certainly not exist with us. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we owe the People's Procuratorate sufficient financial resources for their work. And we must act more courageously and far-sightedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13129	I call Mr Hell. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13150	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! First of all, I can take the 4th. Class of the wood engineering centre Kuching, which is a guest here today, welcome quite cordially. [[General condolences.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, people must have the opportunity to have easy access to their rights. The Public Prosecutorship as an independent administrative control body controls the public administration, checks whether the administration is acting under the law, meets human rights standards, and assists people seeking help. It has already been mentioned today, in 2015, the Public Prosecutor's Office has dealt with 17 732 cases, 17 231 of which concerned public administration control and 501 preventive human rights control. Therefore, the provision of the public prosecutor's office, both financially and humanly, is a very important concern for us. Mr President, I think we are always very positive about the public prosecutor's concerns in the public prosecutor's committee, and we also appreciate the work of the public prosecutor's office. In 2017, the budgetary framework rose to € 10.8 million – this has already been addressed today – which is a plus 1.9 percent compared to the previous year. There are also 0.3 million € in deposits. According to the 2017 Staff Plan, the Public Prosecutor's Office has 75 posts. A personal increase – and this was also discussed in the preliminary discussions – will be decided in spring 2017. We are very positive about this decision. [[Complementary of the Abg. Schimanek.]] The Public Prosecutor's Office is also reviewing private and public institutions in which freedom is restricted. The responsibility includes all the facilities in Austria where people are stopped, such as in detention centres, asylum centres, psychiatric and, of course, in nursing homes. The problem of refugees has given rise to a new task for the People's Procuratorate. There must, of course, be greater checks. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, maintaining the high quality of the public prosecutor's investigation as well as informal, free and easy access to the public prosecutor's office are two of the public prosecutor's objectives. These objectives were fully achieved in 2015 according to the evaluation report. Close proximity and easy access to the public prosecutor's facilities have found a very high acceptance among the population. I can also, on behalf of my colleagues, take a very warm look at the staff of the People's Procuratorate for their Thank you for your work. They contribute significantly to the right of people in our Republic. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13211	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13232	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I listened closely to Minister Drozda when he was in office and found some of the proposals he made on media policy to be very good, including the analysis that there is a lot going wrong with press promotion in Austria. We have a press promotion, which is being continued at the modest, shortened level of recent years, but which is also extremely preoccupied with the structure, which promotes newspapers that are asked how it is done, and which, above all, does not ensure that quality journalism in Austria can be financed through this form of press promotion. At the same time, there is the problem that the financial situation in the media market has become increasingly complicated. – We probably share that in the analysis. At the time, you said it would probably be useful to look at advertising policy, order less ads and come to a transparent and better form of press promotion. We can't find that in the budget now. I agree that you may have tried, but only notice that there has been no decision by the government to change something here. This is a pity, as this form of believing that, through certain contributions to the media, better reporting will continue to be maintained. And this is actually not worthy of modern press promotion. I would like to address another point that is becoming a problem. Apparently, in quality media – whether electronic or printing media – it is almost impossible to send journalists abroad. There is hardly any more the possibility to work on correspondents. What you now recognize is a new form of hidden media promotion. There are apparently invitations from the ministers to the newspapers to send journalists on visits abroad. This is paid by the Minister – a specialist is expected to be short; he is not here now, perhaps we could ask him more closely. And it's intrusive. It is completely intruding, since in the field of quality journalism, it would actually be mandatory to identify in the article: This trip was financed by the Ministry. But that's not happening. You can often wonder why this reporting is the way it is, but if you look at the number of journalists who are with you, it will become clearer. If you look at the economic emergency, you don't need to wonder that it is partly the only way for journalists to get into crisis areas at all. Minister Kurz's trip to Silicon Valley was apparently great, all Austrian newspapers were full of it – and then you can see what happened there. Mrs. Brunner told us that it was difficult in Marrakech to talk to journalists at all, since they were invited by Minister Rupprechter to another event every evening. They were not at all available for reporting, so to speak, as socializing with the Minister is in the foreground. This certainly has nothing to do with transparent and reasonable media promotion and media policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I did not understand the call from the NEOS, but this leads me to the next topic, on the question: Does it need a public-law broadcasting? – It is already clear that the model proposed by NEOS includes in itself the resolution of public-law broadcasting. Now you can shake the head, but if you say we solve the ORF, there is no station behind it anymore, the editors produce content, and the content can then be purchased – that was the alm model, so it is not so new, and it has already been described several times – then you know that this cannot work. [[Abg. Strolz: There are in Sweden!]] – In Sweden there is that. Well, there's no public broadcasting. It may also be that this is not necessary. If you look at the current developments, if you look at the presidential campaign in America, then you have to say that there are channels that are extremely ideological, such as “FOX News” on the one hand, but also channels that are closer to the Democrats, that is the form, how then public-law broadcasting no longer works, as it has not yet existed in America – about 2 percent reach. And I wonder if one should seriously argue in this situation, in which Europe is now, that public-law broadcasting organizations, which as the only one have the task of objectivity – although one can rightly discuss whether this is being fulfilled, no question at all – should be fully questioned from the structure. And that's what NEOS do with it. It is also legitimate to ask what makes sense to introduce a decision on the financing of public broadcasting into the budget. From my point of view, it was really a progress to reject the annual access of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, and to say that we are no longer doing so in such a way that a political decision is taken here at every increase, i.e. for an increase there is a need for personnel to be fulfilled. It is unimaginable for me to say that we are carrying it back to Parliament, as it naturally pushes political influence to the height. One can discuss whether it is sufficient for the media authority to control the request of the ORF and determine whether an increase – in principle also a reduction – is justified. We can talk about whether the media authority checks sufficiently. But the idea of returning to the budget every year, the Minister of Finance, the chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor, and then looking at how reporting is, and if it's good, you get something, it's bad. The EIA has meant if it gets the financial director, then it is for an increase, otherwise not. – Yes, that would be a multiple of getting that back when you do it in direct political influence. Then let us see if the control mechanisms of the media authority are sufficient, because I am in the process, but to call into question the public-law character completely, to strengthen political influence and not to weaken and ultimately to go here and say that, no matter what it is, we do not need it in Central Europe, what does that mean for Austria? – We have two, maybe three private channels that have half an area. ATV is currently discussing whether it is sold and possibly going to the second group, the ProSieben Group. Mr Mateschitz said last year from one day to the other that ServusTV is being stopped. Then there is Pulse TV as the only channel that can finance itself via advertising windows. And this is to be the future of the Austrian media market? I certainly can't see this future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13296	Mrs Mag. Dr. Karl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13317	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate the Minister of Finance for having succeeded in creating this budget despite the very difficult conditions. We must not forget that the refugee situation and the lack of reforms in key areas have given us additional scope. The immediate impact of the refugee situation, for example, on the Federal Administrative Court. For the processing of significantly increased asylum applications and a procedural acceleration, an increase of €16.4 million will therefore be made, which is about 32 percent. In the sub-division 10 concerning the Federal Chancellery, it is pointed out that the cross-sectoral coordination and strategy serves the efficient fulfilment of the respective government programme and other Federal Government projects. However, effective implementation of the current government programme must also mean that the modernisation of public service law provided for in the Modern State chapter is carried out as quickly as possible in order to finally implement a modern, independent and uniform right of service with professional characteristics. The Federal Chancellery aims at positioning itself as an attractive and modern service provider, as can be seen from the effect Objective 1 of Division 10. The aim is to ensure the efficient organisation of motivated, committed and qualified staff in accordance with the requirements of the tasks. This is to be welcomed in principle, but effect Objective 1 in its effect is only aimed directly at the target group of BKA staff, although the BKA's area of competence also generally covers the personnel of public servants. I therefore call on the Federal Chancellery to finally ensure that all public servants enjoy attractive and modern service rights. It should be pointed out that the explanatory memorandum on Objective 2 expressly points out that employees in the public service are an essential resource for effective and efficient provision of services. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance has also succeeded in meeting all EU targets with this budget. For the third time in a row, we achieve a structural zero deficit. However, compliance with EU requirements should also be taken for granted. In this context, I would like to remind you of the implementation of the procurement directive which should have taken place a long time ago. A lack of or lack of directive implementation can lead to state liability in the final consequence, and we should not let it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13360	Mrs Gamon. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13384	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few more words about the Court of Auditors budget. The Court of Auditors has too little money, so it must be a Tuesday in November, because last year we held exactly the same discussion here. I could say one more time at a time, but I will try to explain what has changed in the meantime, although it is not much. The Court of Auditors has already failed to have sufficient financial resources, which has the effect of failing to meet these enormous administrative burdens, which it is now exposed to due to the additional tasks, in such a way that it would like to comply with them. And he has to resort to setbacks again, as already last year, in order to be able to do so properly, as the employees of the Court of Auditors also have such a self-understanding that they also carry out the tasks imposed on them by us, the Parliament. These tasks – and this is about the Party Act, the Incompatibilities Act, the Media Transparency Act – bind resources of four to five full-time equivalents in the Court of Auditors over the year, which are about €500 000, which then added additional burden to the Court of Auditors' budget. We know that with these control functions, which have been added to them, this is not the way it may seem, because of course the Court of Auditors has been given more tasks, but these control rights are not equipped in such a way as we would like it to be. The Court of Auditors, for example, although it must examine the accounts of the parties, does not have any original rights of view and examination, which would actually be necessary in order to examine properly. If we want to fight corruption and the economy of friendships, we must also ensure that the control instrument we need Parliamentarians to do so is also appropriately equipped. And if the Court of Auditors does not have sufficient financial resources at its disposal, this control is not possible to this extent. Now, I would like to make an alternative argument that might help the government parties to decide to give the Court of Auditors more money: The probability is not so low that either of you may not be in the government in the next period. That is, you will be the opposition party, and then it may be in your interest to have a strong control body and to equip it accordingly. You could now see this as an incentive to give more money to the Court of Auditors on the next occasion, because at the latest you will notice that it is very good to have a good control body as an opposition, which is able not only to deal with administrative sample tasks such as the Party Act, but to check it properly. And I hope you might convince me.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13427	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Kraker, spoke on an opinion. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13448	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Estimated Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would now like to take this debate on the Court of Auditors' budget to thank all the Members of the Court of Auditors, in particular the Court of Auditors' Committee, for the goodwill that you and your work bring to the Court of Auditors and also to me. I am very grateful for the fact that there is a very good basis for discussion with all the political groups of the National Council and that the work of the Court of Auditors will be so positive. I would like to stress that working control needs three things: First of all, it needs employees who can provide first-class test reports and analyze the complex facts objectively and objectively. And in the Austrian Court of Auditors – I can assure you – we have such employees. Secondly, we need parliamentary decision-makers who deal with these reports by the Court of Auditors intensively and who are taking action on the basis of the recommendations for system improvements and developments. A Court of Auditors can only be effective with your support, because you have the political conclusion, which follows the implementation. Thirdly, the Court of Auditors needs framework conditions that ensure clear planning of resources for the Court of Auditors as an institution of independent and external financial control in the coming years. The Court's budget for the year 2017 now stands for the debate. I've been running since 1. In July of this year, as the head of the budget, the Court of Auditors, a house which carries out its core tasks, the examination and consultation. However, I now have the task of reminding you at this point, at the time of the decision-making of the Federal Finance Act 2017, of the fact that, at the latest from the next financial framework, sufficient budgetary resources will be provided for the Court of Auditors in the medium term so that the Court of Auditors can continue to fulfil its control function at the usual high level. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last week you have received a letter inviting you to participate in an online survey to be satisfied with the work of the Court of Auditors. The effective consultation of the National Council and also of the Landtages is a central objective of me as President of the Court of Auditors. This concerns your satisfaction with the advice provided by the Court of Auditors, the topicality of the issues and the understanding of the reports. This is a new indicator for the Court of Auditors, and we have included this in our information on impact orientation. There are just as we have seen here in the debate, wishes – for example, by Mr Zanger – which are addressed to the Court of Auditors, for example, regarding the website et cetera. You can also tell us all in this survey, because there are also open fields. So we want to raise the status quo and then make improvements so to speak. The survey runs until the end of the year, and in the first half of 2017, we will inform you about the results. With regard to the reduction of the time limit for the opinion – because this has also been mentioned in the debate –: Yes, that would be my wish, but it is the task of the Constitutional Legislator to shorten the term of opinion, because the federal constitution contains the three months within it. As far as follow-up reviews are concerned, it is true that we are focusing on follow-up reviews in order to make the implementation rate meaningful. The results of the demand process will continue to be based, as it were, on data from the audited bodies. The Court of Auditors, as the body of the National Council, makes a significant contribution to the economic, useful and economical use of public resources. New tasks have been added to the classical control and consulting functions in recent years. These are administrative-intensive special tasks that we have already discussed, based on the party law and the media transparency law. There was an extension in the field of municipal audit competence in the field of testing. The Court of Auditors has also received comprehensive tasks in the course of the budgetary reform: Efficacy orientation. As the Court of Auditors, we have recast the draft and financial statements regulation together with the Federal Minister for Finance. We have tasks related to the Stability Pact. There is an opinion here in the event that sanctions-related facts would be present. In order to deal with this extensive portfolio of tasks, it is therefore necessary that we pay attention to the corresponding annual budget allocation of the Court of Auditors in the coming years. Following the Federal Project of the Ministry of Finance, the Court of Auditors is expected to receive a budget of €32,955 million for 2017. This means an increase of only 0.1 percent compared to 2016. This includes the withdrawal of reserves of €1.3 million made by us. By deducting service providers' contributions to official pensions in 2017, the Court of Auditors has an operating budget which is lower than in 2012. In view of this budgetary situation, it is clear that the real development of the Court of Auditors has not been taken into account. The Court of Auditors' budget is therefore only nominal, but not real, stable. That is why, in the past week, I was also relieved that the Ministry of Finance – late, but still – has complied with the urgent concern of the Court of Auditors to increase the withdrawal of deposits by €700 million to € 2 million in total and that this has also been promised in writing. This assurance is therefore important because the Court of Auditors needs these funds for urgently upcoming IT and security investments. The Court of Auditors' budget for the year 2017 is thus for the first time secured. But what results from the medium-term budget needs of the Court of Auditors? I should like to stress here in this House that it is also my objective as President of the Court of Auditors that, of course, the Court of Auditors will continue to take good care of strict budgetary discipline in the future. However, the Court of Auditors has already made a contribution: 86 percent of our expenditure in the Court of Auditors is staff expenditure. This was, of course, a restrictive staff policy, the essential screw that could be turned on in the Court of Auditors. The Court's staff position was reduced by two planning posts in 2014, from 325 to 323. This is also provided for in the 2020 financial framework, and it is not intended to be scrambled. What is now a problem, however, is the decline in actual human resources, the actually exploited full employment equivalent, because this has been significantly reduced since 2013. The Court of Auditors still had around 290 full employment equivalents in 2013; it works on 1st day of the year. November 2016 only with 276 full employment equivalents. This means that the staff plan is only used to a share of 85.4 percent. The aim of the Court of Auditors must therefore be – I have already described the growing range of tasks – to increase the share of the use of the staff plan to 90 percent. With the current caps, as provided for in the financial framework, constant and continuous personnel planning on this basis is not feasible. The constant reduction in the service budget is of course also a problem in the field of on-the-spot testing. The Court of Auditors has already stressed several times that it needs planning security. Why? – Since 2014, the Court of Auditors has had to collect reserves annually to cover its disbursements. The short-term situation is relaxed, but it does not solve the problem of medium-term financial collateral, because the budget for 2017 does not in fact provide for an increase. The Court's reserves are already greatly reduced, and with a budget of 86 percent on staff expenditure and 5 percent on rents, this is not a basis for careful and forward-looking planning. Therefore, by the end of 2017, the reserves will no longer be available to compensate for any budgetary gap in the Court of Auditors. That is why I would like to ask the National Council, starting with the financial framework for the years 2018 to 2021, which will be discussed here in this House next spring, to make available to the Court of Auditors the urgently needed annual budget resources to meet the increased requirements of the Court of Auditors, because, of course, a stagnant budget will reduce de facto control resources in Austria. I therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen: Support me to ensure effective control in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13558	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Kirchgatterer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13582	Ladies and gentlemen! This budget chapter also includes the Austrian indigenous groups, and these Austrian groups are very important to us. In the last legislative period of the National Council, the local panel solution for Carinthia has been successful, the State Secretary Ostermayer has achieved this solution in broad cooperation. The Presidency of the Carinthian Slovenian Ana Blatnik in the Austrian Federal Council has also been very positive. We have obligations to our groups. Language and culture are of great importance for further development. The good climate, the high quality, the attractiveness of the community schools is also recognized by the fact that their students come from areas that go far beyond those of the ethnic groups, and that is a good thing. These schools, including kindergartens, are intended to have a corresponding future-oriented support. Ladies and gentlemen, the new press promotion, which has been mentioned several times today, should offer additional opportunities. Many are good will. I would like to express my great appreciation and appreciation for the positive work, also for the estimated cooperation of the Slovenian People's Group in the south of our Republic, the Burgenland Croats, Hungary, Roma and Sinti, as well as in Vienna of Roma and Sinti, Slovakia, Czech Republic and Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen! I can make a second point, namely the Austrian People's Procuratorate. Since 2012, the Austrian Public Prosecutor's Office has covered the human rights sector. The public prosecutor's office is very well positioned, the checks are unregistered. Very good knowledge of the control bodies is given great importance because injustices, violence, abuses – young people, old people, prisons, everywhere – are to be prevented. “gesture of responsibility” was the name of the event here in the house last Thursday. Many can only talk about it after decades. It was about children and young people in homes and boarding homes who had been abused there, who had been violently committed. Horror, no end, apologies, regrets, compensation of state and church were the tenor of speeches of the highest representatives. The problem is great. The wounds have not yet been healed. Many have said how important this confession is to them the guilt of state and church. For us, it means doing everything to prevent similar things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13624	The next speaker was Mrs Lintl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13646	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the Court of Auditors once again because this is a special concern for us, and I would like to thank the staff and you, Madam President, very much for your valuable work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this budget approach does not provide sufficient budgetary resources. We have already heard several times that it would be urgent to increase staffing levels at least in order to be able to carry out further tests. The additional special tasks of the Party Law, the Media Transparency Act and the Federal President's Election Act create a real increased effort, and it would be very important to cover it. It would be a shame if, because of a lack of staff, the opinion period could not be reduced from three months to six weeks and if there could be no further follow-up tests. The Austrians trust the Court of Auditors and want this body to be strengthened, including financial resources. Former Court President Dr. Moser left 1 007 recommendations for the Federal Government, especially major structural reforms in the fields of education, health, social affairs, pensions and promotions. The Federal Government is required to implement these reforms, because – I quote Dr. Moser from a press interview a few weeks ago –: Without rapid reforms, Austria will soon run against the wall. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13687	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13708	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! The European Commission has commissioned a study to highlight the situation of European minorities or ethnic groups. The result is dramatic, and the result is dramatic, because the study concludes that 80 percent of European groups – 80 percent of a unique linguistic and cultural diversity in Europe – are at risk. The figures are dramatic, but the situation of the Austrian ethnic groups is also similar to that of the whole of Europe. We too are at risk of the ethnic groups, and we must address this openly. There is a solid legal system, at the time a constitutional target, which states that the Republic – federal, state and local authorities – confesses itself to its growing cultural and linguistic diversity, precisely to the indigenous groups and that this culture and language are to be preserved and safeguarded. In addition, there are other laws to ensure this. But: There is no healing world, and reality is another – for there is a sluggish assimilation and it happens that the language of the ethnic groups is no longer used in everyday life. This concerns the Burgenian Croatians, the Carinthian Slovenians, the Hungarians, the Czechs, the Slovaks, but also the Roma. And we cannot accept this, because the uniqueness of Europe and Austria lies in its diversity of cultures and the diversity of languages, customs and traditions. If this is lost, then an essential piece of Austrian identity is also lost – and this, although it is a peaceful one These groups live together! That is why we must fight against it with all our strength. An important area in this context is education, because the communication of the national language groups is of particular importance. The popular languages used in everyday life are a central part of communication. If that doesn't work anymore, then they're going to be lost. Even there we have laws, but the situations of life have changed: The population groups in their autochthonical areas are no longer limited to villages, limited to regions. Social, private changes have occurred so that we can find people across Austria today, especially in Vienna, Graz and other areas. And it is also necessary to respond to this with regard to the legal situation. At present, it is true that only in their indigenous settlements can the peoples use and learn the language and culture. This is a circumstance that is not satisfactory. That is why we need modernisation in the field of education. That is why the peoples were so sensitive to the issue of education reform. All six recognised groups asked: To what extent are the Austrian ethnic groups present in it? And the information of the minister of education at the time was that the status quo does not deteriorate. That's good, but that's too little, because the Austrian groups need a perspective. The line was always that the members of the Austrian ethnic groups from Kindergarten can also use and learn their language until the university. This should also be the case in the new field of education. This is therefore an appeal to the Minister for Education to ensure the same. Recently, the Austrian ethnic groups were in the People's Group Centre together with the spokespersons of all the parliamentary parties, and they also called on them to provide a multilingual group-specific education offer in Vienna. That is absolutely necessary. A second area is also important: press promotion. We discussed this in the Committee: It receives support from the Burgenland-Croatian newspaper “Hrvatske Nomine”, but also the Carinthian-Slovenian newspaper “Novice” but it needs more. If such important information sheets are no longer available, the ethnic group lacks a document. There are still no media without number and only a few that have quality. And it is important, and we have talked about the fact that they are also supported, because it is necessary to secure an inventory in the print media sector. In conclusion: Recently, the European People's Group Youth Conference, entitled "Rušiti zid(inov)e_Breaking walls", also drew attention to the need to maintain and support this uniqueness of our European culture throughout Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13764	Mr Mag. Dr. Zinggl is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13785	Ladies and gentlemen! Short to the cultural budget: 13 million € more for the culture is not a big throw, but it is at least a plus or an increase in the cultural budget share in the total budget from ridiculous 0.5 percent to 0.6 percent. When you consider that two thirds of them go to the Federal Museums and the Federal Theatre, you have to say, so we don't have much left for the culture and for art anymore. But also the difference between the share for Bundestheater, Bundesmuseen and the rest has not gone further, so it looks very good at the moment. Strangely when it came to budgeting, I thought it was part of the Austrian National Library. The increase from 2015 to 2016 was €1.1 million. Then last year, due to the planned House of History, we added another €0.5 million. Now the share for the House of History has been significantly reduced. Nevertheless, there is a further increase of € 0.9 million, and from 2017 to 2018 again € 1.8 million, makes a total of more than € 4.2 million. That is what I am asking myself for, and I asked you, Mr Minister, in the Committee on Budgets, and the answer was not very clear, because the Literary Museum, which is part of the National Library, may not need so much money. No matter, it is more coherent that a museum reform is announced on the one hand and, on the other hand, it is not budgeted for it. This indicates that not much will be implemented, so that the reform cannot be very far-reaching. Of course, you're right, as you answered me: If nothing is yet available, you can't budget anything. But on the other hand, something will probably be available in January/February, and if there is no money – well, it still, I think, €27 million in reserves, so if you want to, you can do that. But when I consider, on the other hand, that this reform is also developed by ICG – and this is the company that has also brought the reform of the Bundestheater into a holding – then I am not very optimistic, because we know what this holding has done more or less in connection with the Burgtheater scandal. Now a few words on another subject, namely the promotion of groups. Ladies and gentlemen, for 21 years, the promotion of groups has been constantly €3.8 million. In § 8 of the Volksgruppengesetz, the Law requires the Federal Government to take measures to preserve and promote the ethnic groups. In 1995, €3.8 million was needed and €3.8 million was still needed 21 years later. That can't be! In the meantime, inflation, i.e. an increase, has been 50 percent in purchasing power. That means that the money is now worth 50 percent less. Something's wrong. I would say that this is already a clear real reduction in the budget, and that is not a friendly treatment for the ethnic groups. If I also remember that the groups of organisations that do not use the money properly must let it flow back into the overall budget, then I would say that the organizations that really do great work every day and no longer know how to finance it should at least recover these return flows, because this is finally a reduction in the budget for the groups. So either we confess to the ethnic groups, then we also have to do the corresponding thing, or we lift up those paragraphs. However, this is a constitutional law, and there will hardly be a two-thirds majority for that. So I would suggest that we take a little more account of the groups and increase this support in the future. My written question on this matter is answered as follows: They should be glad that this has not been shortened! So that's not a good deal, and I'd think about it. I suggest that next year a significant increase in the budget for the ethnic groups should be planned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13833	Federal Minister Mag. Drozda is now speaking. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13855	I begin with a few comments on the budget in general and then deal with individual questions that have been asked. You know, the structural deficit is falling to 0.5 percent. The Maastricht balance is falling to 1.2%, with total debt falling from 85 to 80.9%. So this is a considerable consolidation performance that has been achieved, and yet it has succeeded in setting priorities. I mention in this context the focus of public investment of €5.2 billion and a priority in the field of active labour market policy of €1.6 billion. The Federal Chancellor's Office's budget briefly outlined Mr Muna Duzdar. We have an increase in subgroup 10 to € 457.2 million. That's plus of € 55.6 million. In particular, this will be invested in the digital sector, and I also have to say: In the knowledge of the latest studies on digital matters, we are very good at this area, and I believe that with these additional investments, with what we have in addition, we can expand this very good position that we have. They know that we have also made simplifications in the field of deregulation, debureaucratisation, in the digital sector, but also for individuals. You know all of this. In the field of culture, I am delighted with the broad support for the increase in the budget, which has succeeded in increasing € 13.1 million, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for Finance Schelling once again for the good cooperation and for understanding. There too I find broad consensus and broad agreement on the use of funds, which, in short, provides for an increase in museums, but which, of course, goes into contemporary life, is invested in the free groups and in the studios. That's well-invested money. I would like to invite you to the “away” exhibition in the 7th century. See the district where we show what our fellow scholarships have developed over the past two years. In this exhibition you can see that since 1985 new places have been created permanently for artists and that the name list of those who have visited these programs currently means the who’s who of local contemporary art. So you can see how important this investment in contemporary and young artists is. I have two or three specific comments on questions raised, namely, by Mr Steinhauser on data protection. I can provide you with the detailed answer. In fact, data protection has been increased by around €300 000 from € 1.4 million to €1.7 million and, if necessary, funds are available from the central office for technicians, technicians and technical questions. At the National Library I am grateful for the note. We have looked at this and we have actually come to see that there is a need to make a correction, since this is already financed from the reserve and the National Library is only provided with the funds it really needs. So I thank you for the suggestion. By the way, I have reserved myself to look at the entire museum financing once again, also on the basis of the White Paper, which is now to be drawn up, but not only on the basis of it, but also on the basis of an evaluation which I would like to carry out with the joint auditors who have now been selected. I believe that it is necessary that the encouraging increase that we now have is really needed and distributed on the basis of objective criteria. In any case, this will be ensured in the course of the next year, including for medium-term budget planning. A final word on press promotion, whereby I see a great deal of agreement here in the House in the analysis and also with the need to finance broad, platform-independent journalism. I am currently discussing these media promotions with my negotiating partner Werner Amon and I will hold an appointment with the Commission at the beginning of December to clarify these concrete new developments in European law. They are not in the budget, therefore, because I agree with the Minister for Finance that we are not thinking of the Federal Budget in the first place, but rather of taking those who do not contribute to the budget, although they have the highest dynamic revenue in this area; these are Facebook, Google, Booking.com and other platforms that have a double-digit growth The sector and de facto do not contribute a single euro to both advertising and sales tax. I think this is unfair. I think this is unfair. And that is why we have said that we will not finance this by means of tax money and now take into account in the budget, but will try to find a solution, as these institutions can be fairly included in the tax revenue. The fact that the use of funds will be a clear focus on journalism, quality journalism, digital changeover is, I believe, relatively broad consensus, which has also shown itself at the media survey or press survey to which I have invited. A final word on the ORF: You know that I am not an undifferentiated supporter of any increase in contributions on this issue, and in this context I have also invited all the key players on the issue of ORF funding to discuss media promotion in a new and overall manner in the first quarter. I assume that we come to models of financing, which at least have to ensure the independence of the ORF, because any other form of financing, where one brings a public-law medium into a budget-bargaining situation, I think is quite problematic.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13928	Mrs Mag. Greiner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13949	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly address the Court of Auditors' objectives. They were partially addressed. That means: What does the Court of Auditors want to do with its work? How seriously we as parliamentarians take action objectives and control of impact can be seen from the fact that we have installed the Subcommittee of the Budget Committee to do so where we really deal with every single ministry in detail. Each ministry articulates its own goals, depending on the area of activity. The Court of Auditors has recently streamlined its objectives, i.e. it has specified its objectives. I'll take two examples for a moment. Effect Objective 1 is the effective advice of the National Council and the Land Days. How does this consultation take place? It will be carried out by the Court of Auditors by means of an examination of its conduct, which will also lead to measures being taken. This is really a matter of cross-sectional examinations, that is, such concerning federal, state and local authorities, and above all – that has already been emphasized – of follow-up tests. This shows how many measures have actually been implemented, and the degree of implementation is generally very pleasing. Only in the congregations is he still comprehensible. In this connection, I appeal to municipalities – the Court of Auditors has the competence to examine if the municipality has more than 10 000 inhabitants – not to take the Court of Auditors as a control body, but as a consultative body and to use it and to use free expertise. Why? – Because this gives municipalities transparent and truly comparable data. Short to the objective of action 4: This is an effective public financial control by strengthening the cooperation of various control bodies. What to achieve be? – For example, closer cooperation with the national accounting authorities, that one practises an increased exchange of data and information and refers to the respective audit carried out in another organisation, with the declared aim of avoiding any double checks. In summary, I hold: Focused impact targets and focussed impact control are appropriate tools to ensure that public funds are used sparingly and effectively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e13995	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14016	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! The subject of civil service law is also covered by the Federal Chancellor's Office and the State Secretary Duzdar. Since we have had to experience this great decision here, with which – in order to use the words of the Federal Government – it is consciously and expressly perpetuating discrimination. – So we will have to reorganise the civil service law again because of its discrimination in the future when it is lifted again because it has already been muttered again. As I have heard from your words today, Mrs State Secretary, you have heard a lot of things and a few billions of them because of digitalization, because perhaps a carpenter who has been doing this for ten years is now also digitizing his plans. - That's not an innovation. This has been State of the Art for a long time. Civil service law: There's nothing going on where money really goes. I have the feeling you just don't care. And that would be an essential point, because there is no reasonable control. Staff pensions are paid by the Ministry of Finance. You do the right to serve, and the salaries pay the respective ministry in which these officials are employed. And if a ministry sends officials in early retirement, we'll be back at the Ministry of Finance where the costs will be outsourced if they're someone too much. There's a lot to do. There would be a lot of money to raise. And you should put your focus on that. If you are successful, you have so many millions for your digitization that You don't even know where to go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14046	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14068	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! What are we talking about? – We are talking about taxpayers here, and that is why we want to deal with them carefully. Our top goal is: no new debt, no new taxes! We don't want to hang our children and grandchildren a bigger debt backpack. How does that look in the budget? – Debts are reduced thanks to strict budget discipline. At the same time, important achievements are being further financed for us. This includes the activities of the Volksanwälte. It is particularly important for our society. Why? – For example: Who helps when it comes to social benefits, for example, when someone has a greater need for care, but for the care allowance in a lower level remains classified? – The person concerned can complain to the prosecutors, and in many cases he can be helped. Another area: Many older people worry and wonder: How will I be when I have to go to a nursing home? What is it like to order the quality of our old and care homes? That's very important to us. It examines whether human rights are also respected in those bodies where freedom can be deprived. We are very grateful for this. The big question is: Can this important control activity also be maintained in 2017? Thank you, Dr. Fichtenbauer, you have made it clear to the Committee that: Yes, there will continue to be controls of this kind! This is important for us seniors. Thank you too, Dr. Brinek. It has been particularly committed to the long-term overdue reform of the state of affairs. We have already achieved success together. This year, as we all hope, we will launch a new, modern law, a new adult protection law. And what is this supposed to do with improvements? – This is about supporting rather than detonating. Everyone should only get as much help as he absolutely needs. And the current judicial officer, a judicial adult protection representative in the future, will only be the very last resort. All other forms of support must be used in advance. So this is a good and an important way to more humanity. The activities of the Volksanwälte are secured for 2017. Who's the use of this? – Quite clearly: citizens! They can continue to come to the Volksanwälten with their concerns and complaints. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14113	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Volksanwalt Dr. Kräub, then Mrs. Volksanwältin Dr. Brinek and then Mr. Volksanwalt Dr. Fichtenbauer. I give the floor to Advocate Dr. Herbs. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14137	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all, thank you very much for the kind words, praise and recognition; of course, we are very happy to pass this on to our employees in the People's Procuratorate. What is the goal of the College of Public Prosecutors in 2017 with our €10.76 million? – We want to carry out our tasks as comprehensively and efficiently as possible with these small and manageable means. As you know, the three tasks are: first, the individual complaints we are dealing with. We expect some 20,000 complaints from citizens again next year. Secondly, our task of preventive protection of human rights. Our expert commissions will also carry out around 500 visits next year. And we will continue to carry out our international task as the General Secretariat of the IOI, the International Ombudsman Institute. I would like to devote myself to these international tasks in the three or four minutes available to me. This fits well with today's chapter Exterior. So how is the budget actually shown here? – Last week the 11. World Conference of the IOI. Such a large event is only available every four years, and the General Secretariat and the Public Procuratorate are now given great recognition by more than 180 member organizations. I have the right to vote in favour of this report. Also officially inform me and thank me, on behalf of the IOI Bureau, with great commitment to providing the IOI with three posts and about €250 000 for the staff and material expenditure. The World Conference took place in Asia for the first time. The IOI is the only global umbrella organisation for ombuds institutions. The Bangkok meeting place was, of course, a very sensitive political challenge, because the IOI is ultimately a human rights organisation. What were the framework conditions of this conference in Thailand? – The social atmosphere after the king's death more than a month ago, of course, was delicate. There's a military government. In Thailand, there is a constant change between civil and military governments, now the 19th century. Since 1932, and in general there is a problematic human rights situation in that country. However, the IOI's decision was clear: We have to go to the hotspots, we have a global responsibility and we have to show the flag! You can't protect human rights at home on the sofa. Of course, we have planned the political messages of our organisation very carefully, for example a meeting with NGOs in Bangkok. I had a long conversation with Amnesty International Thailand, including Human Rights Watch, with the Friedrich-Ebert Foundation and others. The Austrian ambassador to Bangkok, Mag. Enno Drofenik, by the way, has made himself very, very worthy of these encounters. We organised a press conference. There I have been able to represent the aims of the IOI. I am also very pleased how this was depicted on television and in the print media. And we have adopted a Bangkok Declaration, which stresses the principles for ombuds institutions: Independentness, protection of human rights, protection of minorities. I am also very grateful to the ORF. He used to be professional for me, producing a video for the public prosecutor, a clip that represents the “citizen attorney” broadcast very well in English. This should serve as an example for other countries around the world. After the presentation, the 60 USB sticks I took along were gone. We have this clip of course also on our IOI website. This is generally accessible. Take the time! What international projects are there beyond the IOI despite our mini budget? – We are really also a hanging sign for Austria. Some examples: With Kosovo, for example, there is currently a bilateral project. Mrs. Volksanwaltin Dr. Brinek will be in charge. We also have a network in the German-speaking area together with Switzerland and Germany, in which we also deal with the OPCAT mandate, the national prevention mechanism. I also had the honour this year – this presidency is soon to end – to preside over the South-East Europe NPM Network, in which we deal with the Balkan countries together with the National Prevention Mechanism. We have held two very interesting events this year, one in Salzburg and one in Vienna. And of course, human rights protection is also on the run of one of our main topics. We have meetings and consultations with the NHRIs and the Ombuds institutions on the Western Balkans route to make the best possible use of the human rights protection instruments that we have. At the Alpbach Forum, we organised a highly respected session: Human Rights on the Run – Human rights on the run. You see these examples: We really have a wide field of activity internationally. Finally, a concern and also an invitation: Yes, it has been mentioned more often, we have plus 16 percent of complaints compared to the previous year's This is the time. On behalf of the College, in fact on behalf of the citizens, I may request that we receive these three additional academic posts. I thank you very much for the positive signals from the House, but also from the government side. Mr Fichtenbauer explained in the Committee on Budgets the need for us to have an extended scope for the resolution of reserves. All of this is not an unreasonable, overcrowded or unfulfilled demand from my ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that will work in 2017. This is also a wish for our 40th anniversary. We'll be on 30. In January 2017, as an organ of the National Council here in Parliament, a modest, appropriate event will be held. I can invite you very, very cordially – a save-the-date has already been sent. We will look back on four decades of popular prosecution and also light up the present and look into the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The public prosecutor's institution has acquired the respect and trust of the population in decades. We from the People's Procuratorate College know that this appreciation must be acquired, confirmed and filled with life every day, and that is only with your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14207	Now, Mrs. Volksanwälter, Dr. Brinek, is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14228	Ladies and gentlemen here at my side! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! With a few flashlights on our work and with this means I can seamlessly connect to the statements made by my previous speaker. ==References== In July 1977, the People's Procuratorate began to work, and the law came into force. The small institution of public prosecutors, originally only set up temporarily, has begun work and has been stormed by the citizens immediately, one could say. There have also been some changes, reforms and innovations, such as the continuation request in the public prosecutors and so on. ==References====External links== A very large reform has entered into force on July. With the support of Parliament, the largest possible majority, the People's Procuratorate, which was originally designed and employed as a body of fundamental rights and freedoms, has become the human rights house of the Republic. The work has therefore changed completely in principle and systematically. The control commissions which have already been addressed send their results protocols and thus start a work process that starts in the House of Public Prosecutors. These protocols – more than 2,000 since the beginning – are not small file notes with three paragraphs, but up to 50 or 60 pages long and through intensive preparation and work of the People's Procuratorate, the employees, a well-defined and evidence-based testimony to the conditions in our country. This is therefore necessary because we not only want to produce hypotheses, but also to prove them with facts in order to be able to approach those responsible and to work out improvements. This is also necessary because we and Parliament, by commissioning us with this beautiful and important task, are entering into international commitments. are, international obligations within the meaning of Promote, Protect and Prevent, the three PPP. This activity covers far more than the working of the protocols. It includes further reflection on how to promote human rights, awareness, awareness. But it is also a question of complying with the law in which Parliament at that time also commissioned us to cooperate and communicate with schools, with educational institutions, with science and to inform the public about the results in a modern and sustainable way. They should know how the institutions in which people can no longer move freely, with human dignity, with human rights, with regard to human rights, and whether appropriate treatment is guaranteed, a correspondingly designed stay. Let me mention one last smaller point: Efficacy targets are a new instrument in the financial world, but also in monitoring and regulation. The People's Procuratorate is of course involved, subject to this challenge, and is also very much in line with it. All that I have done so far about new tasks, the traditional, classic individual tests remain, of course, in addition to the strengthening of the official tests. We fulfil all the tasks associated with the objectives of action. I would particularly like to draw attention to the objective of gender equality and to an event which at the same time also fulfils the obligation to cooperate with science. Now in November, traditionally, the days are the days when attention is drawn to violence against women. We have managed to hold a lecture on the ring with the University of Medicine in Vienna, in which violence on certain groups and on certain topics is significantly addressed from the public prosecutor's work experiences. We have invited listeners of all faculties, listeners from different areas. The opening event will take place in the People's Procuratorate. Ladies and gentlemen! 75 percent awareness of the People's Procuratorate is a lot, but they're not enough for us. That is why we are also working with this cooperation on an enhanced public, on the further increase in the public awareness of the public prosecutor's office. One last thought to you, Mrs Aubauer, and to all those who have pointed out a social policy issue in recent months and perhaps years, when we are precise: Just a call came again about the states. A woman in charge cannot vote because she does not receive her ID from her agent and therefore cannot prove herself. This example only gives a small picture of the need for reform of the state of affairs. Support and help instead of detonating! If I have heard that out correctly, it will be very soon, hopefully even this year so far. This is a good opportunity to thank me very much for supporting the public prosecutor's concerns in this but also in many other points by novels. That we continue to improve essential things that lie at the heart of people, I also wish for the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14283	Mr Volksanwalt Dr. Fichtenbauer, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14307	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! In addition to the very good and lively debate that was held in the Committee, I should like to add, in a short time, that we are in fact asking you, not for fun, but for the necessity that rests in the system, to comply with the already promised support of the need to grant three planning posts more. I can point out that we have nearly 20,000 individual complaints again. We were pleased to do this with the Federal Ministry of the Interior that the Public Prosecutorship will be a fixed element in the training system of the two-year Police Academy, so that we will have an additional effort for ten locations throughout Austria within the framework of teaching modules, and the teachers will naturally come from the public prosecutor's office and also from the Commission's area and must also be paid. It has already been mentioned that we are not a house of machines, equipment and the like, but a house of people. That is why we have almost 70 percent of the Court of Auditors, 66 percent of our staff expenditure, and this is not taxable either. We cannot save a great deal of money, because people have to pay for it because of the legal provisions. On this occasion, I would like to stress that this is not a terrain for any use of budget funds. Court of Auditors and public prosecutors are like the left and right arms of the legislative. Legislative means the creation of legislation and control of enforcement by the Court of Auditors and by the Volksanwälte, the public prosecutor whose area is possible maladministrations in the administration, underlined and supplemented by the OPCAT system, during which approximately 500 visits of sites are held involuntarily annually. So I can say that the increase in the requirements that have to be dealt with in person is a positive result. The increased extent of what is due to the legislative body by the so-called outsourced companies People's Procuratorate and Court of Auditors leads to the increase and deepening of the consideration of the structure of the Republic. In this sense a lot has already been said and everything has been said, and I thank you for your attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14340	I would like to thank the lawyers for their opinions and the work they have done, and I now give the floor to Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14361	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I can still lose a few words on the cultural budget, on the cultural resort. Although we have a bit of a herb-and-rove debate today, I would nevertheless like to draw attention to this area again. We have already heard today that in the cultural field we can experience a rather interesting increase in the budget by € 13 million, compared with other resorts. This is quite all right and gratifying, although you have to say, of course, if you look at it more precisely, that it is not too much of it, because of the fact that it is natural to cover staff costs again, so it is not really something going into the operating budget, on the other hand, because, for example, the In my opinion, something unfortunate or unfortunate about history is to be financed with which we do not all know exactly where the journey is going. One must fear – and we have debated this more often here in the House – that we will have to experience one-sided history policy there for good tax money. Another point that irritates us is €2 million more, which should flow into the monument protection, to the Federal Monument Office. We all have been waiting for a month for information on the criticism of the Court of Auditors at the Bundesdenkmalamt or on the memorial information system, which is still not finished. The Court of Auditors has found that the cost of this operation has exploded from € 2 million to € 10 million. We are already wondering that there is an increase in the budget without actually providing information. Additional € 6 million flow into art subsidies. That is also very pleasing. But it would be better for us to be free – a well-known old demand – if we managed the funds a little more efficiently or if we were to spend more already, perhaps in a different way. A central concern of freedom of movement for culture is the tax deductibility of private investment in the arts and culture sector. We support the fact that this is really being carried out. A year ago, we decided on the community package. This has been an important approach, but of course it does not go far enough, especially since, in the final analysis, the state decides on the decision by the public to grant subsidies, even private subsidies, because only then is tax deductibility given if the beneficiaries get money from the public sector. We liberals also take action in another essential area of cultural policy – or in the same field – in the field of art subsidies, in order to create more transparency. We all have in mind the unfortunately empty promises of a database of transparency, which should also concern other areas of financial conduct. In the cultural field, it would be particularly necessary to avoid multi-tracks. We are also more interested in this. We will continue to work to ensure that this transparency is actually made. – Thank you for the attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14410	I call Mr Jarolim. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14431	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! We are now on the topic of the top organs. I would like to start at the outset, not least because a survey has been launched by all the Members who, as I hear, have been very positive, thanks to Parliament's management and to the staff that a great achievement has really been achieved in this regard. This is especially in times like this, since we have other projects – I am addressing the relocation – in front of us, not easy. I would therefore like to express once again that we are all very well served and supported in our parliamentary activity. As far as the highest courts are concerned, there are some relatively massive changes in the structure. We have had a very intense discussion since 2006 as to how the position of the highest courts should be to each other. There were multiple discussions, that the competence of the Constitutional Court should be extended in particular and that one should not only be able to come to the VfGH with legal complaints, but also with judgment complaints. There is now a compromise decision that is very good. There are also many first dishes that call the VfGH directly from the first instance. I believe that we have implemented a very good approach and are also provided in the budget accordingly that the administrative courts – the Federal Administrative Court has been referred to several times today – can also be equipped with appropriate personnel. To this end, we can say: What we can do with the budget for the development of the highest courts has been done. It is probably still necessary to consider whether it is really useful to position the expenditure for judges as a matter of fact. I think we will have to change this one or the other, but otherwise I think that the budget in this area is very positive, and we will therefore vote in favour of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14470	Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14492	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Theme ORF: Some have already spoken, Mr Cap, half an hour, three-quarters of an hour in front of me. It is about the ORF – as Mr Cap has said – because of the upcoming increase in fees of € 1 to € 1.20 per month, I think I will pay more. I think it's already time for us to look at the ORF and the so-called program fee a little closer. This programme fee has been taken over from our legal system of 1984 – with the use of title for the purpose of public fraud, because this so-called fee has nothing to do with remuneration at all, but is a lupen-clean tax. It's not even a fee, it's a tax. Why? – Quite clearly, because I don’t pay it under the law for watching ORF programs – then it would be a fee – but for having a radio receiver. This includes a radio and television receiver in today's Judicature. That means: If I don't pay for anything, it's not even a fee like the postal fee, it's actually a tax. How is this tax fixed? – How it is collected is regulated by law. The fixing is also regulated, but how high it is is not regulated by law. The law only states: The ORF Foundation Council shall determine this amount by means of a request from the Director-General. It is a unique irregularity in our rule of law and also in our democratic system that a tax – something which is necessarily lifted by all citizens on the basis of legal basis – is also prescribed and increased by those who collect the tax. It can't be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, I should like to point out that this old law from 1984, which, although novelled x-time, has remained exactly the same in this regard, provides that this programme fee may only be abolished in accordance with § 31 of the ORF Act, when it is necessary to cover the net costs of the public service contract less the income from commercial activity. Has the ORF done this in the last 30 years? – No, these fees were rather used to build up the largest Austrian media group, to spread in all possible sectors: from magazines to TV library, online offers, video-on-demand to the construction of a monopoly in the technical supply of television operators. That's the ORS. There is a monopoly with the Raiffeisen. Today, anyone who will produce television in Austria has to buy technical services from ORF and then pay a reasonable fee, which is, of course, determined by the ORF and its daughter. What are we talking about? – 2016 the fee expectation is about €600 million, in addition to € 220, 225 million from advertising, so say: 720, 730 million € are available for the alleged fulfilment of the public service contract. Let's compare this with other providers! In the meantime, it's not just that evil abroad is radiating, but now we have a lot of indigenous channels – when you express it in public terms – that are produced here. We know her: PULS 4, two ATV programs, ServusTV, now there is even Fellner TV vulgo oe24.TV. How high is the budget of this station? – This is also interesting: About €30 million a year. The fees for the ORF currently amount to € 600 million. What is that, in the broadest sense, from public resources to these channels, such as from this private broadcasting fund, which is, in turn, fed out of a part of the fees? – €2.2 million per transmitter. I know exactly: ServusTV has received €2,107 million in 2015, the ORF alone takes in €600 million in fees. In other words, the ORF refers only to the fees about 20 times a private transmitter. What's going to be done? – A mass program is produced by the public-law order, which is extremely far away. It is tried to catch the entire advertising budget, which can be purchased somewhere in Austria, and to kill everyone else. It is also known to all political parties that all private channels in the loss zone and therefore in their economic survival are at risk. But now the solution cannot be that we say: So, now taxes are being collected more and more and money is distributed to everyone so that the ORF does not have to save! – I think, rather, and it is quite clear: The ORF must be deprived of the competence to get the money itself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are talking about public-law means, and they need to be distributed in a rule of law and democratic way. We have therefore prepared a request, which I read and thus also submit, which is addressed to Minister Drozda – he is not here, no matter what – and that is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14605	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14664	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Mulder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14688	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Austria is not a large country, but a great country, especially in the field of art and culture. Many tourists, foreign students and students move the music to Austria, but also the fine art to which we have important collections and great artists to show. The budget draft – and this is particularly important in times of saving – has an increase of more than €13 million. This is, I think, something that strengthens and preserves the cultural location. In addition to the established art and the freelance artists, for which we provide an important contribution in the budget, there is still a third area, namely the House of History. It is spent at €5 million and is therefore implemented immediately. Thus, for people of all ages, the exhibition-actional capacity, the common experience is put at the centre of attention in order to present the history of the Republic in a contemporary way. The cultural business is fulfilling an important function of knowledge transfer. The institution will be in operation in the Hofburg already in the next year. This is to be welcomed to attribute and highlight the determination of our Minister Thomas Drozda. The establishment of the House of History is enshrined in every government programme of the last 16 years. Since the 1990s initiatives have always been launched. The Council of Europe has already recommended to build such a history museum since 1996, and now this initiative has been launched by Josef Ostermayer. It is certainly a worthy degree when it goes into operation. Since last Thursday, interested persons can apply online on the homepage as well. I am optimistic that this timetable will last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14725	I call Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14746	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Appreciate Volksanwälte! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the President of the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors for their very good facilities, which are of great importance to the people of Austria. I have the right to comment on the Court of Auditors of the European Union 06. The Court of Auditors, with its recommendations, is a basis for our parliamentary work. At €32.9 million for 2017, he is in the budget the same as he did last year. Reserves must be used for the current operation. 2017, we know, these reserves are exhausted. In order for the Court of Auditors to be able to fulfil its core tasks in the future, the future of the Court of Auditors needs to be financed – best with the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 – because otherwise it is difficult for us to get our documents, our audit reports. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard today – as far as the staff in the Court of Auditors are concerned – that there are currently 276 full-time workers. I believe that we need 290 so that the Court of Auditors can continue to carry out his work in the usual form and we have available the relevant documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14777	Mrs Mag. Muttons. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14798	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Back to the area of culture: The question of how to best inspire people for life with literature keeps on taking care of us again and again. Very often, a special book seduces you to read. Reading in a book thus becomes practical or literally tangible. Books and bookstores are places where this is possible. There are places where our children can experience and experience the magic of reading and access to literature directly. I'm sure that would be much more difficult on any anonymous online pages. But not only that: Our books, as well as the bookstores, make an irreplaceable contribution through additional commitment so that reading can be experienced by as many people in Austria as possible. This is particularly true of young people and children, for example in early childhood support, for example through cooperation with schools, kindergartens and the like. Many communities already carry out book and reading promotions. Think of Vienna's great action A STADT. A BOOK.- Oh, my God! A book is placed at the heart of public interest and hundreds of thousands of copies of such a book are distributed. Bookstores and books have this task of focusing the book all year round. It is therefore very important that in the 2017 Kulturbudget, funds are available again to expand the offers of the bookshops and to be able to award a bookstore prize next year, with which we want to support five particularly creative and dedicated bookshops with €10,000 each. So we want to make clear how important our business is in the inner cities and their commitment to education, culture and literature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14835	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Alm. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14857	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear Dieter Brosz! Now I have spoken again because, thanks to your comments on the ORF, I wanted to add something more. I think we need to distinguish three areas of problem in the field of ORF. The one major problem is the party-political influence in the ORF, and I think we agree with the Greens and also with the ORF Council of Editors that there is a serious change in order to push back this party-political influence. The second point concerns the content and the third point concerns financing. The second point is that of the content: I think we have a massive problem here. We're talking about TV and radio. We're talking about it as if it were a constant in the media market. - That's not the case. We have whole generations that no longer consume the ORF – the generations already have names: Generation X, Y, and then probably will come as a logical consequence generation Z – which televisions just don't consume anymore. The average age for ORF broadcasts or messages is, in part, 55 plus. The ORF is trapped in a structure in which the ranges decline. The ORF tries to cope with this decline in range even by self-splitting. I think that's the wrong way. We need to modernize the ORF, convert it into a public-value content production house and ensure distribution with other channels. With other channels, however, the ORF also means that of course the channels can also modernize and maintain themselves – only those it needs. This expansion of public value and this recovery of reach over modern communication channels is once to be seen independently of the funding, and there may be more constructive discussions in this respect than we are currently conducting them. In the area of financing: I have already criticized the broadcasting charges collected through the GIS. The GIS is above all not one: Above all, it is not perfectly safe, because fixing this tax on the receiver simply leads to people paying this fee that doesn't use the ORF at all, or that people use the ORF and don't pay this fee any more. That's not right. That means you have to think about something else. What can you think about? – You can think about privatising the ORF. By the way, we don't want to. You can think of crushing him, liquidating him. We don't want to do that either. You can also consider introducing a new tax, a media levy or a budget levy. That would be a not at all unreasonable approach. In such a media charge one could also pack something like the storage media remuneration, the private copy remuneration – that is, to solve several things at a time. We're just not the big fans of new taxes. That means: We don't want new taxes, we don't want budget taxes. We say: It is much more sensible to place these posts in the budget, which at the same time is a confession to the fact that as a democracy we also want to afford public-value content. All right, now, of course, I understand the argument that we have to negotiate within the budget. Yes, other resorts also have to negotiate. The education sector must negotiate, the defence sector must negotiate – all ministries must negotiate with the Finance Minister. It is, I believe, only worthy and right that the ORF does, especially since it would not even have to negotiate directly, but could get this money distributed via media promotion Newly through an independent third place. As long as the ORF is influenced by state ownership and, so to speak, by the government, there will never be complete independence. As I said, I consider a body reform to be the most useful way to free the ORF from this influence. I hope you can discuss the other things in a matter of fact. It is not a question of destroying the ORF, but rather of destroying it in the opposite direction. part: We want to get the relevance of this important public-law media house.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14920	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Doorer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14941	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! On Art and Culture 2017: We will increase the funds for art and culture by € 13 million in the 2017 budget. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Among the winners of this increase in the cultural budget is also the House of History Austria. The House of History Austria is to be a place of Austrian culture of memory on the one hand, and, of course, it is about the mediation of history on the other. It is important to confront young people with history – with Austrian, with European history. I am glad that a common path of all museums to split places in the New Castle has now been found in the realization of the project. The collection of old musical instruments will also come at its expense, the rooms can be essentially preserved and the museum will also be modernised. The project, initiated by Minister of Art and Culture Ostermayer, is now also receiving the appropriate attention from Federal Minister Drozda and is now entering the realization phase. The Heroes Square and the Neue Burg are magical places of Austrian history, they are also essential places of construction culture. On the topic of construction culture there is also another gratifying point in the 2017 budget: The Federal Ministry of Justice will be able to rehabilitate Simmering. That's most gratifying! It's a Renaissance castle, but it's a detention centre. Finally, the so-called Zöglingskrekt was no longer inhabitable, now it is rehabilitated, prisons are created in the sense of a modern sentence. The Simmering Justice Centre is well-known for its very modern resocialisation projects and for its very practical vocational training so that prisoners have a good chance to be socialized again after their re-start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e14982	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15003	Madam President. Yes, a debate lives on part and vice. I have now listened to Niko Alm again, but I am not quite sure if I understand something wrong or if the position has changed, but perhaps we can clarify this, namely the ORF and the question: Should the ORF continue to be privatized? What's that supposed to look like? I always reaped violent headshaking at the NEOS, when I formulated that apparently the program or the idea is that the ORF is very much privatized or should not exist. I just want to explain where I got that from. I checked again on the homepage of Niko Alm, the media speaker of NEOS. If you read there, you will find a contribution – there there are two data: 5. ==References== August 2015, but no matter what, I think, it will still vote – in the ‘NCZ’ under the title: “Let’s take the ORF apart.” At the first quote, I admit, I wasn't quite sure if I could interpret it correctly, there's inside: “The ORF is gradually disintegrated vertically in the value chain as a result of a new media promotion and converted into a provider of public value.” That was, honestly, a little too complicated to me, but that will become even clearer, and there are two things that, I think, it will bring to the point. Maybe that changed, I don't know, but that's the position I'm going to assume. There it says: “To this end, it is not necessary to operate a transmitter including production and distribution equipment; it would be sufficient to finance the editorial staff to the extent that public-law content is produced.” In the next sentence or a little further below it is even more obvious: “The ORF produces public value. The distribution is done by private individuals.” When I read this through, I don't know where the ORF is, because the concept clearly says: It doesn't need the ORF as a television station anymore, but it obviously needs someone who pays the editors. Apparently what they deliver is so much here that someone buys it. There's also a public funding inside. Is it possible to access it free of charge? It says that it no longer needs the ORF – that in a country like Austria, where there are private stations that are built up in terms of access numbers, but where there is no comparable offer like the ORF. Mr Strolz has made the call: Comparison with Sweden! – I like to compare with Germany or Switzerland. In Germany, the revenue from broadcasting charges is €8 billion, not just tenfold, but more than tenfold, in which the number of channels is not the same. In Switzerland the fees are about twice as high. This can be argued from me with the wage level, but it shows that it is at least comparable. The model to say, so to speak, in the German-speaking surrounding area: In Austria, we don't need public-law broadcasting anymore!, I simply can't understand that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15054	I do not have any further comments to make. The consultations on this theme block have thus ended. [[15:06:22]] UG 13: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15076	We come to the negotiation of Division 13: Justice. The first to speak is Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15100	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now arrived in the case of the division of justice. In advance, one must also say here that we have a well-functioning judicial system, a well-functioning rule of law. This should be recognized and said at this point. Nevertheless, there is, of course, criticism. This discussion serves to highlight how things work and, above all, how financial circumstances are. It must be noted that we in Austria have extremely high court fees in relation to other countries. It is true that, apart from the judicial guard, our justice is covered by the prisons, if you want to do so, by the fees of 135 percent. This means that the costs of the courts are covered by court fees to 135 percent. This is not, of course, a proper fee, because a fee is something for which you receive a service. If such a misunderstanding exists, then the ultimately hidden taxes are. In particular – and this accounts for 80 percent of all revenue – this concerns the basic book entry fees. If you claim the right of ownership in the basic book, 1 per cent of the purchase price – and that may be a few thousand euros – or 1.2 per cent of the pledge amount – will be raised for a performance that is undoubtedly very important, but in no relation to the fee. These are actually hidden taxes. I understand: The state wants to take money, needs the money and so on, I'm absolutely clear. But this is really intrusive and does not fit if you act as if there were a corresponding counter-performance, and thus over-financed the judicial system. Finally, the budget is fed. - That's our criticism. This, of course, also makes it difficult for access to justice. In recent years – and this must be recognized – Minister Brandstetter has also made a great effort to search through and see where the fees are particularly problematic. In family law, for example, we have found that some men or women, mothers or fathers could no longer afford to apply to see their children because these fees were so exorbitant. In this area, thanks be to God for changes. Something has already happened, but in fact it is necessary to continue. It has also been announced that the fees will be evaluated. It is also our firm wish that this should be continued so as not to make it unnecessary for people to have access to the law and thus to finance the budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to address a second subject, because I also have a motion for a resolution: Of course, an essential problem – as colleagues will talk about it – is the really overcrowded or full prisons with all the problems that this causes, with the aggression that exists there, with the problem of further radicalization taking place in prison. We note that people of an incredible number of nationalities are represented in our prisons and that these people with nationality are more than half of the prisoners in prisons. I think people from 86 nations are currently sitting in the Grey House. This may be a disaster for someone who knows how great God is, but in reality it is a disaster, because it burdens us and only creates problems. In this context, it would be important to make it possible to increase the penalty of foreign nationals abroad. There are already approaches to this, which would save us massive costs. The people who have a foreign citizenship should be imprisoned in their home countries. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15187	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15606	Next is Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15627	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! “Whoever has achieved all his goals has probably too low a choice.” – Herbert von Karajan said that. He's right! The objectives, particularly the objectives of the judicial system, are high. Legal certainty and legal peace in a state to guarantee in Austria is a very high The aim and can, of course, be achieved in different ways. The same applies, as we have just heard, of course also to the high objective: Access to jurisdiction for all – as we have already put in place reform measures, of course there are still some – and also for the purpose of effect: fair procedures for all; this is a very important issue. We're on a good path, the goals are high. We have already implemented 40 legislative projects in this legislative period: quite, very essential legislative projects, from criminal law reform to inheritance reform to copyright. The next major legislative reforms are under way, and the budget must provide for them. We want to see it at the next meeting of the Committee on Justice on 6 June. In December 2016, a new, improved leniency regime was adopted. We have carried out the preparations for adult protection law, beginning with the discussion in our survey committee “Word at the end of life” to this day, incredibly intensive. Preparations have been completed, and it is now necessary to implement them accordingly, to discuss organisational, technical and, above all, financial conditions and to ensure them. Ladies and gentlemen! Last week in the Committee on Budgets, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, on a subject that is very important to me, namely the issue of the implementation of measures, gave us the prospect of sending a draft opinion to the Committee on Budgetary Control in December. I believe that, especially in this area, improvement measures are extremely important for a more humane criminal action and that we can also benefit from financial resources through a concentration of locations, because the exploitation of free spaces is a way of bringing this project into reality accordingly. On the aggressive potential in prisons: In recent times, we have been able to obtain protective vests for our judicial guards from a special budget. With further precautions, we must stop attacks on our guards. We will also implement this by means of a legal regulation – with the intensification of the criminal record in the case of attacks against police officers and law enforcement officers. To the establishment plan, let me say briefly: We increase the number of judicial guards in our prisons, and we ensure that no cuts are made on judges so that the procedures can be implemented in the planned, shortest possible time. We are in the forefront of Europe. Our budget is small, but fine: € 1.4 billion in total. That is 1.8% of total budget expenditure, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister of Justice has lived in recent years to see how he manages to make the best use of the funds. Optimal use of funds is one thing. I would like to thank all the workers in the field of justice at this point, because only their personal commitment will make it possible to make good use of these funds for justice and citizens in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! We still have a lot of things to do, the projects are big, they cost money. We are fighting with the Minister for Sustainable Budgets. We want justice in our country to be strong and modern – for the benefit of people. The schedule is fixed. Ladies and gentlemen, after the decision-making process, it is going to be implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15690	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15712	Ladies and gentlemen! The judicial budget is characterised by a peculiarity when it has a very high revenue-based budgeting effect. Hardly any ministry takes as much as the Ministry of Justice and thus covers its own expenditure. That is a reason: the high revenue from fees and penalties. This sounds very gratifying now, but if you look at these figures more closely, you can see that the fees are taken by €300 million more than the courts actually have in cost. If you know that the court fees are actually provided for the rights seekers to receive a benefit on the other hand, then, of course, this creates a disproportionate relationship because the rights seekers pay more than they end up receiving equivalent compensation for the fees. Now you can say: My goodness, it is for the justice of another place!, but it is already a problem, because the logical consequence would be a reduction in fees in order to remove obstacles to access to justice. This is not possible, however, because the judicial system needs this cross-financing from the charges in other areas, such as criminal enforcement. This is an obvious abuse in the judicial budget, which has a cause: This is because very, very little resources from the general budget, i.e. from tax revenue, are budgeted for justice. In other words, the pressure to keep the fees high is great, because otherwise there is a gap in the judicial budget, which the Minister of Finance does not want to cover with other means of taxation. Let us look at how much percentage of their budget the justice itself generates! It is 75 percent, and only 25 percent of the budget comes from general funding. [[Abg. Steinbichler:... the fees are too high!]] – The fees are too high, that is the logical conclusion, and the low financial resources – I have said that – lead to the pressure to keep the fees high. But there is an additional compartment: In reality, fees serve as a kind of cashcow for the general budget. 2016 are – Mr Minister, correct If the number is wrong, I remember it – €164 million from the Justice budget into the general budget, as justice reserves were dissolved at the time of operation of the Minister of Finance – deposits that were usually formed by higher fees and have otherwise stopped budget holes. Next year, 2017 the Minister of Finance is again taking part in the judicial budget by securing the cartel penalties. That means that this money is in the end missing the judicial budget again. Of course, it is difficult to use fees and penalties as a cashcow to stop financial holes and budget holes. As a result, in the current budget, you, Mr Minister, also need to dissolve reserves so that you can finance current operations. I also find that problematic, because reserves can be resolved once, twice, but at the latest in 2019, if not already 2018, you will no longer be able to resolve deposits as there will no longer be any deposits. At the latest, there will be an even more massive financing problem in the judicial budget. I regret this resolution because you have announced that you want to dissolve deposits, but that you want to start a construction offensive in the execution of the sentence. Now this may also be the case in this budget, but I do not actually see the great construction offensive. However, the construction offensive would be necessary if one looked at the situation in the execution of the sentence. Most of the Austrian judicial institutions are old monasteries, which have never been designed as penitentiaries and are actually completely unsuitable for a modern sentence. That is why we have massive problems in the judicial institutions. We've got an overcrowding. We have high inclusion times. Due to the high inclusion times – it has already been said – we have relatively many seizures. We have a very low psychiatric supply. We have a low level of employment. Now you can say: Okay, what interests the taxpayers, they don't want to spend much on the execution. – It must never be forgotten, however, that a high-quality execution of penalties is the best contribution to the resocialisation and thus a low likelihood of relapse also benefits citizens. I do not see this construction offensive in a large style, if you look at the Austrian judicial institutions, in a five- or ten-year plan. Perhaps you are planning it, but I do not see the budget resources for it when reserves are dissolved by the Minister of Finance or when you have to resort to reserves. Therefore, I think that this budgeting creates major problems in the medium term and it is not acceptable that the judicial budget, the revenue will succeed – which is good – as a cashcow. All in all, Parliament is always argued: The entire budget is driven by the idea of creating more security. I see only a massive misunderstanding, because the police and the federal army spend the money relatively loose. The military wind music is made again in full man's strength – if that strengthens the subjective or objective sense of security, please! [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God!]] I have heard that in the area of the police people are being thought of setting up police music chapels so that they can spend the money in the security offensive. Only one area didn't get anything, and that's the execution of punishment. No cent of this security offensive goes into execution, although there is a massive need for action there. Especially from the point of view of Syria returnees and jihadism, there is an urgent need for action, because there is a group of people who need to pay increased attention – the word radicalization – by doing deradization work and prevention work, so that the prisons do not become a hotspot of jihadists. You've completely forgotten that! Okay, Interior Minister Sobotka founded police music chapels, which is his security priority. [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes, hello!]] I'd rather have seen the money in penitentiary. “Yes, hello!” I also find the call from my colleague from the ÖVP perfectly correct. No one understands that one is setting up a police music chapel, while the execution of the sentence does not get anything, although we know that especially in the field of jihadists prison biographies are crucial to the restructuring of such ter-rogroups. But that doesn't interest anyone, because the execution of the penalty is just less popular than when the police music marches through Austria's towns. Mr. Justice Minister! I have to thank you for your efforts on many points. I just think that this budget will be a problem for you in the medium term, because I do not see the construction offensive nor, if you need to resolve reserves now, a longer-term assurance of this in itself very high quality standards. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15780	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. I'd like to set you up for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15801	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I should like to start by starting with a rather inconvenient circumstance, to inform you about it and to ask for a solidarity action by our colleagues, also with our Federal Minister and with all those who have been trying for over three years to establish an adult protection law with which to help the poorest of the poor. We all know the problem, that's going on among the officers, the people who are in charge of it. Many have this in their own family, many know it from other areas and know that there is this topic. Many colleagues in the field of justice have been working together with the Ministry of Justice in recent years to find a very good solution, and I think we have also achieved it. However, I am now experiencing my great astonishment that in the last Council of Ministers this matter, which was ready for submission, simply and simply did not come on the agenda. I think you just can't accept that. I also believe – as Mr Steinacker has already said – that it is not acceptable that it is unacceptable, that the poorest of the poor are simply and simply not to consider. The musical chapels in the individual federal states are certainly something fine, not a question, but if you have to assess now whether you can help those who are at the border of control or are already in charge – after the current term – to live with more decision-making self-management, then this is in the foreground. I think it is a truly cross-party call that we sit together and make it easy, no matter what. In any case, Parliament cannot accept that we simply cannot enforce it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] - Thank you. Otherwise, my contribution to further useful measures, which could also lead to savings in the field of justice, is once again the collective/pattern complaint – as you may call it. Mr. Federal Minister, there is a working group, and I would like to ask you with all my heart, that we see that the working group does not work until the end of the legislative period, because we have experienced it since 2006. There are really proposals for very massive savings from the judiciary, from many areas that are completely beyond any suspicion that it is somehow not quite fair practices. We can achieve reductions, procedural reductions, mergers through this collective action/pattern action in many procedures. Where central legal questions are actually the subject of a number of proceedings, why these procedures are not resolved, they can then be brought together to the Supreme Court, to a decision-making process similar to § 54 of the Labour and Social Affairs Committee. Law of the Court of Justice. This, of course, also means a much accelerated legal process and legal peace-making. I don't think you should leave that out of your mind and see that we're going to get on with it. The calculation should not aim at the legislative period, but at what is really necessary. We already have a lot of models, a lot of international experiences, and we should no longer be behind them. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister of Justice, to support this together with all of us. The fact that the cartels are no longer in the judicial budget is a fact of which one can say: It's actually not really satisfactory. I think it's important to see what this amount is used for. Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who know of you, of the states that partly rule with the police, especially in the case of economic crime prosecutions, where you actually need high technology and where you see that it is sometimes not possible to have on a floor those PCs and printers that are necessary and who are a matter of course in every third-class law firm, who also knows that it is necessary to use the funds that come from the cartel area also for such measures and in the VKI. I can assure you, Mr Minister, and also ask you to contribute to the use, in the area of crime tracking, especially in the case of economic crime, of the funds that have been released for the Minister of Finance, for useful things, but not for the prevention of the Adult Protection Act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15863	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15884	Madam President. Federal Minister! We have already heard that the justice budget, with its €1.4 billion, is not very high and is only just 1.9 percent of the total budget. But that must not conceal the central importance it has. It is true that the level of the rule of law and the guarantee of fundamental and human rights are very closely related to the question of how much money we spend on justice and how it is used accordingly. That is why, unfortunately, I find it particularly difficult that every year – always when we discuss the budget in the field of justice – we do not really know whether it will keep that way and whether it really represents reality. I may perhaps quote Parliament's budget service in this context, and he writes again this year: Both the payments and the payments in the UG 13, justice, have been too small for several years, so a comparison of the Federal Estimate 2017 with the Federal Estimate 2016 is only of minor power to state. Although we now hope that there have been improvements in budgeting, a certain amount of scepticism remains. We know that we really have to wait for the next pedestal cleaning. Federal Minister! You did the same thing in the Committee on Budgets last year: They have essentially said that the Minister of Finance is responsible for this. – I see that the Minister for Finance has an essential responsibility, but it is nevertheless more important to the judicial system. ministry to try to achieve more precise budgeting with appropriate experience, so that we can discuss better here too. A second point which has already been raised, in particular by colleagues Stefan, but also by colleagues Steinhauser, is the court fees. It is true that this year the Austrian judicial system will take almost € 1 billion and a non-insignificant part of it will be the judicial fees, i.e. fees imposed on the seeking population by a very disproportionate burden. We also know that we have been shot out of court fees for a long time and compared to football, where we are probably not going to be European champions so soon, in court fees at least. We also know that something has already gone on. I also recognise that, but we know that these fees are in no way in relation to the actual effort. Mr. Stefan has just said that they are probably hidden taxes. I believe, however, that the main problem is that they are hidden taxes and are not in proportion, they are probably also unconstitutional and therefore have to be dealt with quickly. We all know why they are so high – that has already been mentioned by Mr Steinhauser – because we are trying to achieve the overall budget in some way in the final effect and to stop budget holes. But that's not exactly what court fees are for! You're by no means in favour of stopping budget holes. Of course it is that if you are looking for your right to charge, but the fees are not there to stop a general budget hole. That's why, Minister, here's my usual appeal to you: Let us see that we are getting hold of this unbearable situation permanently and permanently, because the right-wing people in Austria are at least served with it!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15939	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e15961	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Justitia, the goddess Justitia, is well-known for three features: first, the binding of the eyes for neutrality, second, the balance of justice, and third, the sword of law enforcement. If I have now listened to the speakers of the opposition, I must say that they hide the execution and therefore come to a cover of 130 percent. If we don't hide the execution, then we only come to a 70 percent coverage level. That alone shows how important it is that we see Justitia with the sword, even with the enforcement of law. I would like to address this a little on the current occasion, because a few days ago, on the occasion of this beating video, the Federal Chancellor himself wrote on his Facebook page that the perpetrators will not escape their punishments. Ladies and gentlemen, this video has been terrifying for many, perhaps because we have hidden violence within our society. That is why I have also found it very good that the Federal Chancellor has given an opinion on this. It was terrifying because of violence as such; it was terrifying because young people used violence against young people and because it was still seen millions of times on the Internet. Many have also wondered why this has stood in there for so long. But what really is the reason for taking it out? – Finally, the victim protection. If you are golfing, you will find several hit videos in which the victim has been unmistakable. If we really wanted to make sure that something like that comes out immediately, then finally we would have to introduce a censorship authority, which, I think, we all don't want. We have to believe that there is also this violence, that Justitia has to turn to the sword here as well, and that in such a case there must be enforcement. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, the second sentence of our constitution is: “Your right goes from the people” – this people regains their right, and it comes to self-justice. The Minister of Justice just whispered to me: Tacitus quote. I have, of course, taken to heart the criticism in your last speech and have chosen an appropriate one. Tacitus says – and that fits, I think, here: Sometimes, “more sinning than by hardness is done. ” I believe that this is true not only in this particular case, but also in the case of justice as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16000	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16021	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to refer briefly to the previous speaker concerning court fees: Our group is also aware of these high court fees. “The Murmeltier greets every day” – every year, I can say, we draw attention to the fact that these court fees are too high. Mr. Vetter! One would have to add something to these utensils, which Justitia already has with him in Austria, namely, a ring bag. That might be the right symbol, the Austrian symbol, because the people first have to throw something in so that the Justitia does something at all. That's how you could interpret it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I believe that the court fees are far too high, Mr Minister, and this is always evident. It should be possible for anyone to come to court without having to look at the financial conditions. Some of these court fees – Mr Stefan mentioned this – are taken, in the case of basic book entries and so on, again stick to those who may have been a bit sparse and have something. In my opinion, it is the wrong way to continue screwing up the charges. So you could go down a little bit. Nowadays, it is not so easy to buy a property, build a house or save something. This is a bit difficult for these taxes, which the state prescribes. I don't think you should cash more than is absolutely necessary. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What concerns me, Minister of State, are the ongoing attacks on judicial enforcement agencies. In recent times, the media have been full of it, about the Josefstadt with the fire, where the Syrian has lit the cells. I think there were eight – or were there ten? – injured law enforcement officers. We remember the Chechen rapists of a Turkish student at Prater. They then went to the law enforcement officer and injured them. They're not isolated, they're getting more and more. If I hear that about 80 nationalities or more are in our judicial enforcement institutions, I think that's what I'm thinking. When I hear – and I'm talking about the executive also with judicial officers – that for many who sit there, the conditions in the judicial enforcement institutions in Austria, in the prisons, a luxury to the home, to those who are at home, I have to say: We also need to consider whether this is at all still dissuasive and a real punishment. Ladies and gentlemen! A subject that always moves me is family jurisdiction. I believe that reforms are urgently needed in this area. We have many rules here, which are already very, very outdated and which appeal to old directives. Mr Minister, you said yourself – and that gives me a little thought – when we talked about the subject – I hope I can quote what you said here – the family jurisdiction does not really want to make anyone, and that is why the boys always come to the train, which may have little experience of life or too little experience of life. That's what gives me to think. Perhaps one should look at it and occupy the family jurisdiction, at least part of it, with experienced judges to perhaps bring more life or reality into this jurisdiction. I think we could prevent some of the problems we have in this area, and follow-up problems. Another topic that moves me, Minister: Conspiracy processes. We have had the case in Graz and now again recently, in which the judge has completely abolished the eight-to-zero judgment. I think there is also a need for reform in jury jurisdiction. I think it's good that we have lay judges that the sworn processes also take place, but I think a corresponding professional companion would be no disadvantage. So with me, you're running open doors in this direction when you're reforming. We recently had a discussion in the criminal court – Mr Jarolim was there too – where, in my opinion, there have been very serious arguments for rethinking the jury's jurisdiction, or also for how to reform it in order to achieve good quality again. What gave me the most to think about was the point that a lawyer who was also present there – a very well-known lawyer – said: The problem is that many oaths are apologised for in a certain higher position, which are accordingly professionally engaged, and then come again and again and again, those who “have nothing else to do” in part – under quotation marks. He also talked about the quality of the oaths, which gives me a little to think about. That is why I think we should consider how people's jurisdiction, lay jurisdiction can be designed in such a way that, as far as possible, all levels of society can be found in it. This is an important point that I wanted to draw your attention to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16085	Next, Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16106	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft for the field of justice is, above all, a commitment to a modern, powerful rule of law and the rule of law. Institutions. The Austrian courts treat more than three million cases each year at four organisational levels. These cases concern most of the issues of execution, followed by basic and company book entries; Criminals are more subordinated. Half of the expenditure in the field of justice is staff expenditure. It is gratifying that more than 1,000 people will be added to the Executive Service for 2017 and more than half could be stopped. Access to the right should be open to all, regardless of the place of residence, income of the family or the individual possibilities of time. At this point I would like to address a point that I consider critical, since it was not sufficiently taken into account in the budgetary commitment of the Ministry of Justice in conjunction with the federal states, in my view at least: I refer to the extension of the conciliation bodies in the area of rental rights. The conciliation bodies offer an opportunity to resolve conflicts of law, unbureaucratic and free of charge in the extradition procedure. They're in front of the courts, but they're not binding either. In court, you have to deposit €78 in cash payments before the start of the proceedings before the court's machinery is even attacked. The conciliation bodies have highly qualified experts and, of course, very much relieve national administration and justice. They are mainly concerned with the maintenance/improvement work and the review of the main interest rate, i.e. all areas of the out-of-court procedure in the rental law. In Klagenfurt, St. Pölten, Stockerau, Neunkirchen, Linz, Graz, Leoben, Mürzzuschlag, Vienna, Salzburg and Innsbruck, there are 11 centres of constituency, which benefit from it, but all other parts of Austria are disadvantaged. The government programme is intended to extend the conciliation bodies across borders. And I would like to recall this in the context of this budget debate, and finally there would be much to gain for the budget, but nothing to lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16154	Next, Mr Brückl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16176	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As we have already heard several times today, not only is Parliament's budget service exercised, but Members of this House are also criticising the judicial budget with regard to the principle of budgetary truth, since both payments and disbursements have been budgeted too low for years. Unfortunately, this leaves comparisons in the budget scarcely to or is the power of statement very low, which is a shame, because it would be a very effective controlling to assume that you are actually budgeting almost the numbers that will then be achieved. That is, as has been said, very bad. A few words on impact orientation: The objective of effectiveness in the field of justice has been defined by ensuring the organisational, human and substantive conditions for orderly legal enforcement and enforcement by the judicial administration. – The key figures given above have been achieved in principle, if one looks at the appeal rate of the judicial ombudspersons, at least at the target value for 2017 the point should be slipped. I would like to highlight the number of district courts with fewer than four judges. This is due to you, Mr Federal Minister, since you are always stressing and stressing that in the foreseeable future there will be no further court rulings or mergers, which we also strongly support. However, I think that this figure is not very valid in view of this hardly happening change. This would be a far more significant feature of the team assistance, but also the created service centre or the electronic act under test, the key to justice 3.0, would be better suited to future development and would also be more meaningful if one had a little effect on the duration of the procedure. A keyword is also the structural optimization in the court organisation, which is set out in effect Objective 4. Structural optimization means quick decisions, rapid legal certainty, and this is good for the right-looking population and the economy. It also means having as few interfaces as possible and only short files within the organisation, and it also means clear and good representation arrangements for employees. If you look at the planning list, you can see that there is a minimum reduction in the number of planning sites as a whole. Mr Federal Minister, we only decided here in the House two weeks ago to amend the law on law enforcement, which, among other things, brought about a shift in competence in the field of non-controversies. This means that competences are shifted from the judges to the lawyers. An opinion has also been received in the course of the review. I think it was the Oberlandesgericht Graz, which informed us that more than 60 lawyers are already missing in the field of extradition. When the Committee was asked She said that there would be no additional staff at present to look at this first. It is also right to look at this first, but I would like to point out already – especially in this context – that law enforcement training takes three or five years, depending on where you recruit the staff. That's why you should have an eye on it. Mr Federal Minister, I can conclude by saying that everything stands and falls with the employees in the field of the courts. Well-trained and well-motivated employees are essential. There should therefore be no further staff savings in your area in the future. You yourself have also repeatedly stressed that you will no longer carry this. There must be no bottlenecks in training, neither with judicial staff nor with non-judicial staff. And, as I have already mentioned, we should also examine the key figures once again, even in view of the fact that the development will be another one in the future, the key word Justice 3.0.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16221	Next, Mr Magistrate. Big deal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16242	Madam President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The independence of justice is one of the most important objectives of all Western democracies. Today we are talking about the budget and therefore also about the independence of justice in budget issues, which is one of the most important objectives of today. The division of justice has a multiple special position. As already discussed, there is hardly any area in which the level of self-financing is so high: It is about 80 percent. On the other side On the other hand, one finds another characteristic: the sub-budgetation carried out in the past. This means that both revenue and expenditure were too low, and therefore comparability is not given. This should be largely or in fact adjusted with the current pedestal rehabilitation in order to make it clear to the judiciary in this budget. A innovation is that particularly changing revenue, especially through cartel penalties, no longer comes directly into the judicial area, which has different effects. So far, we have been able to do away with deposits if there are particularly high penalties, but that will be lost in the future. We must therefore consider in the medium term how things that have been financed so far from reserves can be financed. The reserves are currently being dissolved, as structural measures are to be taken in the future in particular in criminal execution. In criminal proceedings, our Minister has a social and at the same time economic approach: By pursuing reasonable economic activities, prisoners are on the one hand produced products to be sold via the new homepage, and on the other hand they are encouraged to re-socialise and train prisoners, while at the same time helping to cover a promille rate of self-financing. The future in the execution of the penalty will look like the best way to use the funds, the reasonable use of working time, the creation of economically productive activities, so that something is done for the resocialisation of the people, and so all of them will contribute to the state together. In this sense, I hope that we can do something in the execution of the sentence in such a way that the own funding rate is further expanded, because the fees are partly too high, as already mentioned. What I like is that we have already done socially justified reductions in fees this year. There will be further measures in this area. Access to justice is given in Austria. There are international comparisons that show that there are no special events here that would cause one to say that one would not be entitled to his right. That is why the way is right, and we must see that the independence of justice is also guaranteed in budgetary terms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16285	Next, Mr Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16306	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A day of imprisonment costs the Austrian taxpayer 123 €. That means 123 € a day costs a prisoner. When you get here, how many prisoners are in the judicial institutions and how long they stay in them, you get a very nice sum. Federal Minister! You have pointed out to us in the committee and also in the security report that you are working to ensure that many of these prisoners can spend their time abroad, for a particular reason – my previous speakers have already said it –: The prisoners now come from many different nations, and 62 percent of the newly detained are not from Austria. Make So you keep going! This is a good way to get rid of the Austrian taxpayer a little of these costs. We have been pointing out this problem for a long time, and precisely the fact that 62 percent of the new prisoners are not Austrians leads to the problems, to the increased attacks on judicial guards. Every day, when you hit the paper, you read more about this subject. And now this is also reflected in the budget: more planning positions, strong West. . We say thank you, because it is important that we protect those who hold their heads for us every day. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] But I would like to point out one thing – Mrs Steinacker has already said that we will punish attacks on executive officials –: In the course of the 2015 criminal reform, I have made exactly this request here in the House, namely that attacks and threats against executive officials, but also experts, witnesses and non-judicial and judicial staff, who are also exposed to these attacks and threats, are punished accordingly. Today I opened the paper and read that witnesses were threatened in a Vienna Mafia trial. This clearly shows how important it is that we finally take action in this area. I would have preferred that this would have been enforced already in 2015 when I made this request, but unfortunately it was voted down by the government parties at the time, but at least now it should be so far. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Dangerous threats are already punishable!]] – I meant punishment increases at the time, Mr. Cot. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, we are a reliable partner when it comes to, as initially announced, protecting those who protect us daily. Let's do something together for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16355	Mr Feichtinger came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16376	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, we are discussing today a judicial budget for the year 2017 without too big surprises, the height has already been mentioned several times, it is € 1.4 billion. The debate both in the Committee and here in plenary has shown that the issues are repeated. From my point of view, it should be noted that there are some increases in the efficiency of the budget, in the field of new law firm systems, in the area of restructuring of administrative activities in mutual representations, the key word team assistance. Federal Minister! They have also pointed out in the Committee – Mr Schrangl mentioned earlier the issue of detention costs – that in the case of detention costs there are also structural measures, investments included in the average calculation, and that a certain project stand has been completed in the field of detention centres in recent years and that new projects are, as it were, also in the tube, but there is also a need to resolve reserves, which will no longer be available from 2018 onwards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] In the field of planning sites in the executive area, I see as positive that there is an increase in planning points. However, you have also pointed out that the full capacity of these posts is not possible, as it applies to applications. Empty. There may be the possibility of an initiative to motivate more people to be interested in the field of justice. Mr Minister, you answered a lot of questions in the Committee on Budgets and showed us very profound knowledge. At this point, I would just like to make a few more reforms that move across the judicial area, in the Act of Action, in the area of collective action, in the field of maintenance advance. The subject of court fees has already been mentioned by several colleagues, also in connection with access to law. Mr Vetter has previously noted the characteristics of Justitia in person, so to speak. – Minister of State! Mr Jarolim has already mentioned that the Adult Protection Act has already been negotiated that it would be introduced. We have heard that the Federal Minister for Finance does not want to release the funds for this at the moment. I'd ask you: Take up the sword of Justitia, pick up a sign and you will be in the best sense of the word for the patron of these people, because I believe we need this law; this has only positive effects, and the money for it will probably still be possible for the Minister of Justice to play the Minister of Finance with the sword Justitias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16427	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16449	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Justice! High house! The judicial budget comes back every year. I see four for this budget or four for justice in prison, we say, construction sites. You can say that, I think, without further ado. And this new budget for 2017 has not changed much. The first construction site is the staff: In 2016 it was 3 292, 2017: 3 323, which is just a plus of 31 judicial guards for 2017. Mr. Federal Minister, do you know what I notice? Always between 30 and 35, continue to write planning posts. It seems to me to be with the objectives of action. There's a number coming and you're going to write them on. Do you know what the Crux is all about? That these always do not arrive between 30 and 35 in the service level – and these are the actual officials. It's always a beautiful March with which I finally have to clean up in this high house: It is a pleasure to see the increase in the number of posts, but there are no equal numbers of officials. A planning site is on the paper. Paper is well known to be patient, as you can write down numbers such as 200 or 100; but if the budget cover is not there, these planning sites remain free and are pushed on. That's how it looks, that's reality. Let us talk about reality, let us give ourselves pure wine, and let us not always rejoice at the gifts found on paper, but not in reality! Next is the implementation of measures. Mr. Federal Minister, the implementation of measures has been an important issue for you for three years. This was very credible for all opposition parties until you started to implement the measures for mentally abnormal incompetents according to § 21 para. 1 StGB and those for accountable persons according to § 21 para. 2 StGB to mix. Now see, suddenly one hears again and again the show project Asten. I'm right with you, Asten is a show project; but you know very well that in Asten there is a predominance in the inside of the care, while the institution is outside It is the responsibility of the judicial authority to ensure that the security of justice is guaranteed. This, of course, works quite well, but of course not with all spiritual norms. Now I note with regret that at the Göllersdorf Court of Justice, which is a special concern to me – to you, too, we have visited them together – there is always a doctor who is not aware that those who are in Asten for the execution of the sentence or for the arrest – that is the right word – are not able to find themselves in Göllersdorf. Now I don't understand why you're so excited about it. It starts with 1. January 2017 a project in Göllersdorf. One doctor with the doctor according to § 21 para. 1 StGB Incarcerated always sickly and now wants to do more or less an asten 2 in Göllersdorf. I do not understand that, because in Göllersdorf exactly those who are not suitable to stop in Asten are stopped. We know the objectives of this project. Projects cost money, projects cost time, projects cost resources. We'll get together with projects. I am thinking of the evaluation of the 2014 implementation of measures you have sought. What has been implemented so far? The new budget will not be able to implement much. You also read the paper and you are a real-life-thinking person, Mr. Federal Minister, I know you. You will know that this project from January 2017 will not even be finalized, as we have new elections before. So why start projects if you don't know what that makes sense? Again, Minister of State: Our main problem lies in the implementation of measures according to § 21 para. 2 StGB. They're getting more and more, they're the executioners, they're getting more and more in the convictions. According to § 21 para. 2 StGB Inmates, the mentally outlawed, are very probably accountable. They're getting more and more, and you're actually hearing relatively little. A construction site is also, as I have already told you in connection with the budget, the Pavilion 23. You know, if you already deal with the subject of § 21 para. 1 StGB, then one should deal with Vienna, namely that at the Baumgartnerhöhe the Pavilion 23 will be in a two-year history for the judicial guard, the judicial guard must go out from there and lose these 20 detention or therapy sites, depending on how one wants to name them. You don't hear about it either. Another very important issue: We have a lot of Islamists in the judicial institutions, but 54 sit as classed radical Islamists. Mr. Federal Minister, I have to tell you, they're mixed across. There are also young people who are in a relaxed youth penitentiary. I do not think this is necessarily very state-bearing or good if radical Islamists are stopped in loose execution. Something has to come to your mind. Something has to happen. From the judicial institutions it is heard that the recruitment of radical Islamists does not work as well as in prisons. Please get through to perhaps think – that would be my proposal – to create a security department in Austria where one could stop these radical Islamists, especially monitor them and conclude them from the outside world. Mr. Federal Minister, I will come to the next and last construction site: Security. The security expenditure has already been mentioned by my predecessor. When it comes to protective vests, you have an open ear for it. But you certainly know this “Kurier” article of 19. November 2016 – this is not an invention from us Freeman – in which something is described, which represents a security risk. Da_te A Chechen-born citizen telephoned 262 times with a prisoner. You also know about drug problems. You know very well that this is, of course, a subject. In our neighbouring country Germany you live it before. Let us not always keep up with this – nor is it an expensive solution, nor is the security department for radical Islamists – against these drug or telephone dogs that are used there! Bavaria is there foregleam. Now, if the argument comes again, you'd let the dogs get out of the police – yes. But what you could get yourself, namely justice, for little money would be good. We don't need to reinvent the wheel, we just need to take over what works well in other neighbouring countries. I understand that you can't radically implement all of this in 2017, because that unfortunately doesn't give this budget to God again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16537	Mr Brandstetter has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16558	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is not empty words if I tell you now that it is a great privilege for me to speak to you here. I appreciate that too. You deserved that I go into all that was said here – and I want to do so. Starting with colleagues Stefan, it was said that the fees were actually too high. I would like to present this to you as follows: In addition to a Tacitus quote with which I cannot begin immediately, Mr Vetter spoke of the fact that justice is usually presented here with sword, eyeband and scales. We have one of the world's most beautiful representations of the Justitia in our Palace of Justice. But she has no balance, no, she has a sword. Your left hand is on a thick code, on a code. That stands for the principle of legality. Everything that happens to state action has to be done on the basis of the laws, and all are bound by the laws. Whether rich or poor, the laws are the same for everyone. This is, as it were, the spirit of time that we owe to our justice; and this principle of legality, this principle of legality – to whom do I say that? – is the highest rule in a rule of law, and I am also bound to it. I cannot change the budgetary law which was decided here in the House in 2012 in this form, in which it now applies, and which, of course, - not only with me - corresponds to the scope of the individual ministers of expertise. That's it. I have not invented this budget right, as it is. I say quite frankly to you that I would not have invented it either, but it is reality. If you ask me to lower the fees, I have to tell you: I can't do that because I'm just bound by the budget rules. I have to stick to that. A criticism of this is, in fact, a criticism of the budgetary law which has been decided here and which is binding on me. I can't do anything. I'd like to lower fees, yes, yes. I also did it where I could and where I really thought you had to do it. I have also received the agreement of the financial unit; but generally, with the coverage rate of about 70 or 80 percent, it is certainly such that one can say: Wouldn't be nice if we could lower the fees. I can't and I can't, and you know that. My God, I remember on such occasions my youth and the then current sponti-sprüche. The elderly among you may remember that too. What didn't we ask for at the time?- Oh, my God! “Free view of the Mediterranean!” we called for – but also did not make it. I can't get a fee reduction, I can't. The only thing that works fine in the courtroom and free of charge is if you want to, my music box in the front room. You can test them once, which is free and works well. But otherwise I have to say: As far as reductions in fees are concerned, I am bound by budgetary requirements. That's it, and you know that. Of course, when it goes hard, we ultimately have a legal, even a constitutional, problem. It has already been pointed out here in the House: At a fee, I need an add-on of performance and counterperformance. There, where I no longer have this issue, it is actually a hidden tax. – All right, all that was said! I don't know if we've gotten there. I don't think so, but in the case of the case, it would have to be clarified constitutionally. – So much on the subject of fees. It is also quite right what has been said here on the judicial budget. Yes, in the medium term, we get a problem because we get through well with our budget in the short term, but only through the resolution of reserves, which, in turn, are subject to budget law by the financial sector. We have no problem with this for 2017. Mr Steinhauser, you are quite right, in the medium term, in my opinion, as early as 2018, we have a problem; and then it will be up to you – you are the highest authority in a rule of law – to ensure that the judicial system receives the appropriate budget resources to carry out its tasks. These tasks are already extensive and varied, you must not forget. Whenever you talk about fees and the level of coverage, you should also remember what is done in the judicial system. It has certainly increased labour pressure in all the institutions that belong to the judiciary. It has been very, very much done, perhaps too little talk about. We spend around €8 million each year on victims' aid alone. That's good. We are also responsible for helping the victims of crime, I would like to stress this; but of course, this is also a means and not even so little. It is also necessary to see what is behind it and what is being done by the justice system. That is why I can only say: Yes, some of us have fees that are considered too high. Unfortunately, I cannot change it at the moment, but it is up to you and us all to improve the situation here. As Mr Feichtinger said that I should take a sword to help the new adult protection law break through, I can only say: I am not going to do that because the strongest weapon in the rule of law is still Parliament. This is you, ladies and gentlemen, and I rely on you. There's no better weapon, believe me! Mr Jarolim is also quite right in his criticism. I can complement his demand for collective complaints by actually working intensively on it. But you know, our capacities are also limited somewhere. [[Abg. Moser: This has been going on since...!]] In comparison, I don't have so many employees who can really be used here. Our employees are extremely diligent and work intensively on it. We also want to develop something in the field of collective complaint which is at the forefront of Europe, namely a collective complaint in a way that is optimal for Austrian conditions. This is what we are working on in a working group, including international models, and that is the right way. It will need a little more, but soon we can also present a result there. On the other points mentioned here: Mr Hagen mentioned the violations in the detention centre, and Mr Lausch mentioned this too. I can only say they're worried about me too, of course! It is essential that you really protect the judicial guards there. We can do it as well as we can. You have to say: These law enforcement officials do a great job, they hold their heads for us, and that's why they really deserve our protection. Of course, we have provided suitable equipment with protective equipment. That is why I want to raise the threat of punishment for attacks, violent attacks against executives, without causing injury. In the latter case, we have a sufficient risk of punishment for the serious injury of the body, but the pure attack, which perhaps does not result in direct injury due to protective equipment, should also be answered adequately, with a higher threat of punishment than is the case at present. At present, this is simply too low and would only lead to a district court procedure. I'm with you, too. I would like to take up the reference to a reform of the case law, and the conciliation bodies which have proved themselves to be successful have also rightly been mentioned. As Mr Groiß mentioned the subsidisation of the judicial body, I can only say: In the medium term, that's right. We have no problems at present, as has been said, but one thing is clear: If, for example, the cartels no longer flow directly into our budget, then this is in the final effect, I have to tell you quite frankly, no big difference; they have so far flowed into the reserves, and the resolution of the deposits is also subject to authorisation. So, in this way, the difference for us in the final effect is not so serious. Now very briefly on what has been said in connection with the specific problems in the execution of the sentence; with regard to the costs per day of detention: It has already been mentioned that one should not be fooled, because even here investments find their precipitation, so that a higher number in this area do not necessarily have to be something negative. Mr Lausch has mentioned a number of things, which, of course, needs a supplement and a comment. Member of the European Parliament, if you like the “Kurier” article of 19. On November 20, 2016, you should also mention those of the 20th century. November 2016, the day after that, mention. As a leading judicial guard official has been able to make a number of clarifications in the “curier” media, ensuring that there are also a number of rumors in the area of judicial guard, which simply do not stand up to the reality check. I can only say: It's right, there's the need for a de-radicalization in the penitentiaries. We have acted very carefully here and have used some experts and experts whom we have selected for this purpose for a longer period of search. We do everything we can, with great caution, and do not rely on the first person who offers himself as an expert, but we also proceed here according to international models. If you say, Mr Lausch, that you do not understand why you want to make a second branch out of Göllersdorf, then I would perhaps like to say quite generally – and that is, I believe, again of more general interest: What are we doing in the implementation of measures? We are working on an appropriate reform law. This is also currently being checked by external experts and checked in every direction. We also want to take into account international comparisons, international examples – and here I have had good experience – and above all we want one: We want to create forensic centres, similar to those in Asten, which ensure exactly what you, honourable Member Lausch, have described as quite useful, namely that we have the best possible medical-psychiatric care in institutions we operate, and that we ensure externally with appropriate safety structures. That is the right way, and that will also be the basis of the Act of Action. From Göllersdorf becomes such a forensic center. Now I come back to a general budget issue. Ladies and gentlemen, if, for example, we also experience in the financial balance that the countries with regard to their health facilities are obliged to a cost-damage path when we experience – as honourable Member Lausch has just said – that, for example, the Pavilion 23 in Vienna is no longer available as a closed department, then the consequence is completely clear to me; and that is exactly what will be reflected in the Act of Action: If no one accepts this, then we have to do it. If a psychiatric sick person becomes criminal and this problem arises with us, then we must solve it ourselves, permanently and until the last consequence. That is what the citizens expect, and that is what I have learned from many incidents of the past months and years; and that is, I believe, what we must expect from the justice system: a sustainable, holistic solution. If I can now come back to the main point of the budget debate. It has been said again and again today: Yes, yes, the decisive thing about this budget is security, it's about premise security. I say quite frankly to you: According to my experience and firm conviction, it can only be a sustainable, holistic security policy. The fight for the best possible safety for the public is already starting with prevention measures in school and only in the case of probation aid ceases after a prison sentence. Between them lies a lot: In between, the work of the police lies, between which lies the work of prosecutors and courts and the work of the judicial guards. But one must never overlook the holistic aspect, and that is why it is essential for me to seek cooperation beyond the individual ministries. That's very important. Why do we cooperate – we have agreed – with the Ministry of Education on the “Justice Makes School” action, which goes from the judiciary and within the framework of which we send judges and prosecutors who like to do this to the schools in order to do preventive work and also inform the students about many things that are legally important? - That makes sense. Why do we cooperate intensively with the Ministry of the Interior and the security authorities? – In everything we can cooperate with, we work very closely, with transportation services, with everything there is only. Why do we cooperate so closely with the Ministry of Defence, even in the case of transport services, even in the provision of specially protected vehicles? – Just because it makes sense and because it makes sense, above all, from budgetary considerations. At this point I would like to say: Perhaps – it has also been mentioned by Mr Lausch – it is true that in our area we hear from some people too little. How did you say? – We haven't heard anything for a long time! – Yes, this may also be due to the fact that it is not about nothing but that we are more specialized in laying eggs, and less on gambling. That's what it is. Perhaps in the future we should also report a little more about what we are doing – and that is very, very much. [[Abg. Lausch: The Justice Committee would be the opportunity!]] I think that's essential. Above all, this cooperation beyond the ministerial borders is so important, and we have also used the Federal Mobility Programme intensively, for example. And we try to save budget resources wherever it is: through cooperation, through cooperation. That's also the right way. I'm telling you that quite openly. I was convinced that I was particularly convinced of the employment of the reform of the implementation of the measures. The citizen and the citizen do not care what expenditure items, in which UG any expenditure is budgeted or not. They don't care. It doesn't matter. I don't care. It is crucial, in the end, that this should be done by the public authorities as a whole, and how it is financed. It is often a pity to see how much is used or wasted in time and effort to make it clear on which budget items of a public institution are being financed. This does not make sense from the point of view of the citizen. He wants security to be guaranteed; whoever now finances it like, when and where, that's right to be secondary, I tell you quite openly. For me, the holistic view of things is essential, beyond the ministerial boundaries. Security policy is something holistic, and therefore the question of which place has too much or too little received, which place is winner or loser, is totally irrelevant and secondary. It is crucial that the cooperation of the Ministries facing these issues brings out the best possible for the citizen. This is our approach, and we stay with it. We also maintain that we are really very economical in many areas. We saved a section head office. I don't think there's another place that did it. We still don't turn any ads; we don't. We are trying to find other ways to make known what is necessary. Then it may be that you get the impression that it's less for us – it's not right at all. And we are doing something else – and this is the last point I want to address, he has already been mentioned –: We are trying to make real use of the savings potential in the use of state-of-the-art technology. There we are – and now I say it too, because it is perhaps too little known – far ahead internationally. With our programmes such as Justice 3.0, our use of state-of-the-art computer technology in the processes, we are in second place across Europe and also far ahead internationally, about 7th after the normal rankings. In other words, we are really at the forefront of other public institutions in Austria, and we want to remain, and we continue to do so. All these measures – the use of service centres, the use of electronic file management, where we have just started pilot projects, which will show that we will be able to ensure a purely digital record management in the not too long future – all this, you know, leads us to say for good reason: We are far ahead of the potential for savings, which is actually present in the use of state-of-the-art technology, and of course we want to stay ahead. This, of course, requires a corresponding budgeting in the future, and I think everything in everything remains. It's right: In the short term, we do not have a problem with the budget, I would say in the medium term that it needs new budgetary resources. But You can be sure: The line of this House, the judicial unit, is such that everything we receive from budget resources is really used in a economical and careful manner. It will remain the same. Take this as my promise! I'm on it. And if we really need a new budget – and the 2018 budget negotiations start soon – I also ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16616	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16638	Madam President. Mr. Justice Minister! I find it a bit unfair now that the privilege that you personally address to all the speeches is not for everyone, for example, those who speak after you. Perhaps we have a bilateral opportunity to talk about my concern too, it is also very favourable, I would like to say. Madam President, if I mention briefly now that I am pleased that the funds for bilateral development cooperation will rise by € 17.1 million next year, I am not yet in the wrong budget chapter, even if it is the next one we are discussing. I would like to mention this deliberately because I would like to point out that bilateral development cooperation is only a small part, about 7 percent, of the entire cake of Official Development Assistance, for which we spend about 0.32 percent of gross national income, although we have committed ourselves to 0.7 percent. In addition to the financial – and now I come to your place, Minister – development cooperation or development policy also has a content component that measures, above all, how far we are able to resolve policy coherence for sustainable development, i.e. a sustainable, coherent development policy, in which a policy does not undermine the objectives of development cooperation. The whole ODA cake is divided into many ministries, and almost all ministries have something to contribute to a coherent development policy, and I would like to address the part that the Ministry of Justice has to play. I don't need to tell you, Minister of State, We are the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in the 1960s. Joining the United Nations, under which we, as Austria, are regularly examined whether we fulfil all our obligations. Among the latest recommendations made in November 2013 are the criticism that Austria is not doing enough to ensure that Austrian companies that are internationally active and infringing human rights in third countries are also properly persecuted and held responsible. This question of human rights correct management of companies in relation to labour rights – in the matter of fairly paid jobs, the question of sustainable and responsible handling of foreign resources or the question of how much attention is paid to the environment when you promote, transport or produce anything – is highly relevant to development policy. The Social Responsibility Network has addressed this recommendation by the United Nations, which it has given to Austria, and has considered in two legal opinions how we can better implement this protection in Austria. Mr Minister, I would like to give you these two legal opinions as a small reading material, perhaps as the basis for a discussion that we could have. [[Federal Minister Brandstetter handed over reported documents]] This concerns, for example, the question of corporate responsibility and due diligence by identifying risks and looking at business strategies, how to eliminate or compensate for these risks or minimize human rights violations. On the one hand, it concerns civil liability, for example in the ABGB, in terms of defence obligations or supervisory and supervisory obligations, but also due diligence obligations of senior employees or executive bodies, for example in company law. There is also a criminal law component, both on the issue of the Criminal Code and on the issue of the Association Responsibility Act, in which care is also taken for decision-makers. These two legal opinions also address the very specific situation as to how to take account of subsidiaries or subcontractors. There is also a great deal of foreign experience, European experience in the implementation of these greater responsibilities, and in the sense of a coherent development policy, I would be very pleased if we could not only remain in the discussion on this important subject, but could also become more active as Austria, than we have been so far. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16692	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16713	Madam President. Minister of Justice! Foreign Minister! As already noted in item 1 above, the sale of objects in state ownership is to be assessed in a longer-term and adverse manner in the current situation. In the continuation of the mode of conduct of previous governments, a reconstruction of district courts is also envisaged or in implementation. It is known that as one of the few ministries, the Ministry of Justice can be managed cost-effectively, even overly. In this legislative period, judicial fees were adjusted so that the budget of the judicial system is adequately equipped with the requirements. Anzu- However, it is the merger of district courts, which leads to non-significant costs for the construction of objects or rents. In the short term, there will be little savings in staff, but they are mainly officials. Problems in the area of mergers of small and district courts arise from the location as well as a public accessibility. Further problems arise from the lengths of various procedures, with those procedures covered by the cost of legal protection insurance. The legal basis requires well-trained staff, whose education and training and facilities are not to be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16756	Next item is the report by Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16777	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, it must be noted that I believe that the area of justice is excellently managed, and I also believe that the last 40 legislative projects we have implemented had their right. It was particularly important to reform criminal law, to increase penalties for acts against body and life and to reduce punishment for property offences, because I believe that this is in a disproportionate relationship. Mr Federal Minister, you also have any support regarding attacks against judicial officers or others, because it is also about acts against body and life. If you put up the threat of punishment in this regard, I'll find it all right. I'm a little different about the fees, you know. I do not think that Parliament itself is guilty of deciding on these charges. After all, the proposal comes from you. That means you have to break your head over it in advance. It is also stated in the Government Convention that the court fees are evaluated. I believe that we are entering into more and more cover, making profits with the fees, and then at some point the point where the Constitutional Court will say that this cover or this profit is no longer proportionate. It is also this proportionality that I believe is really a cause for concern. I have fewer problems with the acquisition tax because in this case there are assets that are ultimately passed on, and if there is an asset there, one must also be able to afford to deal with it or negotiate it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. & Lower]] I'm more concerned with the sums when implementing small amounts of money. If you want to implement small amounts of money in the amount of €3 000 or €3500, you pay €544 in court fees once you make it in the simplified procedure, in the warning procedure. If you do this in a more complicated procedure, namely in TP 3 – you know what I mean – we are at €680, and that with a stake of €3 000. That is, those small and medium-sized amounts that meet the simple people who can no longer afford the 600 € if they have already lost 3,000 € at full process risk. Maybe we should go a little bit after that. I think that this is going to be too high and the majority of cases are involved. Finally, it pays back people who are not able to handle the money so easily. I think there should be a damping. I would also like to make proposals because I believe that there is a social imbalance in implementation. Nevertheless, I believe that the Ministry of Justice is fulfilling its tasks. It is a pity that we are mainly discussing criminal and criminal proceedings because they are very public. The majority of the provisions we are introducing here are not criminal provisions, so society still works, and I believe that a functioning judicial system is the clamp that holds democracy together. Savings in this area are always dangerous because they are also at the expense of social peace and ultimately of living together and cohesion of a society. I therefore believe that in Austria we can be very happy about how we make our legal system, and that it is one of the most efficient in Europe, is beyond doubt. The slight criticism of fees will remain, and I believe that we will offer a permanent solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16834	I now have no more words on the sub-division of justice. I would like to thank Mr Brandstetter and explain the discussions on this subject. [[16:37:14]] UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16859	We shall now come to the negotiation of Division 12: Outwards. I welcome Mr Bundesminister Kurz. Mr Hübner was the first to speak. I'll set you up for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16886	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Mrs Steinacker said that the rule of law is a very ambitious goal that we must achieve, but I do not mean that. The rule of law is actually a matter of course in the state administration. This also applies, of course, to the issue of who is staying with us or is not allowed to stop. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The rule of law has been with us for years, let us say it carefully, aside. There are a large number of pretexts and suspensions that have removed the rule of law, which has put aside the entire asylum system and, together with a corona of domestic and foreign courts, our right to decide who is allowed to stay with us and who has not, who is temporarily and who remains permanent. How do I get to the Exterior chapter now? – That's what my colleague Cap is asking. [[Abg. Cap: Yes!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... already very excited!]] Very simple: Although the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot regulate the residence permits, it may allow the Ministry of the Interior or the Austrian authorities to bring back people who are illegally resident in the country to where they belong, namely to the countries they are citizens of which they are legally resident. What can the ministry do about this? – It can do what the Minister himself proposes and calls for, and sees it as right, but which he cannot enforce in the government, namely, Austrian support payments to ensure that the countries adhere to the practices of good international cooperation and, of course, take back their own citizens, who are illegally resident in Austria, partially criminalised, partially unpunished. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But that's not happening. This is not happening at Austrian level and not at European level at all. We know the Grotesques with Morocco. It is now almost twelve years when the EU is negotiating with Morocco the withdrawal agreement of its illegal citizens. Nothing has happened for twelve years. The money continues to flow without any requirement. Last year, some €660 million from EU funds went to Morocco. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A madness!]] Apart from that, they have largely open access to the European market through a free trade agreement. That is to say, we have all the resources in foreign policy, countries that violate international practices that do not mind their citizens coming to us illegally and who are not prepared to take back their citizens, especially when they are criminal, to take them back to the kandare or to move to a cooperative behaviour. Puh, there's a lot to call. Nigeria is also such a special country. Actually, it's a functioning democracy – for over ten years. The inflow of EU funds was €680 million last year, the cooperation on the withdrawal of illegal immigrants: zero. For Austria, too, there are priority countries, such as Ethiopia, which are very little cooperative in the withdrawal of the illegal people who come from there – whether it be real Ethiopia or people who spend themselves as Ethiopia, like the people from Eritrea who buy Ethiopian papers on the black market there and come with them to Austria. We therefore want to give the Foreign Minister support here and make a request so that Members can decide what has not yet been done by a higher position. I therefore agree to submit the following request to the National Council for decision-making and, hopefully, to the Council: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e16988	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17052	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17074	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Mr Hübner! [[Abg. Nice to meet you.]] I think we agree: It is better to do everything that refugees do not make their way to us and that we protect the external borders. [[Call the FPÖ:Do too!]] Putting on the back once they're with us, and then trying to get rid of us with deportations, that's not the solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] The solution is exactly the course taken by the Foreign Minister: Closing the Western Balkans route, doing everything that protects the EU's external borders, then saving us a lot of what is actually very busy with us now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Do the one thing, don't let the other do it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] - Well, that's where we agree. But the better way is to clearly describe: We do everything we can to secure the EU's external borders. We support the states on the Western Balkans route so that they will not be left alone, and we are also committed to something happening on the ground. I now come comprehensively to speak to the foreign sector. This short course is one that is becoming increasingly supportive across Europe. It is important that we too agree here in the House that it is right to take the appropriate measures which are not always undisputed at the outset. We had huge migration flows in 2015, and this is, of course, now reflected in this budget and also in a point that is still a step forward, namely in development cooperation. We had a situation – and I remember that from the time I was myself in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – in which, unfortunately, the funds have become less and less. A trend change has now been achieved. We have an increase of €77 million to €92 million for the next year, and we will be able to double the funds by 2021 for this important area. This is very important, because every euro that is used there really saves us a lot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I myself have seen in the refugee camps in Lebanon how bitterly necessary, for example, are our resources for the World Food Programme. Mr Pilz was also one who has repeatedly made himself strong for this. [[Abg. Moser: Why... shortened?]] In addition, the responsible person there is an Austrian who has set up this World Food Programme in Lebanon very professionally. The second area for which the Foreign Minister is responsible also concerns those who have come to us who want to stay here. That is where we need the willingness to make funds available. We also have an increase of €55 million to more than €90 million. But whatever we want, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, is the new integration law. I'm really looking for you for that! It's been there since summer. We need clear rules here. We need appropriate legal framework conditions here, so that everyone who comes to us is aware of the conditions under which he can be here with us, that he also has to accept our everyday culture, that he has to take appropriate steps here in order to learn the German language quickly, to do everything he can to create the entry into the labour market, that he also has the willingness to do non-profit work here, if he does not make it possible to enter the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] This is a very important point in which we also need your support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank our diplomats and diplomats for the professional work they do. The average Austrian has to do with the foreign office if there is a political crisis overnight. One is in a holiday country where, for example, a natural disaster occurs, then our citizens need the foreign office. This is very professional on the road, also as a service facility not only for citizens, but with the new priorities of the embassies also for our economy. When I think of Singapore, when I think of Qatar: It sets the right priorities; and this course, which the Foreign Minister has taken, deserves the support of the entire House.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17183	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17205	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the external breakdown, of course, it is important to look at the priorities set. This is no question at all, because international developments are more than worrying. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the one hand directly in the departments in Vienna, but, on the other, of course, also in the representations, has a lot to do in order to actually meet the challenges. Let's take a look at the departments in Vienna! After all, it is also a matter of creating active foreign policy, and that is why we also need to look at how human occupation has been designed in the political departments. I am now taking out four major departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For example, one is the one dealing with Eastern Europe, the South Caucasus, Central Asia and the EU's eastern neighbourhood policy. This is a huge area, where crises and wars are also a challenge. A department deals with the Middle East and the Middle East, a department with total Africa, a department with total America including Latin America and the Caribbean. I call once these four departments which have to deal with the crises and wars. The challenges actually need personnel to be able to handle them. However, it is also not intended in this budget to increase the number of employees, it is also not remembered in this budget that the highly motivated employees get support. [[Abg. Beautiful: Thank God not!]] At the same time, however, it probably takes almost 24 hours, seven days a week to observe, locate and analyse the crises and wars. As long as the staff in the political departments are not increased, no active foreign policy can be created for so long. The same applies to foreign representations. The reorientation – Mr Lopatka mentioned it briefly – means not only the opening of new messengers, but also the closing of established messages, how this unfortunately happened and what we have always criticized. The new openings of the messages relate primarily to small messages. This means an ambassador, an ambassador, and a support force. I see this very critically, and I doubt that the work that is simply being done in embassies can actually be implemented. That doesn't mean the diplomats, diplomats are not engaged. This means that the challenges have simply increased so immensely that it simply takes more staff for the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make sustainable foreign policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You know, Minister, in the case of police and national defence, a lot of money has been created very quickly on behalf of security. Diplomacy is also part of security; it is also with the work of diplomatic service and work with civil society. There it is simply missing because the negotiations did not seem to have worked so well. Neither does it seem to be your goal to follow Mr Minister, the tradition of Austrian foreign policy, to force dialogue and peace initiatives. The debate of just now supports this picture, because my two previous speakers have referred more to internal policy than to actually active foreign policy, dialogue and peace initiative. There would just be a lot to do. Let us look at the situation in Syria: Walls and fences in Europe will not end the war. It's not new now, but it's a fact. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If peace talks are not forced further, if there is no ceasefire with UN support, if reconstruction does not work, then the crisis and war will not be stopped so quickly. Topic Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova: We know that it is necessary to force actually trilateral talks with Russia, i.e. the European Union, Russia and the countries that are in this troubled geopolitical situation. This requires a very clear, active foreign policy to create peace and security for the countries in this direction, when it comes to neighbourhood policy and because it will also be about integration into the European Union in the next few years. To Turkey again: Mr Minister, this week the Foreign Policy Council is taking place, which we have called for, but it is nevertheless important to look closely at what measures actually need to be put in place so that what is happening in Turkey can finally have clear consequences. To put the rod in the window for President Erdoğan and his ACP is too little, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There is a need for action, and it is about a arms embargo, and that is what it is about actually suspending pre-accession aid from the European Union. It is also about calling for the arrest of oppositionists, judges, journalists and journalists not only, but also actively on the ground. I am also missing active foreign policy in these areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The same is true of development cooperation. Development cooperation is based on three pillars. One is the bilateral pillar, then there is the multilateral pillar, i.e. the international organisations, and the third pillar is humanitarian aid. Yes, of course, there is a gray area between the columns, but it is clearly defined what is responsible for which pillar. When it was announced this year that there was an increase of €17 million, of course, the clubs and NGOs, which were simply financially starved for years, enjoyed themselves first and foremost. Now there is quite clearly the disappointment again, because it is not about bilateral development cooperation, but because it is about forms of humanitarian aid, not – as Mr Lopatka suggested – in refugee camps, where mainly Syrian refugees are to be helped, but about building up something in Iraq and Afghanistan – under quotation marks – which seems to prevent migration or force return incentives from Austria. This will not work, however, because we know that long-term and sustainable projects can only happen where peace and stability actually exist and where it is about reducing poverty, minimizing climate change and the effects of hunger and need. I do not see any strategy in increasing the funds for development cooperation on this point, and I am not pleased, like Mr Bayr, that the increase has taken place, but I say that there really needs to be a development cooperation strategy to reduce poverty in this world. This is our international commitment!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17262	The next item is the report by Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17284	However, it must be acknowledged at least that there must be a good link between the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Finance, because it has succeeded in achieving budgetary growth in a number of areas. This should be welcomed in principle. To what colleague Tanja Windbüchler-Soushills has said: It is, of course, true that Turkey will not be so impressed except for the strategy of saying: If you want visa freedom, you have to take action in the anti-terrorist laws, because the anti-terrorist laws are the pretext for the whole reduction of democracy, the violation of human rights and so on. This is certainly an approach. However, it remains to be asked how long President Erdoğan will last. Economic development in Turkey is not so rosy. There are many thousands of European companies that are committed, and if there are difficulties, they will deduct their capital and their investments. How this is to be handled and how it can continue to be approved in the population remains to be seen. At least that's a point, but there's a lot to be done. On the question of the withdrawal agreements, I assume, the Foreign Minister will say something anyway. It is in all cases in our interest that there are as many of these withdrawal agreements as possible. However, I am voting in favour of Mr Hübner, who has almost already presented himself as a universal scholar of the Freedom Party today – on what thematic diversity of your views have been! – that it is important to try to solve this on-site, so that those who want to flee for economic, climatic or other reasons see a perspective, live and stay where they are. What motivated me to get out of here today is this debate around the European army. Trump is elected and says he doesn't want to be that active anymore. – There have already been other times in Europe when the French would have liked to have the command over the Mediterranean fleet and the Americans said It is not a problem at all, because France could have built only a French aircraft carrier, so the French can sit on it and command themselves. Now it seems to be different, now there seems to be a certain policy of protectionism, a policy of isolation. You'll see if that's what it's going to do. What, though, is the suspicion of a European army? – That makes me a little unrounded, because there must be enemy images that are depicted. On the other hand, I see the perspective more in economic cooperation with Russia. I believe that there must be economic cooperation between all European countries, including the Caucasus, down to Turkey, with all criticism, in order to achieve and prevent stability, so that we do not make up-to-date strategies, then set up missiles and almost startled the old enemy images, as in the Cold War times, because then the whole thing goes off again. That would be a huge destruction of capital, tax money and resources, it would spread fears again – I don't think so! [[I should like to congratulate the Members of this House on the work they have done and on the work they have done.]] By the way, I don't know how this is supposed to work at all. I agree to this kind of cooperation in order to secure the external borders, but when refugees come over with the boat, I do not need to have any sintering ground-air, air-air and air-ground missiles, but there is a need to have very special techniques in order to be able to take the appropriate protection measures. But there is a swing in the fact that there may also be American companies involved in European arms companies. It swings with the fact that you have to upgrade a bit and invest once in the area. There are people who attach to military Keynesianism and say: Let us make an employment policy on the arms industry, which can also lead to economic growth! No one knows who then has command competence in any European army, who in which case commands, who decides with what description all this should be done, so that is absolutely obscene to me. I can only say that I am filled with strong distrust and I do not really want to do so, but I want us to have a peaceful development, a peace of consensus, dialogue, economic cooperation, and to get closer together. This is the only solution in order to be able to act as a serious partner globally towards China, the USA and the other continents.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17344	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17365	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear taxpayers and taxpayers! We are now dealing with the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Expenditure of € 550 million is proposed. This is not negligible, but still the smallest budget among all Ministries, namely at Weitem, with additional attention being paid to the fact that under these 550 million € are approximately 310 million pure throughputs, namely the bilateral development cooperation and disaster aid amounting to 113 million euros, further contributions to international organisations worth 104 million € and finally integration measures amounting to 92 million €. These are all expenditure that is absolutely necessary, and we expressly welcome the increase in payments to international organisations by €19 million and the increase in EZA funds by €17 million. However, we are still extremely far away from the declared objective of this Federal Government to spend 0.7 percent of gross national income on development aid. We do not see in this budget a substantial increase in EZA resources beyond the expenditure incurred by the refugee crisis and carried out domestically. In other words: There is still a great deal to be done in the area of development aid. If you look at the actual operational budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, apart from throughput, this is €240 million. These are the resources for the central office and the network of foreign representatives. This amount has been stagnating for years, or is even declining, and in 2017 it will be further reduced by deducting the one-time financial syringe of € 10 million for the Austrian Presidency of the OSCE. For comparison only: For all embassies, consulates and cultural forums, which do a great job worldwide, from Brazil to India, from Johannesburg to Oslo, we spend about 160 million € – stagnant, rather sinking. At the same time, our government spends about €200 million on advertisements in boulevards. On the other hand, we also spend about €200 million annually on party funding and club promotion at the federal and national level. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I suggest that we move forward with good example: Let us save here with us, with politics, and perhaps let us spend a little less on advertisements in the “Kronen Zeitung” so that we can ensure proper financing of Austrian foreign policy in return, because we already have to ask ourselves a question: Is the further thinning of the network of representation, the further humanization of the diplomatic service the right answer to the global challenges that Austria needs to face, keyword migration, development, security, climate change? The fact is, Austria cannot escape these challenges. The security, prosperity, the future of Austria, all of this is no longer only decided within our borders, but in part also in Afghanistan, Libya, Iraq or some distant country that is plagued by a natural disaster. And in order to respond quickly and actively to global developments, a strong global representation network is needed. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] As a small country, we are neither military nor economically able to enforce our interests by means of the bridge rod. We therefore need a smart, trained diplomacy, which is the tool of our interests. You, Mr Federal Minister, have rightly found in the Committee on Budgets that Austria has to box over its weight class in this area, and I give you the right, but it is also your task to equip our diplomacy with the necessary resources. You don't do that with this budget. In many areas we can and should save, but I think we should invest wisely in foreign policy. We need a strong geographical presence and also a minimum equipment in our messages. What does that mean? In concrete terms, this means at least two professional diplomats for each message, as Mrs Windbüchler-Soushill pointed out, it means an increase in certain messages such as in Brussels or Amman, It also means opening representations in countries where we are otherwise engaged, for example in Afghanistan or Iraq. The prevention and warning of crises, in my opinion, Mr Federal Minister, is still the cheapest solution, and the cost of opportunities for a small-scale diplomatic network could be much higher for Austria than we would have liked. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17426	Mr Huainigg spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17447	Mr President. Minister! High house! A good budget, a fairer budget begins with the increase of funds for development cooperation, and this has really been achieved by Federal Minister Kurz and Federal Minister Schelling. Despite stressed budgetary situation, it has succeeded in doubling the funds, from € 77 million to € 154 million. The funds for the foreign disaster fund will be increased to four times, from € 5 million to € 20 million. These are essential steps that have succeeded. Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill criticised the fact that we are not spending the money in Austria, that the NGOs are not getting the money, but that the money will be invested in the countries of origin. I can't share this criticism at all. When it comes to avoiding poverty, improving the living situation of people in the countries of origin, it is much better than spending the money here for refugees. The value of every euro invested in the countries of origin is a multiple, in Syria even the ten to twentyfold. And there is also an overall strategy that has been developed with the involvement of all stakeholders of Parliament, NGOs and science. This is really a very exemplary process that has succeeded, and there is now this overall coherence in the EZA. The criticism that Mr Windbüchler-Souschill has also brought about, namely that we would not take peacekeeping measures, I really can only reject it, I stand against it, because, especially in peacekeeping, Federal Minister Kurz has been very committed, and Vienna has become a centre of peace negotiations. So: We're on the right track. We're not at the finish yet, but the way is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17484	Mr Dr. Karlsböck is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17506	Mr President. Minister! Today, when we turn up an international television station such as CNN, at least I always notice an advertising, that is, those of Turkish Airlines that advertise massively with how much they have networked their network around the world. If you get lost in remote areas of the world, Africa as an example, then you will see again and again that one of the few airlines flying certain destinations is exactly this airline with the hub Ankara. This is an example of an indirect foreign policy which, of course, is subsidized by the State paid, but in this way there is a massive foreign policy in some countries. I also wish from the Austrian side a foreign policy which – not necessarily with aircraft now – directly and indirectly intervenes in certain regions. Direct foreign policy must be implemented locally with the help of our diplomatic representations. Focusing on selected actions is, of course, essential, and, of course, investment is also essential. Indirectly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can now serve the external offices of the Chamber of Commerce. But why not resort to the experience of old-fashioned and experienced Austrian personalities is still a mystery to me. There are names like Steger, Androsch, Ofner, and I could list many others who really have international experience and can do big things indirectly for Austria. We see large markets of hope for Austrian foreign policy in South and South-East Asia. There you can really open up potential, Austria needs to show presence there. This, of course, costs a lot, but these investments are worth considering only the return on the way, especially through tourism. The diplomatic presence on the ground is also essential in order to get important first-hand information that the friends of the countries are not going to play for us. In times of an uncertain world, these are indispensable. As a recent example, I would like to draw on Indonesia, which is still a peaceful country today, but in which a lot of things are congregated under the ceiling. I would like to take a short look at development cooperation: It is so – and you know that, ladies and gentlemen – that we consider these to be critical in the present state. Development aid benefits are only useful if their proper use can be guaranteed and effective control mechanisms ensure that Austrian taxpayers do not send them into dubious channels. As has already been said, development aid must be linked to conditions, and there are no excuses. Return agreements must be negotiated, decided and executed. We're not supposed to let ourselves dance around on the nose anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! There are many areas of crisis, from the Middle East to Africa to Ukraine. The new U.S. administration after the election represents a major challenge for some of us here in the House – not for us liberals. The new people acting will suddenly shift the orientation of US policy. This means for some rejections, but it also means great opportunities for Austria – great opportunities for Austria because we have in the past established contacts with people from the FPÖ, for which we have always been smiled and criticized, towards decent, consistent, true to principle and authentic personalities who now come in the highest functions in the administration of the USA. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We have these contacts, and that is to say, our presidential candidate can then resort to them. Today – and you like to smile and criticise us for it – we have best contacts in the USA, this is going very hard, and we have already gone to Russia to date. That means that our presidential candidate has these contacts in the USA and Russia, I would like to stress this here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To conclude: In the light of a press release by the Greens, Mr Van der Bellen, something strange has been noticed, which I would like to mention very briefly here. In the morning, a broadcast will be made in which our party chairman is strongly criticized. Mr Strache, who made a comment on the German Chancellor, will Called Van der Bellen to order by this writes: “Germany is Austria’s most important trading partner. One does not insult the German Chancellor without any retroactive effects, nor does it in my eyes cause no reason.” And if you have good reasons for this, then you should “do another tone, rather than crushing foreign policy porcelain. ” - Good. In the afternoon, he says about the United States in the light of candidate Trump, who had “been guilty of a robbery of the language. ” Mr Trump has “began to blame”, he is a “hetzer”, and he – Van der Bellen – “hope for a victory of Clinton” because of the great political experience, “while Trump has simply done too much. ” And then, after the election, he says that Trump is a right-wing demo that has assumed power that he is a populist and the like. His choice was a shock to him. There will be a lot of foreign-political porcelain being smashed and just the opposite of what has been announced in the morning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office has a great symbolic effect abroad. I can only say that if with these statements, with this present constellation, a Mr Van der Bellen takes over this office, then at least to the West has actually been crushed, then a diplomatic ice age is threatening with the USA. He acted like an elephant in the porcelain shop.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17605	But you know that we're discussing the budget, aren't you?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17620	I am also at the end, ladies and gentlemen – this is part of the budget – and I would like to conclude by saying: The reproaches of the ignorant must be heard with equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17654	Mr Rosenkranz, we are not going to discuss it now. Next, Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17684	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Karlsböck, as Mr President has already said, this is a budget debate and not an election campaign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Secondly, I can assure you: We all have contacts – in all directions. Thirdly, in view of the way you act here, I am concerned about Austria's reputation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we look around the world like this when we turn on the TV, read the newspapers, then you can't just say that the world has become quieter, more stable or more peaceful in 2016 – quite the contrary! Many conflicts have worsened. Look You will find yourself in East Ukraine or Syria or Iraq, where children, women and men die every day! The situation in Turkey is tense, millions of people worldwide People on the run, and as far as this is foreseeable today, will not be a simple year in 2017. The question therefore arises: What can we do? I think we should make our contribution when it comes to preventing conflicts in good time and reducing the existing conflicts and solving them peacefully, as much as we can contribute to them. We should make our contribution when it comes to ensuring a decent supply for millions of refugees and supporting those countries that have received a large number of refugees, these people and are caring for them. And we should make our contribution when it comes to enabling countries to develop economically and socially in order to achieve stability and peace. That is why it is also very important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received an increase in the budget for 2017 – a very necessary decision. The money not only ensures that our development cooperation can be improved – even if we still have a long way ahead of us – but also that we can pay our contributions to important United Nations peace missions. This includes missions in Somalia, Congo, Central Africa, Mali, and if more peace, more development, more security is created there, then the well-invested money that can effectively reduce refugee numbers and ultimately fight terrorism, drug trafficking and human trafficking – all areas that would otherwise cost us much more. I am also counting those in the Western Sahara on these useful missions, because it is not, as some have always said, just a referendum, but it is also a question of monitoring the ceasefire, the setting up of up to two million landmines and blind people and confidence building measures to make a peaceful solution possible. The pan-European peace and security structure has been in its greatest crisis since the end of the Cold War, and instead of transparency and cooperation, it is set back on rhetoric, on real disarmament, exclusion and deterrence – and, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that we want to do so in Austria. We want a Europe of cooperation. It is therefore also good to take on responsibility and become active in this regard. In 2017, we have the possibility of Austria taking over the OSCE presidency – and therefore great responsibility, because Austria, as a neutral state, will also be given the opportunity to play a significant role in shaping the pan-European security policy. Given this great opportunity and the great challenges that the OSCE and thus Austria will face next year, I would have liked to see an even greater budget item for this area. I hope, however, that we can and will benefit from this opportunity to build bridges and dialogues between East and West, instead of destroying them or building new walls, that we will bring forward important initiatives such as a new arms control, that we will work together to reduce dangerous tensions in the conflict regions of Europe, and that we will be able to carry out convincing work to ensure that it is better to take a stand. to use a common security as a deterrence and upgrade. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17759	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17781	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery, who watch and listen to us! [[Call:Are all Carinthia]] When we talk about living together and social integration, we mean living together of all of us as society, based on the principles of democracy, human dignity, which is the same for every human being, no matter where he was born, his name and which religion he has. Our living together is based on human rights, women's rights and children's rights. – I wanted to advance this, because when we talk about social integration, it is important that we think the same thing. In this context, I should like to expressly note that I welcome the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Integration, which has been combined with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from this year to the next year in particular for integration measures. I expressly welcome this, particularly in view of the fact that some 89 000 people in Austria have sought protection last year. Because many places are talking about costs, we can and should also consider what the alternative would be. – Yes, there are costs of integration, and if we talk about it, we should always ask ourselves: What is the alternative? What would be the cost of non-integration for all of us, for our society? What if we didn't say we'd take more money for German courses, for orientation courses, we'd see young refugees, older refugees being accompanied if they were accommodated in localities, that they were not simply “parked” and left alone – under quotation marks? – This would then mean that, on the one hand, those seeking protection will be left alone in their lives in Austria, but at the same time the local population will be left alone. It is therefore very welcome and a right decision that the 2016 integration budget will be increased to 2017. I would like to expressly praise this – you can't say it often enough – and underline it again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to tell you about concrete encounters: I was at the 2nd in Linz about a month ago. Helpful conference, where hundreds of Austrians – young and old, women and men – met. These are all people who volunteer in their village, that is, not paid, for the integration of protection seekers. There were people who volunteered to organize German courses that taught German. There were older ladies, who used to be teachers, now in retirement and teaching children in their spare time, giving supplementary education so that children seeking protection, children of refugees can be connected as soon as possible so that they can follow the lessons. – I think this is a situation that is very often called Neudeutsche with Win-win-Situation, that is, the people concerned have something of it because they attend school quickly, and the old people also have something of it because our education system allows and provides more cohesion and better functioning. In spite of all this, I do not want to mention that we are pretty much at the beginning of the integration efforts, particularly with regard to protection seekers and refugees. Yes, this will be a lot of hard work for all of us, but at the same time we should always talk about it and introduce ourselves: What if people are not integrated? What if children stay on the edge of school classes, they can't follow the class if they don't come to school? What if, according to current statistics, asylum seekers will receive about 50 percent of them either asylum or the so-called subsidiary protection status, what we commonly call small asylum, so that they cannot be sent back to work for months and years – in small towns, in larger towns, in Vienna – so that, when they get a positive asylum notice, they cannot even work because they cannot yet work German if they do not receive orientation courses if there are no initiatives like those of Caritas, Diacony, Volkshilfe and others that ensure that people get to know each other? Ladies and gentlemen, as a human being, who only later immigrated to Austria, was not born here, I have experienced and lived through this integration process, which I spoke of here briefly. I am very happy to have met people who have kindly welcomed me, who have supported me, whether that was at the university, whether they were the parents of my fellow students, so that I was invited by friends families at Christmas parties, and tell me a lot of people by email, by phone or on the street that they are doing this for and with those looking for protection who have arrived with us last year. I would like to thank all of them for the thousands of hours of volunteer work and for the very important integration work they are doing – for all of us – and I hope that, by adopting more German courses, more integration measures, more orientation courses, we can also support these citizens, these thousands of Austrians and Austrians. In this sense: For a good cohabitation, for a good co-existence! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17820	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17842	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Before I come to my remarks, I can still welcome a group from the beautiful Carinthia, the Obernoster group with over 100 people. Welcome here at the Hohen Haus! [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in times of distress, foreign policy is particularly required. It must assess the situation, it must work out the interests of Austria and its people. Foreign policy must take into account European and international relations, develop a position and represent them consistently. – That is exactly what Austrian foreign policy is currently doing in the person of Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz. It creates great reputation for Austria and its active foreign policy through clear positions and, above all, its commitment to the interests of this country – and this is particularly important – in Europe and in the world. At the same time, however, the concerns and fears of the Austrians are taken seriously because they are given a clear position of security. This is the case in the sensitive issue of the refugee and migration movement. At that time, a joint approach between Austria and the Western Balkans reached the conclusion of this route and that there has been a movement in Europe as a whole on this issue. At a club event in ÖVP on the topic of guiding culture, Sebastian Kurz and also Klubobmann Reinhold Lopatka were last discussed. This is what happened to Turkey, too, Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. Sebastian Kurzhat made a clear statement by saying that a country where journalists and opposition politicians are arrested has no place in the European Union. – Please, the positions cannot be clearer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Windbüchler-Sauschill.]] This is important, above all, because something is being done actively, because we are not only talking about it, but more money – we have heard it – is also being made available for assistance to people on the ground in Syria or Iraq, so that people do not even want to get on the move, and also more money for bilateral development cooperation in order to drive forward projects in the African area so that people there have a perspective. There's more money for that. In particular, I would like to stress that Austria is the best EU country with regard to the donation of the EU Trust Fund for Syria, which helps directly on the ground and actively supports people there. Mr Cap, I believe that the debate on a European army is necessary. I can't imagine any armed forces, either, but if the Americans are really serious and don't support Europe, it's important that we do our own homework. What I think is necessary, sooner or later, is that in Europe we can take care of our own interests and defend them accordingly and protect ourselves, for example at the EU's external border. In conclusion: Part of foreign policy is also an active regional policy in Europe. There has been an initiative by Niederösterreich and Landeshuptmann Pröll to continue an active regional policy from 2020 onwards. 339 partners from 22 Member States have joined in saying: Yes, we need a renewed active regional policy in order to realize projects in Europe and thus create jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17918	Mr Bösch spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e17939	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Berlakovich, with regard to the EU army, I have to give Mr Cap the right, because, as I believe, he has stated, it is very important that all the Member States of the European Union retain their right to a sovereign decision when and where their armed forces are used. As long as this European Union is not capable of action, Mr Berlakovich – as long as this European Union is not capable of action! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Pendl]] Mr President, we have already raised a number of aspects in this area. I have also said that we must reject everything that goes in this direction here until we have found a real regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Foreign Minister and Mr Klubobmann of the ÖVP have gone a little superficially beyond our request for freedom, which has the substance that we want to make the payment of development aid conditional on the willingness of these countries to resume from our side as illegal deputies. . We were serious about this, and Mr Hübner, too, did not mean that cynically when he said he wanted to support the foreign minister's policy here. We should like to know what you mean, Mr Klubobmann. That's what we're talking about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also about finances! We are talking about millions of money that the European Union has paid for and that is going to go abroad in vain, because we do not meet the crucial needs we have towards these countries. We believe it is essential that these return agreements are also set in motion and that the Republic of Austria, if the European Union fails in these areas too, will act independently – and the Foreign Minister has always announced this. We would like to support you, Mr Foreign Minister, in the Councils – that is, in your Council at European level – so that you can present this concern to the Member States of the EU there with the necessary emphasis. You have also shown, when closing the Balkan route, that you are able to realize something that is in the sense of Europe as a whole. We want to strengthen you in this policy. We Liberals see you on a good path, and you should not do this here, Mr Lopatka! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the closure of the European external borders is an important element of European policy, but unfortunately it does not work. Only since the office of Minister of the Interior Sobotka has been in office – and I congratulate you, Federal Minister, it has only happened since you were in office! –, says the government on this difficult subject immigration and rescheduling illegally the truth. I am pleased, and I would like to encourage you to continue working in this sense and not be seduced by any people, since no longer to tell the truth. You have clearly stated that in the first half of the year, 4 570 asylum seekers were already exposed, already identified by the authorities. They have also declared that 40 000 illegal opponents have been attacked by our authorities – 40 000 illegally opposed, more than 37 500 who want the Federal Government to bring foreigners to this country every year, and we already have the nearly 100 000 illegal subscribers from last year with whom we do not finish! Mr Federal Minister, you should also tell the truth about the return of these people to their homelands with regard to the integration of these masses which we have here in the country. Returning to these countries will be a necessary consequence of asylum status because asylum is a right to time. They should give these people pure wine – I think this is just fair – and tell them that most of them will return to their home countries, because at least of them will find a job or an apartment, sufficient Learn German and integrate into our society. Do this, Minister! Prepare these people for their return!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18018	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18039	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Karlsböck, I suggest that you either stop putting untenable notions into the room, namely that Austrian development funds would simmer into any dubious channels, or you put facts on the table. This is also interesting for us, because it is in our all interest that this does not happen. The free strategy of saying anything with the intention to pick something up once, regardless of whether it is true or not, is not a very fruitful one, and I would really ask you to stop it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, I welcome the increase in this small part of the large cake of development cooperation, which can be modelled bilaterally. However, I would like to point out that this represents only about 7.1 percent of the total development cake; the increase corresponds specifically to 0.02 percent of gross national income. So that alone we will not be able to achieve our target of 0.7% of the gross national income for EZA, so an increase is useful. However, what is really painful and what I think is not very successful is that most of the fresh money will obviously flow into projects in Iraq and Afghanistan. These are not key countries in Austrian development cooperation, and our coordination offices in countries in which we have been making projects for years and in which we can also make truly sustainable development cooperation and development policy in the truest sense of the word – which has nothing to do with migration defence, which development policy could not do at all – are further starved and are not well equipped both financially and personnel. In spite of all this, I criticize that. Apart from this very moderate increase, I think it is important that we continue to address structural problems and challenges, such as, for example, a politically sound stage plan for the entire ODA, and not only for the small part that concerns the bilateral area that we have by 2021. I also believe that a legal anchoring of the development policy-shaping bilateral budget is important for me, just as we already have with the IFIs, for as long as bilateral designable EZA funds are only discretionary expenditure, these funds will always be the victims of any necessary reductions, and that is not sustainable. In addition, I think it is important to increase our share of development aid, which goes very specifically to the Least Developed Countries, that is, to the very poor countries. The expansion of our EZA in our eastern neighbours is not necessarily a contribution to meeting these international obligations. I still consider it extremely necessary that we finally work on a overall development strategy. Franz-Joseph Huainigg, no, the three-year programme is not a overall development strategy! That's what we've done enough. Just wanting to write something on it doesn't use anything, you really have to put it on as such. An overall strategy must address sustainable development policy coherence. It must be provide a plan for how we can well fulfil the international, developmental share of the SDGs. We must really be able to implement all of these principles of effectiveness which we have decided in Paris, Accra, Busan et cetera. And we need strategies for humanitarian aid as well as for the multilateral organisations we teach. All in all, we are on the right path – very slow and with many complaints – but I think there is a lot to do to put development policy in Austria on two really strong and well-knit legs. I still hope that there is a willingness to continue to discuss this politically. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18093	The next speaker is Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18115	Mr President. Mr. Ministers! High house! I should like to raise another issue in the field of foreign policy, which is also closely linked to internal policy. We have already discussed the question of the ethnic groups in Austria around noon. I think, of course, we all agree that they need the best possible support, that is no question at all. In this context, we have also discussed the budget and have to note that there has long been no increase. On the one hand, we have in Carinthia – and this must not be forgotten – of course a very good country promotion of the Slovenian-speaking minority, on the other hand we did a few years ago – in 2011, if I have it right in mind – it was possible to achieve the historic compromise on the issue of the local panel, which I personally thought was very important. It was, I think, very central that we found a solution. At the time, however, we also noted that, of course, there must also be measures to do – and I think that is, quite essential – something for the German-speaking old-Austrian people group in Slovenia, or to do something in addition. In this context, I should like to remind you of a 2012 request that we have decided unanimously here in the House, as I believe. We have said that, as the Republic of Austria, we want to work towards official recognition of this old-Austrian German-speaking minority in Slovenia. This decision was taken almost five years ago. If you look at these five years retrospectively, there has not really been much happening. On the contrary: You have the feeling that it's more of a game on time and it doesn't really happen there. There is no pressure on Slovenia. There's hardly any activity when you ask for it. On the other hand, it must be noted that no major financial resources are being spent to help this German-speaking minority in Slovenia. Today we have discussed the ethnic groups in Austria, and it is, I believe, clear that there is a great deal of money or a special support to guarantee a people's group survival. This is not the case, however, as we had to know from the Committee on Budgets. Once again, there is only a small support amounting to € 20 000, but this can only be retrieved on request. As a matter of fact, then, it is not intended to do something about it. It makes a little bit of a feeling that this In time, the aim is to ensure that there is no longer a German-speaking minority in Slovenia at any time. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen – my colleague Johannes Hübner always points out – there are a number of expenditures in the field of the foreign policy budget, which are very questionable or support missions within the United Nations. There is really a lot of money on the head, not knowing exactly what it is for, for example, for the implementation of a referendum in Western Sahara at € 1 million a year, in 2016 even € 1.8 million for provisional United Nations security forces in Abyei, a small city in Sudan, is spent a lot of money, and so on and so on. There you can rightly ask why we do not also provide our old Austrian minority in Slovenia with appropriate funds, or even the German-speaking minorities in the successor states of the K.-u.-k. monarchy do not provide appropriate funding. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the following request from Mr Mölzer and Mr Riemer and other Members: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18194	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Mölzer is sufficiently supported and therefore properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18252	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18274	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the budget of Looking at foreign and integration ministries, three areas are equally positive: increasing the funding in the area of bilateral cooperation by €17 million – this is a first step towards the increased doubling of the ODA quota by 2020 – and increasing the amount of contributions to international organisations by €39 million and the area of integration, which is also strongly increased from €50 million to €92 million. In contrast, the network of representation has remained at the same level, although there have also been some major changes in some areas. it has. This means, for me, that the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration is responding to developments quite quickly. For example, in the area of the peaceful co-existence of different cultures, this means that efforts must be made to integrate people who come to us for different reasons as quickly as possible. Of course, integration also has to do with peaceful living together, that is, the better these people are integrated, the better they can take on work, for example, the better they speak German and can therefore also have contacts with the native population, the better living together will succeed. This includes not only German courses – 35 000 places are offered at least – but also value courses. Successful living together also means putting a few basic values out of dispute and defining it as a binding standard. This includes the issue of equality between women and men, as well as the value of free religious practice or the issue of non-discrimination, and therefore a very clear commitment to the content of the proposed changes in integration law. It is clear that the strong increase in funds in the field of international organisations is also a command of the hour, because if people in war and crisis areas get even less support from international organisations in the most difficult situations, because these organisations have just been removed, this logically increases the pressure on migration. It is, of course, about enabling people to survive and live in their own home country. I have mentioned the network of representations, messages and consulates et cetera, and I would like to say: Of course, it would be nice to have a diplomatic representation all over the world, but there are also budgetary constraints. The funds then shift so that some embassies, such as the Baltic embassies, are gradually closed, as these countries are also well connected via other structures, and to open up new embassies in regions such as the Black Sea region, as this is a region that opens up interesting perspectives in different ways, economically, but also geopolitically, I think is a correct development and a correct response to change. In summary, you can say: It is a budget that can be seen and can be done properly with the important tasks ahead of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18322	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18343	Mr President. Mr Wolfgang Sobotka, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to comment briefly on our budget as Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs and say that I am very grateful for the success of ensuring a return to the foreign ministry. After a decade of savings, especially in the field of development cooperation, we have managed to launch a trend change thanks to many supporters, but also thanks to the understanding of the Minister of Finance. More Would Always Be It is desirable, and it is still a long way ahead of us to achieve our development cooperation objectives, but we are grateful and happy that we have succeeded in making a quadruple and a doubling of bilateral development cooperation by 2021 in the field of the foreign disaster fund. I am glad that with this money we can alleviate the suffering of people in other parts of the world a lot and make a contribution to the fact that people there have a bit more tolerable living conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the area of integration, the funds have also been increased, from € 55 million to € 92 million. This is an important increase in a year in which there is a much higher degree of need than in the past. 90 000 refugees have come to us last year, and this year the figures are very high. This means a great effort in integration work. Of course, many funds are not managed in our ministry, but are provided by other ministries, by the countries and by the communities, but we also make a big contribution, especially in German courses, value training and in many other areas. I am glad that it was possible to increase our resources. We must also be very economical not only in these areas, but also in the area of our network of representation. With 99 representative authorities, we thank God for the opportunity to cover directly or indirectly all the countries of the world. We strive to ensure a maximum of service for the Austrians, but also for the Austrian companies, with the resources we have available. This is done with a limited amount of resources, and I would therefore particularly like to thank the staff of the Ministry who make it possible to maximize these funds. – Thank you for the great work.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18389	Mr Schmid has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18410	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The continuing wave of war and even more economic refugees makes it necessary for our Federal Ministries to cooperate more closely – both in the matter and financially, with the budget being clearly observed. To address specifically is the cooperation of the Ministry of Defence with the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The European Union has now proved more than enough that it is unable or not interested in monitoring or protecting the external borders. Our budget is also burdened by this abuse. She, the EU, prefers to pack with an Erdoğan Turkey and casts all European values overboard, because we all agree on the human rights situation in Turkey, not to mention payments to Turkey, which would never be the subject of secure external borders. It cannot be accepted that this Turkey will continue to be expected to join the EU and, above all, as a dubious performance premium, a visa and therefore unlimited travel freedom should be granted. A very undemocratic Turkey, whose territory is definitely not in Europe, has no right to join a democratically led EU. It will be the Let us secure our own borders, because neither the EU nor Turkey is left behind! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18446	The next speaker is Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18468	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! The main financial cornerstones of the external budget have already been addressed by almost all speakers. It is quite welcome that more money will be used for development cooperation and also for integration. In view of the variety of challenges posed by wars and crises in the world, in which our Federal Government is to help solve this problem, foreign and development policy has been given a new important role, of course, also in financial terms. It is therefore appropriate to welcome an elevation in any case. In the future, our focus must also be on taking peace policy measures to eliminate the roots of escape and migration and to develop life prospects for people in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address our neighbours in South Tyrol briefly. The South Tyrol, the Italians are facing a constitutional referendum. Prime Minister Renzi has highly stylized this as the mother of all reforms, there is enormously high emotional potential. The aim is to reduce the number of senators, change the term of office of the senators, redefine the Constitutional Court, change the electoral mode for the President of the State, and in particular – now we come to South Tyrol – there is a new debate on centralism. Rome wants to remove many responsibilities from the regions, especially in the field of energy, infrastructure, health and civil protection, and we are now, of course, in the autonomy of the South Tyroleans and in the concerns that now prevail in South Tyrol. In all the discussions you have with South Tyrol colleagues – I do not know at present any party or organisation that would have an opinion, neither for nor against the referendum. This goes all over South Tyrol, and all the institutions have different views. I therefore welcome the fact that tomorrow in the House, at the initiative of the South Tyrol speakers and in particular of the colleague Neubauer, we are talking to two people – not to decide on one side, but to get the most authentic interpretation of the mood down there, because the official sources of information are obviously complete. Despite several commitments, we do not receive any official information, and therefore it becomes important that we commit and discuss ourselves here tomorrow. ==References== December has enormous explosive power. We want to be prepared, and as SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, we are and remain a reliable partner for the further development of South Tyrol autonomy. I'm sure we're not going to have to go back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18508	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18545	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr. Kristi, I have to disagree with you, unfortunately: Not all South Tyrol parties are divided in the South Tyrol question and in relation to the referendum. The SÜD-TIROLER FREEDOM has strongly recommended that this referendum be rejected because it brings more centralism and massively circumscribes the rights of the South Tyroleans. I therefore believe, Minister of State, that you should look at Italy and South Tyrol with a very, very watchful eye and observe what was happening on 4 April. December is happening, and we will then see whether they really make the Austrian defence power clear, as it is and how the Austrian Parliament and the Austrian people want it to have. So now I go on to the budget, because of course we are discussing the budget. Mr Bundesminister Kurz, yes, it is gratifying that more budget is available for you. – The question is always how to allocate the budget. Now we know that integration measures are of course important when immigrants, migrants, enter the country. The question is always what the funds are really used for and with what emphasis, so that the money is also well invested. I hope that you, as Minister for Integration, will also put in place appropriate measures and control them well, so that the money is also used usefully. On the topic of foreign policy, Minister for Foreign Affairs: You know, at the last budget, I have already criticized the fact that in the Baltic States all messages are left out. After the EU Presidency of Estonia, the Austrian Embassy in Tallinn is also being abandoned. This hurts me a little, because I think that the Baltic is a region in which Austrian entrepreneurs – and especially smaller entrepreneurs – also have a chance, because in the large markets, in the big mega-states, where everyone mixes, the Austrian small businesses are somewhat disadvantaged. We would have seen a sensible possibility that, with intensive work in the Austrian embassies and representations, the Austrian companies would have received some support in this area, and it is sad that this is not so easy now. One point that is very important to me – you know that from the committees – is the relocation of immigrants who have become subject to criminal penalties in Austria, or migrants or asylum seekers, or whatever we call them. Of course I'm worried about that. You know, Minister, that we can't get these people away so easily; we have often discussed that. The problem is that the states from which they come do not take them back. If I now hear that the budget for development cooperation is being increased, then I do not find it negative that one is doing development cooperation and that there is money in it to implement reasonable projects, but there is also a limit somewhere, if one simply invests money in a state and then, in German said, on the head... – Point, point, point – let's leave. If we now take Morocco – you said it in the committee itself – We have a lot of criminals from there in Austria who are not entitled to asylum. But they are not taken back by Morocco because they are an economic factor for this country, because they send a lot of money from Austria, from Europe, and therefore Morocco does not take it back. Germany has concluded an agreement at bilateral level. Now one can say that we are not as big as Germany, but otherwise we would like to lean on Germany. Mr Minister, you would be asked to do so, and I call on you to conduct such negotiations in order to find a reasonable solution. We need reasonable rules to get these people back out of the country and to be able to protect our people from these people. In the event of an emergency, there is also a need to reduce or perhaps completely suspend the funds for development cooperation, perhaps in order to get Morocco to negotiate with us in a reasonable manner and to reach a good solution, and I expect that from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18602	The next item is Mrs. Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18623	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Foreign policy and economic policy are inseparably linked, and this budget also shows. Our active office policy not only has a political component, but above all also an economic component. Austria has a centuries-long tradition in the field of international organizations and meetings. Summa summarum makes a contribution of €1.5 billion to our gross domestic product. Mr Federal Minister, your efforts are therefore to be welcomed to seek out those EU agencies that have to leave London or Great Britain after the Brexit. Another important role of Austrian foreign policy is of course to represent the economic interests of Austria and the Austrian companies worldwide. With the company service, our entrepreneurs get excellent information about current political situations, but also development forecasts, which are, of course, very important decision-making aids for them. Also the 100 local representations in combination with the External Economic Organisation of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce support our businesses perfectly, and this is always praised by our economy. The Members have already mentioned this: It is gratifying that development cooperation funds have been increased. However, it is also important that the funds arrive on the ground in a sustainable manner, and there is a good means of addressing economic partnerships in addition to basic services. Over the last ten years, the Austrian Development Agency has supported 3 500 such projects with a total of € 1 billion. Last week, in the development dialogue in the Upper Austrian country house, an entrepreneur reported quite euphoric about how he entered into a partnership with you, Mr. Federal Minister, and your ministry and opened a bakery in Slums, where even a dual training was established. I think there are many opportunities in the area of infrastructure, considering that 1.2 billion people have no access to energy, and especially in the energy and water sectors, our companies have very great potential and very great know-how. Investment in this area also means sustainability, which is also measurable and verifiable, and this is particularly important in countries where corruption is very high. Mr Federal Minister, you are taking the right steps with your focus, in line with other countries, in development policy. In addition to basic care, this aid for self-help is mainly provided by the It is also essential to increase the leverage effect of the partnership.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18675	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18696	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of budget heading 12: Austria is making its contribution in every respect, including in development cooperation, and, above all, with regard to foreign disasters, Mr Minister. I mean, there's humanity, and I think you're doing great. This has often been demonstrated and is also true: not only in Austria, but also abroad, so the budget has also been increased by € 123.9 million compared to the 2016 budget. Thus, a budget of €551.9 million is available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister Kurz! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I firmly reject the EU's recent demands to set up its own EU here. Of course, your opinion would be requested, but I think you have already made your remarks. I mean, the EU in this form does not need its own army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18726	The next item is Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18748	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As an integration speaker of the Social Democrats, I am of course very pleased that the budget for integration measures has been increased. We also have new challenges, and now we have to start dealing with them. A problem that is becoming increasingly common is the duration of asylum procedures. I know that procedures in Austria take about eight months on average, but this is not true throughout the federal territory. Procedures in Lower Austria and Vienna really take a lot shorter, i.e. between three and four months. In other areas they last over a year. At the end of October, I had visitors from the Red Cross House in Frankenmarkt in Upper Austria with their supervisors to visit me in Parliament. There are young asylum seekers who have been in Austria for 14 months and do not even have the first interview behind them. That is, they do not benefit from all the measures at all, they depend on people who volunteer German courses and structure the day for them, just like this visit to Parliament or the Vienna Day. We now have a nice budget for integration measures, but now it will be important: When does this happen to municipalities, initiatives and rural areas? – It will depend on whether we are successful or not. Now we have taken the first nice step, we take money into our hands, and then we have to see when the money comes to the affected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Lopatka said in our words: “What we need, however, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, is the new integration law.” – Yes, dear ÖVP, dear SPÖ thinks so too! We need this, and our proposals are at the table, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Now you just have to talk to each other!]] [[Call the Stronach team: This is the Christmas peace!]] We have made our proposals. It is negotiated, there are points where we are close to each other, and there are points where we need to find compromises, and then there are red lines, including one-euro jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! One-Euro jobs are wage dumping for all working people in Austria. Lower Austria has recently shown us that everyone is now affected, and we do not want to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we are ready to negotiate, we want this law. I was quite surprised when I read last week that Mr. Federal Minister had just said that I was blocking the SPÖ. – No, I assure you, Federal Minister, that SPÖ is very interested in this law; we only need to continue negotiating. In this sense: thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18828	There are no more words to be spoken on the sub-division. This is the subject that is being dealt with. [[18:14:50]] UG 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18850	We come to the negotiation of Division 11: Interior. Mr Rosenkranz has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18874	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! We are now in the Security Chapter, and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has just left – I would have liked to say something to him about this law on integration, which has just been mentioned here. Because he has already said Islam belongs to Austria, I would like to say to him: No, Islam is not part of Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This, in my view, is about what culture means – Mr Walser, I ask you. – that in 1908 Bosnia-Herzegovina was annexed by the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and that is why a large Muslim population group was then integrated into the K.-u.-k. monarchy by Annexion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Walser]] Such an attack, such an act of illegal law, cannot mean that something becomes part of our culture, or am I completely mistaken? - But one thing is to say: Freedom of religion is of course granted in Austria. [[Ironian bravado with the greens.]] – applause from the greens, thank you. Of course, someone can confess to Islam, but what does not belong to Austria is Islamism. If I heard in the media yesterday that in France it was possible to prevent possible attacks, planned attacks on large traditional Christmas markets, then of course it is already possible to think; and the question arises: Does that interest us in Austria too? Mr Walser, and perhaps Mr Oellinger, too, I am delighted how you will succeed in presenting my speech, my statement here again as a fear of being a source of diffuse fear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] In doing so, I bring exclusively quotes from the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Control, from the ORF, from the daily newspaper “Kurier”, from the APA or from Interior Minister Grundböck. I'm already excited about how you need to get out of here this time. [[Abg. Walser: You're too scared!]] On the threat of Islamists, I quote from an interview in today’s Ö1 “Morgenjournal” with Peter Gridling, head of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism. Mrs Reichmann from ORF asks: “Mr. Director Gridling, there have been arrests in France, in the course of an anti-terror use a week ago, there was a large Salafist razzia in Germany. In Austria, little is heard of arrests. Is the situation here really so quiet or is the police acting so defensively here?" Peter Gridling: “I think the situation here is not as quiet as one may have to assume at times. We have repeatedly pointed out that Islamist terrorism is also a major threat to Austria. (...) The action ‘Lies!’ is an action assigned to political Salafism, and this political Salafism has been the starting point for many of the jihadists on the way to jihad. We see the ‘Lies!’ action skeptical.” Reichmann: “Would it make sense from your point of view to prohibit this action, or would you give this group a little bit to keep it under surveillance?” Grid: “Yes, there is for one and the other arguments. The current legal situation is as it is, and therefore the observation remains here." So I come to the action Read!. It is not an English word, it is the Imperative Singular, that is: You, read it now! – So it's a command, the form of command: Now take the Qur'an and read it. In Germany, there have been similar actions, since even the association of Salafists was banned, which do so. In Austria, we are lacking the legal basis, but the ban on the free distribution of the Qur'an remains subject to implementation. We know or the BAT knows the problem of recruiting here. Now some politicians say: Well, it's not that easy with us. – It has gone, in Vienna Neustadt! Our city councillor Michael Schnedlitz then enforced under a SPÖ mayor in Wiener Neustadt that the free Koran distribution in the district of Wiener Neustadt was prohibited within the framework of the local police. So they can do that – congratulations on it! In the same breath, the future ex-citizen of Vienna, Michael Häupl, says in October 2014: However, this is difficult under constitutional law in Vienna. “Constitutional protection must ensure that there is no recruitment (...). The excuse that there would be no legal handling is pure laziness and intellectual laziness.” – words of the great chairman Häupl in Vienna. Now we learn and read that Mr Foreign Minister Kurz, who was just there, has also introduced a legislative initiative for security in that country, namely an integration law, in which, in addition to the Burka ban and in addition to the question of these non-profit jobs, the issue of the ban on the distribution of the Koran is to be resolved so that not every place has to adopt its own local police regulation. This is absurd, that every community has to take care of us, although it is actually a federal issue, and we are unable to regulate it by law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18945	Ladies and gentlemen, could I hear the word budget?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18960	Mr President, of course! We are in the field of security, and I would like to bring it in such a way that you do not take away from me due to this interlocutory question.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e18992	That was on the verge of a call for order. If I call you on the matter – and you did not talk about it, but about security, but not the security budget – I ask you to take note of it and not teach me.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19019	Mr President, I am now hearing, for the first time in your second explanation, the text 'to speak'. You have just asked me to put the word budget in my mouth, but perhaps this is simply not possible when it comes to free speech alone. However, I will, of course, comply with your request to “speak” immediately, just as in all the talk about it, because it is necessary to bring this law to the fore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pilz]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] We know, in fact, what infinite financial resources we need to use in the internal security budget in order to counteract radicalisation in order to prevent jihadism. In order to prevent those who go into the war of ISIS and returnees, measures are necessary, and we need financial resources to do so. We read this in the budget figures. I would also like to refer to the explanatory statement in the motion for a resolution which you should already have. The introduction already includes the corresponding budget, for example the increase of €440 million. That means that this measure is very clearly about savings measures, because if we prohibit this distribution of the Koran, it will stop radicalization, ladies and gentlemen. And then I hear that this law should be blocked. We believe that this blockade can have an end if only one takes seriously the proposals made by Mr Bundesminister Kurz in his speech and in the media very large and credible. I am already looking forward to the approval of this budget in terms of savings, because I will now put forward a motion for a resolution which, when implemented, will permanently bring about the corresponding cost savings. I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Since this accompanying measure has also been budgeted for the security offensive, the relationship with the budget to be discussed and voted on and, unfortunately, rejected by our side is imperative here too.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19094	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosary is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. This does not prevent me, however, from drawing your attention, Mr Rosenkranz, to the fact that there are a few budget figures in the Preamble, but, of course, the text of the resolution does not refer to the budget and to the chapter discussed. However, because of your statement, in which you claim to be able to achieve a longer-term savings in the budget – which I do not find in the application text – I accept the request. However, I ask all Members to accept in future that the mere listing or the mere introduction of a link in the Preamble, which is then not reflected in the text of the resolution, cannot be sufficient to establish the factual context. Because of your statement, with which you have just taken the curve elegantly, I accept the request. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19270	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19292	Mr President. Federal Minister! I should like to start the budget debate on the internal chapter, after Mr Rosenkranz has only used the word budget by means of a rhetorical trick. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Deimek.]] We all know that security is a great asset! For prosperity and well-being, the public's sense of security is a central point, and especially in troubled times like those in which we are undoubtedly in, it is the task of politics to give the population security according to it. This must also be reflected in the priorities of a budget. This present security budget brings a number of offensive measures to the security area. In addition to the field of internal security, I would also like to address the area of national defence today, because in both areas massive efforts and offensive measures are being made to increase security in the country and the security of the population. The budget of the interior resort increases by € 440.5 million compared to 2016. It is clear from looking at the individual measures that these additional resources are also available to the population: The police are becoming more visible because human beings are being increased accordingly, and with this the security is also being represented. Compared to 2014, which is essentially only three years old, the staffing position in the field of the interior has increased by 3 000 officials, and this shows a significantly higher presence in the service. But it is also planned – and I think this is very, very important – that this additional money is also invested in the equipment. Both are necessary: On the one hand, we need more police officers, on the other hand we also need better equipment. In my view, it is unacceptable that almost 2,000 officials were injured in the service. I think we have to take care of this by means of appropriate equipment. The challenges in the security field are diverse and demanding, we know. The budget sets out clear priorities in the area of combating terrorism and also in combating cybercrime. In addition to maintaining public peace, order and security, however, there is a very essential concern, namely to strengthen the individual's subjective sense of security. I think it's about the presence of the police, it's about prevention, it's about protection against property crime and protection in their own four walls. I think with the project Together – Mr Federal Minister – I am very, very grateful to you for the fact that this is being rolled out across the board – we can take into account this sense of security of the population and strengthen the contact between the population and the police in a sustainable way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler:... wait a bit!]] As responsible for civil protection in Upper Austria, I can also thank you for this budget providing for the expansion of digital radio throughout Austria. Some federal states already have that, others are being tracked. This means that we are also well positioned in the protection of disasters. I am convinced that, and I would also like to thank the Government, especially the Minister of the Interior, for taking into account security needs, and that this security budget is a clear indication of the security of the population in Austria. I would like to thank you for that. We will, of course, vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19340	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19362	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I have a certain understanding that my colleague, Rosenkranz, sees only Islam on internal security. You can find the key to this in the publication “The Five Pillars of Islam” in the chapter “Lexikon of Islam”. There is under the keyword Rosary: “The Rosary is a chain of prayers with pearls and a med-itative means of prayer in honor of Allah.” [[Cheerfulness to MEPs of Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] ‘The Muslim Rosary consists either of 99 or 33 pearls.’ [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The Muslim!]] “The Christian Rosary is based on the Muslim model.” Dear colleague Rosary, I fully understand that you are interested in working out your Muslim roots, but please, please don't do it constantly in the plenary session of the National Council! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] I don't understand this Islam possession. Of course, there is a problem with Islamic-motivated terrorism. We all have to take this seriously. There are Muslim extremists from terrorist organizations, such as the Gamaa Islamija. Do you know who the Gamaa Islamija is? – This is the terrorist organisation that carried out the 1997 Luxor attack, in which 62 people, 58 of them tourists, were killed. Among them are three reigns called Muhammad al-Fiqi, Osama Suleiman, and Amer Abdel-Rahim. These three were here in Parliament at the invitation of a Member of the National Council. The National Council, which has invited, was the liberal Member of Parliament. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] Why does a liberal MP invite Islamic Egyptian terrorists to the Austrian Parliament? – But not to practice the Rosary, there will probably be some other reasons! Finally, put your connection to the Muslim Brotherhood, which reaches to Parliament, on the table. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I know that on the one hand, like a pipe patch, and on the other hand, where no one would touch us, I am invited to this Parliament. [[Abg. Oils:... Do business!]] You have the responsibility to do this! You are the first and only group to invite Muslim terrorists to Parliament! - That's not a small thing. Minister of the Interior, I would ask you to take this seriously and not only to examine the Freedom Party in connection with its close human and political relations with organised extreme right-wingism and violence, such as the close links between strategism and identities, and to report on the constitutional protection, which looks very closely at it, but also to explain how we, as Members of this House, come to see that liberal MPs invite Islamist terrorists and extremists to this House. Mr Innenminister, I would like to ask you for a report on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19459	Deputies! Can I ask you to come to the subject now?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19475	Mr President. I wanted to do this right now, because in order to be able to do this well, we need the constitutional protection which is currently completely overburdened, especially in order to support the public prosecutor's office in the field of Islam and in the far right. This constitutional protection can no longer fulfil the necessary second task, namely the intelligence of intelligence in the Islamic and Right-Right-wing spheres, due to its human and weak occupation. I ask you, Minister of the Interior: Why is this area surprisingly budgeted and why is the constitutional protection not finally extended together with a much stronger parliamentary control? – Of course, it is not without parliamentary control, as we have long agreed in this House. This is where, if the Ministry of the Interior did not constantly address us, we would have installed an exemplary control as a Member of Parliament. However, this is a task that we ourselves have to undertake, and I also ask the MEPs from the ÖVP to stop talking about by the Minister. Second point: We also need additional officials who are concerned about the increasing extremism and intervention, including the violent intervention of ACP-near groups, groups controlled by the Turkish government. I am just coming from a multi-day stay at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. If I bring one, then the knowledge that the Turkish government is not only mercilessly suppressing any democratic opposition, any free reporting, all that exists in democracy and the rule of law, but is building up more and more bridge heads abroad. Mr Rosenkranz, for your little book: The Turkish population, the residential population in Vienna, is my personal experience according to the most peaceful ethnic minority we have in this Republic. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not the way it is! ... demonstrations!]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: Demonstration is not...!]] We simply have to stop that from being financed by foreign countries and lead individuals to organise demonstrations, attack businesses, beat front gardens in a short and small way, and export Turkish states to Vienna. – We must not let that happen! This goes all the way to the Islamic community, Minister of the Interior! If you believe that you will find conspicuous partners today at the head of the Islamic faith, I will warn you! These reigns are financed by the Turkish religious authority and work closely with the three residents of the Turkish intelligence service MēT at the Turkish Embassy. It is bad enough to know that large parts of the Islamic community today are funded and instrumentalized by Erdoğan. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Minister of the Interior, together we must look at the fact that, for associations such as the UETD, as for MÜSðAD – where ÖVP delegates also find themselves and, regrettably, some persons closely connected to the Foreign Minister, I hope that this will soon end – create clear conditions. We must make it clear in this area that neither the Minister of the Interior nor the representatives of Parliament are patient with those who can be instrumentalized by Erdoğan, who create dissatisfaction in this country and incite minorities in that country to each other and allow them to exercise tolerance. Last point: I'm trying to help you with one thing: The Turkish government needs clear signs! They told us quite clearly in Istanbul: We're squeezing at your political positions. We do not care what decisions you take in the European Parliament, in the Austrian Parliament. Why don't you just slip us down, all of you European democrats? We don't need you, we ignore you! The only thing that the rulers feel is economic sanctions. It is time to impose the first sanctions, and the most natural penalty, the first, most important and most clear, is a total arms and military embargo against Turkey. Minister of the Interior, I ask you to support this, not only for the many democrats, journalists and journalists who all need our support, but also for our own security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19535	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19557	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! It's always the same! When I think of this morning when the debate started, everyone once said: Well, that's all, just not a balanced budget! For God's sake, debts are made again! I have seen for many years that every budget chapter is producing all the members of the opposition here and demanding more money for its area. I think we all know when we take a pencil in our hands and start expecting that it's not possible. I believe that this budget, which is available here for discussion and decision-making, is a good budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I would add that there are many investments in many areas of policy, but above all I would like to thank the government for having a proper security budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, I also do not wish to miss out on this budget debate as well as on the understanding we have in relation to the normal investments – equipment, procurement, all areas of all breakdowns of the department. I particularly like the approach to strengthen the PIs, both in terms of equipment and in terms of planning sites, because these are the first ones – no matter what happens – among citizens or in the respective situation. This is also really an important step for our police. I believe that our police are doing great things, so we should at least thank them for this budget debate. I'm very happy to do this and I'm convinced of it. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Pilz and Mr Hagen on his report.]] It almost stifled me today when I heard the statements on the amount of the budget. At this time at a budget of 3.5 billion €, a 14 percent increase, that is, of about 440 million €, and to say, that's all too little – well, then I don't know! We have already experienced other times. That is why I say again: That's a good budget. Of course you can ask everywhere, it may be a little more. We know that. But we have to assess the figures very objectively here, and I believe that at a time when the technology is running away from us, if I think only of the cyber sector or of all this specialization trend also of the police organizations, all of which can be found in the budget. We need executives today, we need experts in the Federal Office, from the foreign and asylum sectors to technicians and scientists to the cyber sector. All this can be found in this Budget, because the budget is figures of policy. I believe that we have discussed in detail where we need to start. We already have the joint commitment to provide our executive forces, but also the administration, that is to say the whole area of the interior, the necessary resources and equipment. And that's all in the budget if you want to find it. This area is far too serious and far too important in understanding the political debate. When it comes to the safety of Austrians, one should at least acknowledge: That's a decent budget. – That’s no question at all for me. I still remember exactly how many planning sites we had, how many we lost then, how we got them back. I know there are shared opinions about this: Nevertheless, there are now more 1 000 planning posts, actually even more, when I count them together with those of the BFA. – If it is always said that it is all too little, then in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it does not believe anyone anymore. We should at least consider a few policy areas in which we tell our citizens that we are working together – because this is about security, because it is often about life – to try to do the best for our homeland, for the Austrians. I invite you to make sure that we give our police officers everything they need and that they themselves are safe. I wish our fellow Members, all the security forces in this Republic, that they always get in the way – even from their difficult efforts – because life and security are the greatest good. I invite you to give your consent to this excellent security budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19630	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19651	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Much has already been mentioned, and I believe that Otto Pendlist has addressed practically everything – extremism, personnel, material adaptation of the police to dynamic security situations, protection of police officers, return problems. If you think that's all that's in this budget: don't do it! We do not necessarily find everything in it, even if we look particularly closely, especially with regard to detailed breakdowns. I would like to draw attention to the area of cybersecurity, which is quite an important area for individuals and for the state itself. Everyone can be relatively easily sacrificed without warning. We do not even know many threats in this area, and there are new ones. Cybercrime is generally a difficult-to-understand phenomenon, both in terms of legislation and in terms of enforcement, which is faced with completely new challenges. The Cybersecurity Act will therefore also be a necessary building block. What's cybercrime? – In the narrower sense, these are crimes committed through IT systems, data or computers. In the wider sense, the Internet is used as a communication platform for this, including fraud crimes with crime crime with crime scene Internet, hate postings, Silk Road et cetera. - You know that. Cybercrime is only very diffuse in public perception and reporting. The danger is partially neglected. Information and communication technology is a constant companion and new crime phenomena are emerging. It can be assumed that there is also a larger dark field. The more devices, the more interfaces we use, the more we network digitally, the more the vulnerability of the systems increases. A large number of awareness-raising and professionalisation measures are also expected to increase in this area. Especially have cases of fraudulent data abuse, Ransomware, malware and so on. They know all these emails, which represent themselves as amazingly real, but they do not actually come from these senders and senders. There alone, the number of cases increased by 60 percent from 2014 to 2015 – but the number of cases is relatively small, it is a few hundred cases – from 404 to 647 cases. That is to say, statistics – and that is what we can assume – represent reality in this area only extremely inadequately. Cybercrime can be prevented or combated by the fact that, first of all, we ourselves become more cautious in dealing with these things, not believe everything, not click on everything, that, of course, the police in this area, too, are better upgraded – human, structural and also technical – and that third is well worked together internationally. Prevention begins at the weakest place, and that is, of course, man. Of course, we can ask ourselves whether we really need refrigerators to order the milk. That's always the cute example of Internet of Things, but that doesn't go by any way. In addition, there will be an increase in the volume of data and the current level of networking will be much higher. The question is how to deal with this. – This question, of course, is also related to the budget, which is how the measures in the field of cybersecurity look like in the budget, and it will be difficult to find specific key figures, which cannot be derived from the budget. In comparison, we can see the budget for national defence, because the German army has mentioned at least global figures: By 2020, for example, 250 to 350 additional new employees will be added, with 1 350 employees in the final development, and at least €46 million for hardware and software equipment by 2020. The Minister of the Interior has promised to deliver concrete figures in the Committee on Budgets. We hope these numbers come. Cybercrime and cybersecurity will become a global challenge. The cooperation between the police and the federal army is also important. Prevention is important, but it is also important to define the areas of responsibility clearly.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19710	The next speaker is Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19731	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget for the internal sector is €3.5 billion and – Mr Pendl has already referred to it – with a plus of 14.6 percent – these are at least € 441 million, the the largest budget in the interior area since 1945. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this 14.6 percent increase reflects two aspects for me – and I have already said that in committee: On the one hand, it is not so often that we have budget increases of 14 percent and more. This is also an expression of the fact that we are in a very special situation in security matters, which is taken into account. This increase, however, also expresses a second point, namely that this Federal Government is taking the issue of security very seriously, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to congratulate you on this budget. I think it's good that we can equip our police as well as you can. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since it's always spoken about what it looks like to the staff: Of course, the main part, 61 percent of the total budget, is spent on staff. There are more and more people who claim that the figures on net growth do not agree, and in reality only the natural exits, the retirements, would fill up: This is simply not true, because net use of police in the period from 2009 to 2017 by 3 059 police is more effective than in 2008. To say that safety is not taken seriously is simply and simply wrong, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] I would also like to refer briefly to Mr Pilz, who has complained that the protection of the Constitution is no longer permitted and is no longer doing so. Well, Mr Pilz, I would have been glad if you had agreed to the State Protection Act. To quote you: They've never failed so successfully. – That was your statement in the debate. We would have liked to have more, a little more, but the measures that state protection law can take are successful and are good. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you, with great care, with incredible clarity, but above all with an admirable inconvenientness in very difficult times, and also my highest consideration for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19791	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19813	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The budget for the Ministry of the Interior looks quite good at first sight: an increase in budgetary resources. But if you look at it a little more accurately, then you'll see that 80 percent of the budget is for executives and 20 percent for asylum. Now you can say, okay, however, the budget is large, and you have had to spend money in the past, too, for the asylum sector. I believe, however, that the main pieces are going in there, mentioning that some positive measures are also included in the budget. I would like to take a brief look at this. I don't know if it's already been addressed: There is a better weaponry, there are equipment purchased for the executive, new helicopters for the fight against terrorism. These are all things that are necessary, and it is positive that now the money is finally made available for it. The Federal Minister also referred to in the Committee on Budgets that under-privileged vests will come and that they are currently in the test phase. I am very pleased, of course, because a few months ago I submitted a request for under-retirement vests for the executive, but it was still said at that time that it was not yet clear whether under-retirement vests were better than those for moving over, and that my request was rejected. I am glad that my request has been enforced because it is the better solution. At the time, however, it was only necessary to go out and talk to the police standing around Parliament, because those who bought themselves some of them would have told everyone that they were convinced of the underprivileged vests, and the others would have liked them, but perhaps they did not have the money for them. I therefore think it is positive, Mr Minister, that you should listen to the police staff. That's not what every minister did, I thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Another point I would like to address is, of course, the problem with the terrorists. It has already been said here: There is a big problem with the jihad returnees. My group would like to put forward a motion for a resolution. In short, to the explanation: I have called for some time ago that those jihad returnees who are not in prison or in detention – these are not so few who, for whatever reason, cannot be imprisoned – and who can be shown that they are coming back from Jihad, get a foot shackle. The police are supposed to be able to track the movements and actions of these people who come from a war zone that took part in a war, worked there and committed crimes. At present we do not have this possibility, the constitutional protection itself has said it is difficult. According to Peter Gridling, we have 288 returnees from Jihad – very clear cases, which are proven, not all of which are in prison. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The reason why I bring this up here is that this will also be budget-relevant, Mr Minister, since this monitoring, of course, costs money. I would like to give you the opportunity to take the right steps and to use these budgetary resources accordingly. Mr Minister, I know you are not averse to this measure, you once told me. I'm glad. As I said, I hold great pieces on you, Minister. You have recognized – you have already heard from colleagues Bösch today – where it goes. You speak At least take things honestly. This is very positive, and that is why you will be very much behind us by the Stronach team to protect the Austrians, and we will support this measure with full force if you initiate it. I would like to ask you, in the sense of the Austrians, to implement this measure also with your group, so that we can receive the consent of this request on Thursday. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19900	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation, although it is exactly the same as that of Mr Rosenkranz. I'll let him. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e19989	The next speaker was Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20011	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Dear colleagues! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! We are now discussing the breakdown 11, the budget of the internal unit. I am particularly pleased that we can provide €3.47 billion for the 2017 budget year, which is a total of € 440 million more than 2016, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to draw attention to a particularly encouraging point: the level of planning. It has been mentioned several times: In 2017 we will provide a total of 34 982 planning sites in the interior resort, 3 000 more than 2013. A colleague from the ÖVP has also mentioned it, it is about exactly 3 059 planning points more than 2008. Why this increase? – This is very easy to explain, we need more staff to do the necessary tasks. However, we also need to increase because in the years 2000 to 2006 the 3 000 police officers were rationalised and the tasks increased. I can also compare the relationship between existing planning points and the education rate. A few days ago, we discussed the 2015 Security Report, in which about 520 000 criminal offences have been reported a 44 percent information rate. Looking back to 2006, we had a reconnaissance rate of 38.9 percent in some 590 000 criminal acts. Looking back on the time before the police were reduced, we had a 51.4 percent education rate in 2000 with almost 500,000 criminal acts. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This makes it clear how important it is to have sufficient staff. For those who still do not believe that more staff also have a higher education rate, I would like to mention a report by “News”: According to this report, there is a 2005 Court of Auditors report, which showed the staff decline of the executives in the years 2000 to 2006, at the same time increasing ads, but also a dwindling awareness rate. Finally, there is a personal concern, Mr Internal Minister – we have already talked about it in the Committee on Budgets –: There are 1,000 police officers who have been injured in the service. Unfortunately, you have not yet given an answer to the question of how high the cost of the injured police has been in the interior. This is about the costs that have been incurred by overtime, but also by the repayments. In addition, I would like to ask for an information on regrets' demands – and I have not yet received them – that is, how high the rights of the perpetrators are, so that we can also use the corresponding transparency in the budget in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20059	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kumpitsch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20080	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Minister! You want to launch a security offensive with this budget. This is a goal that we fully support liberals, but you have to be careful that this offensive is not already going on in its development in the sand, and I will tell you why. € 440 million in addition to the security budget sounds good, but as Mr Pendl has already said: You can find all kinds of budgets. I have also found something, namely that we need to spend € 440 million of these € 121.9 million in addition to the basic provision of refugees – as you say – that we need € 40.1 million in order to increase the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum human resources – personnel that we need today, without any doubt, but whose need is basically due to the failure of the Federal Government last year, in which you have opened up the gate to Austria to thousands of migrants. You have to see that, and this is what the taxpayer has to pay! Ladies and gentlemen, if we can be pleased that we have 872 additional planning places, 650 of which are planned in the executive area, please allow me a review: For years now, we have been calling for more planning positions and more staff! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] And what did the population, at least in the Styria, get? - Locked police inspections! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pendl and Mr Plessl.]] As a result of the loss of capacity, we also have a problem finding suitable personnel that can be trained for the police service in the future. That's the reality! In principle, we will have fewer staff with the coming exits of the birth-like vintages than we are now. Now there's something to add, and I'd like to complain about this: It is not true that only the amount of the budget alone will do everything, but it should also be used usefully, and we will also waste tax money. I only remember the Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg, where, due to a dubious contract, the security firm cannot be terminated for 16 years and we pay €450 000 in the month, so that this contract will cost us €86 million in the final effect. That is also a burden on the budget! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or: Still at the Spielfeld border, there is an information panel whose information value is only waiting times – which it is true to show, but this information panel has to be operated manually and costs 7 186 € rent in the month. That's, please, in the year 86 000 €! Please stop that! That's an abuse of taxpayers' money! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, as a police officer I am now saying: Let's not leave the executive in the rain and put a sign today! Let us put a sign and agree with the motion for a resolution tabled by me, Mr Dr Walter Rosenkranz and other colleagues, whom I shall now bring in. [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be the appreciation that our executive really deserves. And now you have the opportunity to give your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20163	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20224	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20248	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Internal Chapter, many talk about the hard facts: the highest budget, most staff, not only domestically, but also abroad at the EU's external border. But the Ministry of the Interior also has its soft sides, and I want to highlight them today. The soft side is the one that the Federal Government has decided today to finally allow star children to be included in the register. [[Parliament adopted a resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the ……]] Thank you! Thousands of starchildren have longed for this. A petition brought in by thousands of people was discussed here in the National Council two years ago. We then adopted a resolution, and today we have come closer to giving the star children their dignity. These are children who were born under 500 grams and were not considered to be human because they could not be registered in the register. From today, or more precisely, after the parliamentary decision-making here, all star children's parents will have the opportunity to submit their children, to issue a death certificate, to provide them with an ultrasound image, to give them a commemoration and to thank them for being born as children. Today, the association, which has accepted this star child, wrote the following mail to members of the Federal Government: I can't tell you what's going on in my head and in my heart. I am so happy, and many, many star children's parents as well. Thank you! - Quote. That's what we're all joining.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20297	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20318	Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! I am now the eleventh Member who refers to this chapter of internal security and the first woman. I think we have 23 speakers on this chapter, of which two will be women, if I have seen it correctly. I therefore mention this because it is already a statement and says something about how we discuss security policy or what is understood very often by security policy, namely a reduction in police work – as much as I appreciate it and as much as I like it that there are. On the subject of security, social security, education justice and equal opportunities are constantly lacking. I would like to expressly mention that, as both a citizen and a woman, I very much enjoy the security I have in our country that I can walk home in the middle of the night. That is not a matter of course everywhere. However, I am Opinion that when we talk about security, we should mean something more than classical security work or police work. This will also bring me to an area that has been very strongly debated in recent weeks, namely the need-oriented minimum security, which has been severely under pressure. If it really, as the ÖVP wants, is covered at €1500, even for children-rich families who are in the demand-oriented minimum security, then we have to assume that this will result in massive poverty. All the crime experts will confirm to you that crime development also has to do with the so-called social question and the question of whether people find half-right chances of life. This brings me to the budget and I would like to draw attention to something that we have also briefly discussed in the Committee on Budgets, but, as we know, not all colleagues and colleagues are represented there. I or some of us have noticed that the funds for the company ORS, this profit-oriented company, which claims to take care of the care and accommodation of protection seekers, are almost doubled from 2016 to 2017. To remember: The refugee care was privatized under Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser, who in the meantime noticed with his saying “Of course I am a lobbyist”. At that time, the care of non-profit-making civil society organisations such as Caritas or Diacony or Volkshilfe was deprived and was transferred to one of the companies – but also profit-oriented at the time. Well, according to the homepage of this profit-oriented company ORS, which last year wanted to look after the protection seekers, the company made €2.5 million in 2015 – out of taxpayers' money. And I think when we talk about the budget and when we all repeat that the budget is cast into figures, then we should keep these two things in mind at the same time: on the one hand, a profit-oriented company that makes profit from tax money in the year €2.5 million – well noticed in that year, in which protection seekers are located in Traiskirchen to hundreds on the green meadow and have tried to organize private tents in order not to become completely wet when it rains. So this year 2015 this company made ORS €2.5 million – and at the same time we have a massive political debate that will reduce the neediest, the most needy – single-parents, chronically ill people, long-term unemployed – the need-oriented minimum security. But our Republic is supposed to have a lot more, apparently – question mark – enough money to support a profit-oriented company with €2.5 million – because the €2.5 million is only the pure profit. Ladies and gentlemen! I claim that this is part of a false security policy. This is part of a wrong government policy that saves the wrong place, namely to the most in need, to the poorest – and at the same time privatizes refugee care, so that profit-oriented companies are supported with the tax money to which we all contribute as citizens of this country. That seems to be what the ÖVP always means by “less state, more private”, so: The state may collect the taxpayers, but this will support people and profit-oriented companies who obviously don't care for refugees. One last word about extremism: As democrats and democrats, I assume we are all against extremism, right-wing extremism as well as religious fundamentalism, Salafism and political Islamism. As a citizen, but also as a representative of this House, I would like to see the constitutional protection of both of these extremes well in mind, pursued and also delivered results. In this sense, I hope that Austria will continue to remain one of the safest countries in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20385	Mr Schabhüttl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20406	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate listeners and spectators here and at home! Security is very, very important to people in our country. In order to be one of the safest countries in the world and to remain in the future, a corresponding budget is needed. With the largest security budget in the Second Republic with a volume of €3.5 billion, the framework conditions have been created for this purpose. I particularly welcome the fact that the Federal Government has made a clear commitment in the field of security in Austria. The 2017 budget allows us to make a large number of investments in security over the next few years, such as the comprehensive resumptions by the police, further investments in protective equipment, technology, vehicles, or adaptations of services. As a police officer, I support these measures and these investments, and I think they are important and right. Now it is only to be ensured that this money, these investments, will also come where they are urgently needed: at the base, at the specialists, at the executive bodies on the spot, which are working around the clock around our security. However, I would also like to make a second point here, which is not just about investment. It's about the 1,000 injured police officers or also about killed police officers. A thousand injured police officers in one year – this high number can't be nobody's ever mind here in the House. It can't be that there's no brake threshold against the police that the police, as executive organs of state power, keep coming under the wheels again and again through violent animosities. Nor can it be that in our country there are groups that do not recognize the state, which the police do not recognize and even take military action against it. These people, who are against our legal system, against our execution bodies, we must resist with all our strength. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore also call for a legal framework to be drawn up and decided in this House so that the number of injured police officers can again be significantly reduced. It will also be high time not only to change the legal framework and the police framework, but also to place the financial burden of this excellent work on solid legs. Those who stand up for us day after day, who are exposed to danger and injury, should not only be able to live on overtime and allowances, but should also be rewarded accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20445	Mr Lasar has now come to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20469	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, first of all, I would really like to congratulate you. That's what you have to say: The budget has been increased. It was done a lot, it was particularly much announced. But it must be said that now so many protective vests and many other things also – helicopters and so on – are coming new, also one thing: In recent years, nothing has happened to the executive. On the contrary, they didn't get anything at all! – The staff has not been increased. [[Call at SPÖ:The staff has been increased!]] That's what I'm going to talk about in detail. It's just that you know: I congratulate you, Minister. It was important that you raised the budget this year, and I hope it's a lot better. But now, for example, Vienna: daily robbery, violent attacks, assaults, rapes, drug trafficking. Minister, let's look at the numbers! In the area of drug trafficking or drug crime alone, 17 951 crimes related to drug use were reported from January to August 2016, 6 053 of them in Vienna alone. During the same period, 6 154 crimes in connection with drug trafficking were reported throughout Austria and more than 2,000 of them in Vienna. I can only say one thing now: For years your predecessor has also promised, we will receive more for Vienna – as Mayor Häupl has appealed to your predecessor – 1,000 to 1,500 police officers. - We haven't gotten any more to this day. There you are. If you look at what's going on at planning points – executive service offices: plus 646, state police directors: plus 568 – then you'll figure out how much we get in Vienna! – 50, 60, 70? That's all too little! Need only at the Praterstern You already have a lot more today, because they already take away a lot of capacity. You need to see that first, alone for Vienna! So much for you to know what's behind it, Minister of State. I mean, you'll know for sure, because you too have the numbers. Of all the offences recorded throughout Austria in the last six months, 43.7% were committed in Vienna. 43.7% of all crimes in Austria happen in Vienna. The second strongest federal state is Lower Austria with 13.7 percent, and finally it is that God is grateful, the Burgenland with only 1.8 percent of all crimes. [[Abg. Plessl: How many staff do the Viennaers have, Mr. Colleague?- Oh, my God!]] To do this, you have to say: It's important, Minister! Announcing is one thing, implementing a second. So I ask you: Put something on, don't stop constantly! That would be my request to you: far more police, especially for Vienna. We need this to protect all those living in Vienna. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Plessl.]] Finally, I would like to make another motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lasar and Dr Walter Rosenkranz concerning the exclusion of NGOs from participation in the asylum field: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can only say: I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20553	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20614	Mr Obernosterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20635	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! Mr Lasar, I listened closely to you. Let me say: Our Federal Minister does not announce that he is a translator, and that it is so, you will probably also see this budget. [[Abg. Lasar: Where are the 1,000, 1,500 police?]] There is an increase in the internal security budget by €440 million – the details have all been mentioned. Austria – and this has now been mentioned across all political groups, there is a clear commitment – is one of the safest countries in the world. We can be proud of this, but we must do so too. It is, I mean, one of the biggest and most important goods to have security in his home country. We have an interior minister, who also provides the budget, so that Austria continues to be one of the safest countries in the world. This is not only very important for the local population, it is also important for Austria as an economic location and for tourism. If you see how it is all around the world and also in many tourist resorts, there is no better message for tourism than the prospect of vacationing in a country in which security is guaranteed. It is a great task, it costs a lot of money, and every criminal act is a too much. We know that, but we can nevertheless say proudly that we are moving in a country where we are still relatively safe, especially when we look beyond our borders. Each one of you is also on the way in the world. Call me some state in this world, where you can still move in the night as freely – in the country or in the city, somewhere – as here with us in Austria. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is the increase of the police, there are the necessary means, and, as said: I think we're on the right track. We let the security cost us something, because that's us and we just have to be worth our state. Minister of the Interior, you and all the police and your staff: Thank you for continuing this clear line. You're a minister who doesn't announce you're a minister who's implementing! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20685	The next speaker is Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20706	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, the budget is also a step in the right direction from our point of view – you have to say that. Only one thing you have to say, of course: This budget was urgently needed to repair the asylum chaos caused by this Federal Government in September 2015. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would have liked this more of police officers at the time, who are now on paper with planning sites – I hope it will also be implemented. Mr Schabhüttl made a very correct and good speech on this – for a speaker of a government group of course excellent. But you have to say one thing: We also hope, Mr. Schabhüttl, that the budget will arrive at the base, at the police on the street. You have addressed the right issue, and we are lacking faith, because it is of course the case that most of these police officers or planning stations will lose themselves again, of course: in special areas such as asylum. You have to say that, of course. It is a repair of the 2015 budget, when the police were overburdened with their tasks and the asylum seekers or economic migrants – you don't know so well – simply got through the border. It is a step in the right direction, you can say so, and this is also supported by us. We hope, however, that the security measures for the police will also arrive on the street. Mr Sobotka, we hope – you prefer to talk – that you do not forget the border regions that you are increasing police presence not only in the agglomerations, but also in the border regions, in the rural regions. There, too, it would be urgently necessary. A proposal to really increase police security: To this end, it would already help to give police officers their own handbags in which everything is inside – shot-proof vests and, and, and, taking into account that protective equipment is only such if it fits – and not one is in any car and does not fit the police officer at all. Of course, this should be taken into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20746	Next, Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20767	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the debate on the internal security budget, we have already heard that maintaining public security and order is one of the key tasks of the state. There is no doubt about that. I expressly welcome – and I would like to stress this – the better financial facilities of the police and also the increase in the often rather tight staff cover. Ladies and gentlemen, the improvement of technical equipment in many areas is urgently needed and an important step. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior for the next few years is the highest in the history of the Second Republic department, which has been mentioned several times today. This is a step that is in itself correct, but it must be clear that security is a very diverse topic, it requires more complex answers than the simple equation: more money for the Ministry of the Interior is equally less crime. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in a globalised world, bilateral cooperation with our neighbours and other states is also needed within the framework of international organisations. This is very important from my point of view and is also being carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, one point that is very important to me personally: In order to prevent people from drifting into misery and poverty through which they are further driven into crime, a social system is needed, which allows a modest but decent life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am really very skeptical and concerned about the current competition of the social dumping countries with regard to minimum security. Finally, I would like to say that it is my hope that closing the staff gap with the police and investing in better equipment will facilitate the day-to-day work of police officers who are truly not easy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20815	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Sobotka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20837	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to thank you for the very intense debate so far. It shows that there are, of course, different points of view, but one thing I see as a great consensus in this House, namely that Austria is a safe country and we are all interested in maintaining the security situation in this country with all our powers. The police are a very essential partner, which brings expertise to mind, but it really matters to everyone. That is why we have also focused on a very specific project, namely: Together, I'm sure. I would ask you to join us as a political leader here in Parliament, but also outside the countries, because in this project we are not going to be able to deal with and fight all the issues and questions with the pressure of the police, the investigation and, finally, prevention. Rather, it is necessary to achieve a broad basis, to make a society of vision a society of attention. The project Together Safe has been tested in many countries. It has proved its worth in many countries, since on the one hand it strongly supports and strengthens the sense of security and, on the other hand, lowers the rate of crime and promotes the involvement of the population. This is very important to me because: If you look at the police work of the past years and decades, 40 years ago you just knew the police pressure. Twenty years ago, the focus was on criminal police prevention work. Today, the action together is safe to prevent the many possibilities of offences. I beg you It is therefore necessary It is very conscious at the beginning of my brief remarks on this subject. You have already noted: This is one of the biggest budgets, and it is the biggest increase because it is necessary to take account of the security interests of our countrymen. If I now present to you the figures regarding the staff, which ultimately constitute the backbone, the experts, then I am speaking only of the executive and not of other forms that are necessary in our department, such as the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum – there are also increases there, so that we can reduce the times until notification. Only in the executive was a staff increase of 1 350 forces carried out from 2009 to 2015, and we have also observed in Vienna the personnel plan, which was made up by my predecessor with mayor Häupl. In the years 2016 to 2020, 2 000 people are added – not as a substitute for retirement due to retirement – to 2 000 young police officers, who first serve in their police inspections, because there too the staff must agree with the staff at their disposal. This will not be possible anywhere, because we are concerned to create so-called human resources pools in the countries, in order to enable young women to go to Karenz, to stay in Karenz for longer or to be part-time employed. I think it is very essential that we thereby promote the attractiveness of the profession. We have almost in all countries, except Vorarlberg – where we have a campaign to get young people interested in the police – very many applicants. We can choose the best. We can select those who also feel called to this profession and do not view it as a job. This is very important because it is also a great guarantee for us in the fulfilment of the rule of law. The rule of law, our highest asset, is for me and at the end of the day for all our 34 000 employees at the central fishing point. Today, our special units are on the highest standard, which is possible in terms of equipment, training, especially, as well as support. Of course, there are always fields where we need to improve: on the issue of health care; on the question of equipment the orders have already been received, but it has not yet been delivered everything – whether they are the stitch guard vests, the new helmets or the shot-proof West. It has also happened a lot of what is necessary for the special units in this year. I am thinking of the armored vehicles, the questions of cobra and our special services. The BK has become known internationally in a very special way, just what the training is going on. It is a special sign when our highest official is invited to America to participate in a leadership training course because they really choose people around the world to accompany the best of the best. I think that's once again a proof that we can be very proud of our police. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As for terrorism, this is a major issue. The colleagues in Europe ask me: Why is there no attack on you? – We can’t guarantee it, we don’t know when and where, but with great probability that a This is the case. We're doing everything we can to prevent him. The hidden investigations, the educational work carried out by our BAT are unique and a very special work with regard to the results. Therefore, I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen who perform this work every day in the BVT – 365 days, 24 hours – on a very big compliment: They are always in situations where they have to prove nerve strength and are in a very special position at the end of the day. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] But it is about that we can not only provide our people with the best equipment and the best training on the question of supporting our teams, but also provide them with great confidence. Therefore, all the questions you have asked both in committee and here will be answered carefully, just as we answer all of the Members' requests in full knowledge and conscience. Since they are so detailed and intense, several hours are necessary. Last year it was more than 40 full-time equivalents that we made available for it because we take these questions seriously and their processing. I am concerned about the fact that there are no interpretations and no rumblings when it is necessary to present these figures to the public. In the case of intoxication or addiction-related crime: Why did it rise? – Because with enormous investigation pressure and above all with a legal adjustment, we have improved the possibility of becoming the perpetrator. They know that police work has borne its fruit in recent months. Convince yourself at the U6 or at the Praterstern! But it is important and necessary not to let go of it, but to keep the eye of the law there, because every woman in Austria should feel safe at any time and in any place and can appear in the public without having a bad feeling. That is our goal, our common goal. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Border protection is crucial to our security policy – border protection not only here in Austria, which we maintain under Article 29 of the Schengen Regulation vis-à-vis Slovenia and Hungary. This shows that we can provide the forehead with tow crime. While more than 1,000 criminal cases were committed in 2015, today – still too much – we have reached a number of over 100, 115. This is also the result of the work of our people at the border and the compensatory measures behind it. Because we do not directly control the Brenner, we control the Brenner so intensively in Tyrol in order to compensate for it, and so our partners in Italy know that they cannot send their registered refugees undiscovered to the north, but they must comply with the European standard and ultimately return them to the hotspots and carry out the procedures there. It is very important for us that our partners know that we don't let anyone through. We control as much as possible according to the strictest conditions. However, we are not only in Austria, we are also helping with our police in Hungary, on the Hungarian-Serbian border, we are at the Macedonian-Greek border, and we will go to Bulgaria and Serbia in January, because it must be our common interest to keep the Western Balkans route closed. Our common concern is to convince the European Union that external border protection is essential. We must stick to the registration of refugees outside Europe and achieve a return rate that makes it unattractive that refugees should trust in tractors, through which the strongest and not the most in need. A clear word on asylum policy: for those who need it, yes, but for economic refugees a clear no. We can't record them. It therefore works in the European Union at least after the first time that a clear common approach to external border protection and registration is again displayed. It must be Dublin, a common asylum policy must also work in Europe. If Europe gives up, it has also given up security policy as a whole. We will support this with all our possibilities, but to date national measures are also necessary and these national measures must also be taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last thing: We were successful in the repatriations. Today there was an increase of exactly 28 percent. An agreement alone is of no use or is not the determining factor. Even if we have an agreement, the state in question still says that someone does not hear him, even if he says he is from the state XY – I deliberately call no specific state. We have employed a total of 80 interpreters who find out that he belongs to this state and speaks the dialect spoken there. These are the challenges and the difficulties we have. We're successful with Frontex. We are the leaders in the European Union today, which is what the provisions are about. I was only in Warsaw yesterday to discuss this with the director there for future times. This is part of the implementation of the policy for us: Asylum yes, economic refugee no and provision. This is the criterion of our common asylum policy for us at the end of the day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the intensive discussion. It is of great importance to the Security chapter – and there are enough challenges in the future, in particular as regards cybercrime and development across the European context – and this is the big common for which I thank all the parliamentarians in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20973	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e20994	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! UG 11 – Internals: Mr Minister, I can thank you for the always very serious and detailed answers to the written questions – a warm thank you for that! The internal security budget will be increased by approximately €440 million in 2017. This is urgently necessary when it comes to where it was going. A total of €3.47 billion is budgeted for 2017. It looks like a lot. If you look closely at it, you will be left with €2.26 billion for security. If we look even more closely, ladies and gentlemen, then the Minister can already cover the budget this year because of the increased security situation and the flow of refugees by €630 million. Very important and necessary, ladies and gentlemen, is safety, but also safety for the police in terms of equipment. This year, Hie is planned as a so-called security offensive of €200 million, because the police often need the best equipment for their very dangerous operations, and they must not be saved. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, like Otto Pendlein, I would like to thank the police. Mr Minister, you say that the planning posts are a priority in the budget, especially with the police. Minister, the post commanders outside tell me that, although some of the posts are present, – you yourself have addressed and carried out it – it is of course a problem when many police officers are needed for other missions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are already going a right way. The people in Austria have a right to safety, and that is what should remain the case. To do this, we need sufficient safety forces with the best equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21040	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21061	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can't say it often enough: More resources will be available for security next year than ever before. This allows the police to be personally increased and modernized. Of course, additional expenditure is also needed in the area of basic supply of refugees and in the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. The police officers, as well as all other staff members of the Interior Offices, have developed the Interior Ministry into a real safety care provider. With the necessary budget resources, it can continue to do so in the future. Austria is a world leader in security, quality of life, prosperity and social peace. Keeping this top priority is central in view of the challenges both within and outside the EU. In addition to combating crime, it is especially the issues of migration and asylum, which are a very serious challenge. The financial burden in this area is therefore also necessary. Despite high quality of life in our country – and this shows surveys, but above all discussions in our own environment with the people at home – a certain degree of uncertainty is increasing in the population. That's exactly where it's supposed to be. With more local police officers, with more information and more information, we must take people's fears and concerns seriously and have an open ear to people's concerns and fears. Our police do this seven days a week and 24 hours a day. Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, together we must ensure that the rule of law, stability and public order are preserved. This is a common mission, and I believe that we can also demand three points from people who are looking for protection, refuge and homeland in Austria, namely the willingness to learn the German language first, to provide themselves through work itself and thirdly our order of living to recognize our values. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for clear rules, rules and laws such as the integration law introduced by Federal Minister Sebastian. However, it also needs adaptations, for example in asylum and foreign law, as demanded and introduced by Federal Minister Sobotka. In both areas, it is still Talks with the coalition partner need to be made so that an agreement can be reached. We must not close our eyes to the problems. People rightly expect solutions from us instead of warnings and announcements. We must work out and implement these solutions together. With all due respect for a long and detailed discussion, there is also the time for a decision, and in both areas the point for a decision is reached. Let's put that in the future too!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21118	Mr Schmid has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21140	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The Austrian population has a right to safety. However, it has recently been gradually reduced and partly negligently. Uncontrolled immigration of foreigners, not only from refugees of war, but not from small numbers of criminals in addition to economic refugees, is a major factor in increasing uncertainty. This, coupled with the irresponsible closure of countless police stations and the lack of post-planting of planning sites in the past, results in a fatal mixture. This situation, which is already unsatisfying, is further aggravated by the fact that African foreigners are being further tolerated here in Austria, as they simply do not take their home countries back. I mean, it's a vicious circle. All these circumstances, as well as the non-security of the EU's external borders, require a considerable financial additional burden, which does not reduce the burden of rethinking and massive pressure on the Member States' home countries. Now, depleted security structures need to be rebuilt and increased more expensively. Let us learn from the mistakes of the past! In view of our high budget deficit, public funds should be handled with appropriate caution. However, safety is a command of excellence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21170	Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21191	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The internal security budget has increased by more than 14 percent, and that is also good. We face new challenges and, of course, officials must be adequately trained and equipped. On the other hand, Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, but the subjective insecurity of the Austrian population is worrying me. How's that going? How can such a thing be? – There is not only one answer, there are several answers, but one of them is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that politicians must not hate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's where we can upgrade our security forces, as we want: If the population doesn't feel safe, what do we do for it? We must pay great attention to our language. It is particularly worrying for me that Whether or not an opposition party speaks of civil war-like states. What are the insecure people supposed to think? And how are they to regain security in our state? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It is our common task to take this subjective insecurity seriously and to pay attention to our language. Mr. Minister! I am also very much in favour of trying to win people who are multilingual for the police, especially Austrians who have a migration biography. We'll need them. There was a campaign in Vienna – which could also have been better, but we have won additional multilingual officials. I hope we will try again, it will take place once again, because we will still need it very much for the security of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21243	Mr Mag. Avenauer is the last speaker for the time being. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21264	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We truly live in interesting times, and the framework conditions – mentioned several times – are really not easy. Nevertheless, Austria still ranks among the safest countries. This shows the ad statistics, the 2015 security report – reduced ad numbers and the highest level of awareness. The general environment has become more uncertain, more uncertain in the sense that it is constantly subject to changes. Mr Yılmaz, I am quite right to say that we must pay attention to our language, because immoderate exaggerations on the one hand or harmonies on the other hand certainly do not help to give the population security. It is important to have an eyeset and to make realistic assumptions about developments. On the one hand, investment in research and education as a basis for the future of our children and young people, on the other hand, investment in integration as a basis for successful co-existence and investment in the field of security, is set out in this budget. In the field of interiors, a total of €3.47 billion is available in 2017, which is €440.5 million more than in 2016. In the context of the 2015 to 2018 security offensive, € 288 million will be invested in equipment and protective equipment, special deployment technology, IT technology, air and motor vehicles, infrastructure, communication, prevention and specialists in order to achieve the impact objectives: Maintaining public peace, order and security, ensuring the sustainable fight against crime – and this is done through police presence. In order to achieve this, the 2017 planning positions will rise to 34 982 jobs, which will be around 3,000 more than in 2014, and there will be a further growth of 2,000 jobs by 2020. These are 872 posts alone for 2016, of which 646 are for executive service. Not only is police presence important, but above all cooperation with the population within the framework of the Joint Action is also safe. As we arrived at the end of a session day, I would like to thank the police and all the security forces from the Justice Department to the criminal service. Together we ensure a safe Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21303	There are no more words available to me on the sub-division of internal affairs. This will also be done with this subject area. I'll interrupt the meeting by Wednesday, 23. November 2016, 9 a.m. Negotiations will take place with the deliberations of subheadings 20: Work, 21: Social and Consumer Protection and 22: Pension Insurance continued. The sitting was suspended. [[The meeting was held on Tuesday, 22. November 2016, at 7.59 p.m. and on Wednesday, 23. In November 2016, at 9.05 a.m.]] [[19:59:38]] [[09:05:23]] Continued the meeting: Wednesday, 23. November 2016, 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21356	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I take the interrupted 154. Meeting of the National Council again and wish you all a nice good morning. For today's session, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Angela Lueger, Mag. Gisela Wurm, Himmelbauer, Dr. Nachbaur, Barbara Rosenkranz and Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. We continue with the budget consultation. I announce that today's meeting of ORF 2 to 1 p.m. will be broadcast live; ORF III will be transferred live and full-length, sending the part of the meeting which goes beyond 7.45 p.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21407	For today’s session day, a day-block speaking time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been decided, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122, FPÖ 113, Green 95 and NEOS and STRONACH each 50 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club on today's day of sitting each 25 minutes; in addition, their speaking time was limited to 5 minutes per debate. The division of today's discussions is known to you all. [[09:06:51]] UG 20: Work UG 21: Social and consumer protection UG 22: Pension insurance
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21455	First of all, we come to the discussion of subheadings 20 to 22 on this subject. First of all, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21480	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with a praise today, with a praise for our Minister of Finance. That's going to be You may be surprised, but he actually said something very, very important in the course of his budget speech, and I can only sign it completely; this is a very true sentence in the field of labour market – I quote –: The labour market must, however, be of concern to us. “Every year we pump more resources in this area, and yet we have the highest unemployment” since the 1950s. – More money for worse results! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] Well, he's right! The Minister of Finance is perfectly right. If I translate this into school notes, then it would be a smooth not enough, a smooth squeezing that will be issued for the budget work of recent years under the decisive responsibility of the Socialist Party, whose representative is behind me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] – Yes, yes, I know; the Socialist Party, to your memory, that is the party that some time ago brought before itself the principle of full employment. [[Abg. Heinzl: What about...? Explain this once!]] In the meantime, the principle of full employment has been given away, which has been sidelined and replaced by the principle of immigration and multiculturalism. This is the new social democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anyway, that's nothing you could be proud of. This is not a special proof of performance, ladies and gentlemen. If we are now talking about labour market policy and the problems of labour market policy and the challenges of labour market policy, I can't help but – ladies and gentlemen, you will forgive me – then I have to take a current link to express myself on this; simply because it's so absurd, because it's so bizarre and because it's somehow symptomatic for the systemic failure and for the interaction of all those forces in this country that it's about being suffocated as before. There are two types of labour market problems: There are the real ones – on which I come to speak as well – and there are the imaginary problems. With regard to the problems of the labour market, a certain Mr Van der Bellen, as an Allerster, is in my mind; You know this gentleman. [[Abg. Schwentner:... election campaign!]] This Mr. Van der Bellen wants to become President of the Republic, and to this he moves through the country, from television station to television station, from newspaper to newspaper, and together with his financier Haselsteiner paints a terrible ghost on the wall – the ghost of unemployment. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The Federal President also costs money!]] That's what everyone should be afraid of now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] That's what Mr. Van der Bellen does! That's what he does: Dear Austrians, fear very terrible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] If I, Alexander Van der Bellen, do not become President, then unemployment will rise! – He tries to explain this to us everywhere, and so he tries to frighten the people in this country. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Call to the Greens:... by Kickl!]] Tourism will go down the stream! – It is interesting to hear this from a representative of a party who is against every ski lift, against every snow-making facility, against every access, so in reality a barrier to Austrian tourism and thus a producer of unemployment! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Gerhard Schmid]] Anyway, he's going through the country as an apprehension. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger, Mr Brosz and Mr Walser.]] There is, of course, no proof of this claim. There is, of course, no proof or facts to this claim, but that is not what Mr Van der Bellen needs, because he wrote in his book for election, because we do not need facts, if it is necessary, if it serves his purpose, then it will be lied, and we can gladly miss out on facts. [[Abg. Walser:... Budget!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Go, don't be so wretched!]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's how it looks, that's how it goes in Austria, and the media are playing with it! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Shame!]] In contrast to these freely invented claims of the Lord Van der Bellen, however, there are also real problems in the labour market that we have absolute certainty about; we have figures and facts that we can support in every debate and that you cannot discuss away. These are the real problems in the labour market, which I hear from Mr Van den Broek. Interestingly, Van der Bellen is not at all. As an example – Mr Oellinger, because you are already in or tend to take a breath again – the following fact: [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] Unemployment in Austria has been increasing steadily since 2011. If you take a closer look at unemployment figures, the following picture shows – the figures are from June 2016 –: [[Abg. Oils:... just blur!]] Of all the unemployed in Austria, 28.2 percent are foreigners. If I add to the migration background, then the statistics cast a total of 41.2 percent; and if I look at how many of the participants are foreigners, then I come to a share of 37 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Walser:... disintegrated! This is the boss of the labour market service, who knows himself in contrast to you!]] Well, you will not disturb this, but these are the facts, Mr Oellinger, which are the sad facts. Something else is also a fact, and for that we look at Vienna, because Vienna is as always the hotspot of these negative developments. Look at Vienna and listen to the facts! Of all the unemployed in Vienna, Mr. Öllinger, almost 39 percent are foreigners, and if you count on the migration background, then 58 percent of foreigners are unemployed in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mückstein]] And in the field of training, the proportion of foreigners among the trainees is 55 percent. [[Abg. Oillinger:... read statistics!]] These are the facts, these are the sad facts, Mr Ollinger! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at this, you will of course also see where a growing proportion of the resources for labour market policy goes. The €350 million in addition to activating labour market policies, the additional staff – 400 people – that the AMS needs, of course, all these things come to a large part of the processing of this problem area – well, of course, Mr. Ollinger, that's exactly what this is all about! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser]] These are qualification measures, in not so few areas at all, first of all alphabetization measures, for those people we have just heard about, that they come to the country as skilled workers and highly qualified workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] – These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen, these are the sad facts in this country! Now it will be exciting, because now we ask ourselves the question of responsibility for this development, and then we land at SPÖ, then we land at the ÖVP, then we land with the Greens. That is to say, we land with all those who support Mr Van der Bellen that everything remains the way it is; and this Mr Van der Bellen turns himself and says he is worried about unemployment. – So this is not credible, and I tell you quite honestly: If it wasn't that sad, it'd be almost laughing. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Mr Walser.]] One cannot choose this Lord, one can only wonder about this Lord. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am not saying that you are not doing anything, I am not saying that; but there the Minister of Finance has shaped a further interesting concept, namely that of the "time cycle". [[Green call for tender]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] That's the problem: Every year we meet again here, and every year unemployment is one of the biggest problems in this country and, logically, the following is the subject of budget creation. Crocodile tears, every unemployed person is too much! – the same every year. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You're denouncing the unemployed!]] Every year, there are package of measures that are being launched, and we are told here that these package of measures will now tear the row around and solve these problems. And a year later, we are standing back with the result that unemployment has continued to rise, that it has reached new record heights – and then this game starts from the beginning again, after the same pattern. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] That's this endless loop we're in. Why is that so? – You have a big problem in combating unemployment because you only see the problem from one side; a problem that has two sides, you only look at from one side. You remind me of someone whose basement is under water all the time. You put a pump in one room, one pump in the other room, then you pick up a few bells and start bubbling – very praiseworthy – to bring the water out of this basement, but you completely forget that is to stop the water collapse. This is the problem, because you are blind, and there you are not ready to take appropriate measures. [[Abg. Oils: The water...!]] There are a variety of problems that are all homemade, and we have already discussed many of these things in the general debate: Bureaucracy, tax release, tax burden et cetera et cetera and in the field of the labour market in particular the irregular access to our labour market, which logically creates a displacement competition which is at the expense of the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You do not want to understand that we do not have as many jobs in this country as you bring in workers or possible workers. As long as you continue this course, you will not be able to stop what I have called water break-in, there you can put in the back pumps as much as you want! [[Abg. Walser: Human-deviled language that you have there!]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, think seriously, even with the fight against unemployment, then you must be prepared to throw your rides overboard and think on! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] This has been shown in the case of fences at the border: First it said: Don't go!; now we have her. This is reflected in the debate on the differentiation between immigrants and Austrians in minimum security: First of all, you said it's not possible, and now it's being discussed. This is reflected in the debate on family aid and exports: First it's said it's not possible, now you realize that it's not possible any more. And I guarantee you: The next step will be a sectoral restriction on access to the Austrian labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21815	The next speaker was Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21839	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Sozialminister! Thank you very much, Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I actually came up with the expectation today in the early days, we are talking about the budget, we are starting with the Social Chapter, but I might have thought that the debate would have been used to put the Federal President's election into play or to bring out the FPÖ's hostile image – all that has to do with foreigners. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Abg. Mölzer:... the figures, Mr. Cot!]] The fact is – I hope we agree – that, when it comes to measures in the field of higher education, we are talking about all those seeking employment in Austria, regardless of what nationality they are when they legally reside in that country. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] To Budget 2017: Yes, in the area of subheadings 20 and 21 we take in more money for training, for qualification, for activation measures on the labour market. Target is, I think, the same for everyone in this house: We want to create more employment. Mr Kickl, in the beginning, praised the Minister for Finance – in terms of expenditure as he formulated it –: That is precisely the image of a Minister of Finance that he focuses more on expenditure, including in public perception and discussion, and it is also quite clear that he is holding back the income of people in respect of more revenue coming from employment, taxes, social security contributions. I think that this money, which we are taking in addition, is a good investment for workers, for the economic location and ultimately for our system. We really invest much more in activation measures: with the training requirement up to 18 years, with the training guarantee up to 25 years, up to other measures. I assume that this will be the case, because there has already been preparatory work for nothing. This extends to very concrete, individual measures in the establishments. We also want to make concrete demands on the operation so that people can also qualify higher in the operation. I believe that the goal is always the same: to achieve more employment and to combat unemployment. I would like the Freedom Party to make itself here once and say: Yes, there have also been measures that enabled us to reduce unemployment in 2016! [[Call at the FPÖ:Where?]] This was done in one of the largest problem groups, namely in the construction industry. It would be nice if you could make that known here, too, and say why this was successful. Mr Belakovich-Jenewein said this very well at the Committee on Budgets by saying that this was an exciting committee that we have there, namely the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, and there was also a lot of progress together. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We will not reach agreement on all points, not a question, but it has, as she said, also gone a lot further. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] This statement was not public, Mrs. Colleague! The main issue now is to put in place further measures for 2017. We will be in the next committee on 7 November. It is also important that Parliament should be given the opportunity to take part in the debate on this subject. This budget is a good budget. Why? – Because we are taking on more money in those areas where it is important to use everything in accordance with the law to increase employment. I am quite optimistic that if the economy continues to rise accordingly, we could be able to show a new record employment in this country in the Second Republic in 2017. That would, I believe, be in all our interest. I should like to thank Mr Sozialminister for implementing the results agreed at the February pension summit. Almost everything is done or under review. I should also like to congratulate the Minister for Finance and also the Minister for Social Affairs on this budget, because this social budget is a guarantee for social security in our country. That must be known to all of us. All those who constantly practice criticism and spread pessimistic mood in our country are supposed to take a look over the border and then learn from it when criticizing. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why don't you say anything about the government?]] I would like to thank you for the attention and hope that today's sensitive chapter of social affairs will have an objective discussion in which we can address many others. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21932	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e21953	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear spectators! I now come to a very different subject, but also to the budget chapter on social affairs, namely: I have recently been asked in a very interesting interview with an expert how I imagine my evening of life, how I imagine it will be in 2050 – well aware: In 2050 I will be 82 years old – and I have answered the following: I don't want to be lonely, I don't want to be alone and I don't want to spend my time somewhere without friends. I want to be well maintained, well cared for, and I want it to be half good in the ambience where I live. I would also not expect my children or ask them to care for me, care for me, or spend all the time with me. What does this have to do with this budget? – Incidentally, I think that most of you probably have the same ideas as I do, or similar ideas as I do, as you will spend the time you will experience after 70, at 80 years and possibly beyond, which is quite possible in view of the figures or the fact that people in Austria are getting older and older, as we heard yesterday. But what does this have to do with this budget? – This has a lot to do with this budget, because it is precisely the care sector, the way we deal with people of old age, how people of old age are cared for, that is, a large budget item, in your place, Mr. Social Minister Stöger! Dealing with older people in Austria is one of the biggest challenges in an increasingly older society. We know that more and more people are getting older – fortunately, that is gratifying – but the question is: How do we deal with these people? How do we make it happen to people in Europe? Old man's fine? How do we deal with new phenomena, such as dementia? The number of dementia diseases increases, there are more and more people affected by it. We are not yet prepared for it, we do not know exactly how to deal with it. These are the challenges that we face, and this is an area that we need to address with a great deal of attention and for which we should plan for the long term. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wenninger.]] Unfortunately, I do not see this long-term planning and the long-term vision that are necessary in the budget. At this point I would like to highlight two things that are related to this. First of all, the replacement care. The replacement care is a very important instrument or possibility that people – mostly women – can care for their families at home. In most cases it is either daughters or spouses who care for their husbands, their fathers, their parents, their mothers. They sometimes need a break, not only because they work themselves and are often completely K. o., but also because they may have to go on a short vacation or get sick themselves. Requests from me have shown that most people who use replacement care are sick themselves. Unfortunately, this replacement care, Mr Minister, has been budgeted with a lower amount of €800 000 less than before; and I cannot quite understand that, especially since we agreed in the last discussions on the need to expand the area of caregivers, namely the opportunities that can be used there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a process I don't understand, an action that I completely miss out on. The second example I want to highlight here is the 24-hour care. I have only recently received the figures on this subject from a corresponding request. According to these 78 000 people, mainly women from Slovakia, Bulgaria and other neighbouring countries, are caring for people at home. For this 24-hour care, € 30 million more will be budgeted for next year, namely € 110 million. At first glance, this may look quite good: People are cared for at home, you can stay in your own four walls for as long as possible, but if you look more closely, then you realize – at least I have this impression – that this is also an area in which not really is planned with a wide view. On the one hand, the question is: Who checks the quality of caregivers or caretakers in this area? – I just promised: It's not about care, it's about care. These are actually people who are allowed to help primarily in the household to walk with the sick who are allowed to care for the people who are alone at home. But you must not care for them, and that is a very important difference to care! On the other hand, the question is: How do we accompany people who need more care? What are we making available? What forms of housing can we offer in the future? What forms of mobile care are there being developed? I do not think that the money will be enough – and there is also a lack of wide view – if we have the goal of being all at home in the future and taking advantage of a 24-hour care. This cannot be a suitable solution. Everyone can imagine that this is not going to happen. I therefore believe that we need to discuss much more intensively and much more about this area, the challenges that come to us, and the opportunities there are to be well cared for in old age – as I mentioned at the outset when I described how I pictured it. I know the same homes, I know old-age WGs, where you can take your own belongings in which you have your own room, a shared kitchen and a large living room where you can spend time together. This is not the most expensive solution, but it is a good solution because one is not alone, is not lonely and well cared for. I am missing this far-reaching view of your actions, Mr Social Minister, and I would like to see the future budgets reflect more of the proposals I have now mentioned. Let's keep thinking! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22035	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22056	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now the fourth speaker in this debate, and it has not yet been referred to as a single number. What are we talking about in the budget chapters of work, social security and pension insurance? – We are talking about around €22 billion being made available for these chapters. That's almost 30 percent of the total budget, and about half of these €22 billion goes to pension insurance. I would now like to make a few comments on the individual chapters, because, as I believe, it is important for the citizens of this country, who, with their taxes and taxes, allow us to be very active in the social field too, to know what it is all about. The situation on the Austrian labour market remains tense. Although we have experienced an increase in employment in Austria, we are also faced with rising unemployment rates, which has been affecting us for many months. There is now a slight relaxation in this area in the western Länder, and we need to analyse it carefully in order to achieve such a situation in the rest of Austria. Overall, the fight against unemployment is about training and qualification. Although we take a lot of money into our hands, it is also important that these funds be used efficiently and that they are linked to sustainability, there is, I think, still air up if we want to increase efficiency. In my view, we also need to do so so so that we can communicate to taxpayers as well: Yeah, we're putting your money in the right place, too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are currently around 41 000 open jobs in Austria, 300 chefs are being sought in Salzburg alone. In this area, the list of occupations will now be extended. But we also need to deal with the point of view so that a job can be taught at all. Furthermore, we need to develop a clear difference between income from work and social benefit – and this is a matter that has been particularly important to us in recent times. The issue of minimum security continues to concern us, we have not closed the door; I say this quite openly here too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] In the case of minimum security, there must be a cover. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And it must be a clear difference between people who earn income and people dependent on a social benefit. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. New builder.]] The Social Chapter, which covers nearly three billion euros, deals almost exclusively with the field of care. At this point I would like to say: Austria is certainly world care champions with the approximately 450 000 care benefits. We spend more than €4.5 billion on the care sector – that is, federal government, countries and municipalities. And if you look around in other countries, what the quality and also the accommodation of caregivers will have to admit that Austria is world champion in this field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is also about bringing sustainability into this system. The duration of the care fund has now been extended until 2021. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and also the negotiators. However, we must also consider how we are going to be doing in the field of care financing after this year. I believe that we should also consider models that guarantee that we can cover the additional costs that will arise in this area in the future, so that our high quality system will continue to exist in the future. As far as pension insurance is concerned, we need to keep an eye on the increases. In statutory pension insurance, there is an increase of €10.4 billion to €13.4 billion by 2021. That is not nothing, that is €3 billion, which accounts for around one third of the original amount, and we must therefore also pay attention to how the funds are used there. We have tied up a small pension package, which has now come to Parliament gratefully, and in this package we have also anchored sustainability factors that the Pension Commission is approaching. There are also some improvements for longer work, and there are also some improvements for women, which is very important to me, which leads to child rearing times. Finally, I would like to make a fundamental requirement of the EIA here, namely the abolition of the cold progression, which also has something to do with social policy. There is a sluggish tax increase year after year, because tax rates are not adjusted to what results from salary increases each year, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is unsocial. The Minister of Finance and our vice chancellor have put forward the proposal to automatically adjust the levels of taxation in this area. This would be an automatic tax relief for taxpayers, and I can only appeal to you for us to implement this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, but also the Minister for Social Affairs for this social budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22153	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22175	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers at the gallery! Our colleague, Mr Wöginger, has started to thank God for talking about numbers. The figures have already been seen as the failure of the Federal Government. Then: If we have to spend 15.9 percent more on emergency aid than we did in the previous year, we see placidly that we have a problem, and that is long-term unemployment. But they're not doing anything. Overall, we need more money for the UG 20, namely the area of work, by 18.5 percent, and the large part of it is without any control function. €5.5 billion goes for passive labour market policies, and this does not contribute to bringing people back to the labour market. It ensures financial provision, but is, as I said, without any control function. This is an outlay of resources that cannot be accounted for in this form. Mr Schwentner said that people are getting older and older – yes, but then we have to devote a little bit of the time we are in the world, but nothing happens in this regard. Mr Wöginger said that a package of pensions had come to Parliament. To do this, I have to say: This pension package brings tears to my eyes because it is only linked to extra expenditure. For example: We increase the compensation allowance for people who have worked for 30 years. – Please, with a life expectancy of 80 years, 30 years of work is simply nothing! I'm sorry if I say so clearly. In addition, halve the contributions for people who work longer. Now we halve the revenue for getting full credits, and child training times become more generous for a group of people who at the time could not expect this to be reckoned with. So we have three additional expenditure factors in this budget, which you present here to Parliament, which, by the way, all three are not budgeted. So in your beautiful computer package called “Budget Ziegel”, Mr. Finanzminister Schelling, the spending drivers are not yet included. Now in a deal – the chancellor calls it “New Deal”, but it is actually a New Bazar – you have agreed to exchange a pension hundred for a gift for the farmers. So there's another issue here! The question has not yet been clarified whether they reach these pensioners – like Jörg Haider once – to the pensioners bar on the passchendchen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] In any case, you don't care that you'll still have an additional burden on the young people. Also not included in this budget are the € 730 million that Bank Austria has to deliver for your cruel pension deal. This money is then taken on the side and it is probably powdered for any senselessness. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] All of this is not shown in the budget as much as the fact that Bank Austria will increase the Maastricht deficit, because of course that which is due to obligations on pension insurance and therefore to the federal government, which must cover the deficit of pension insurance, is much more than the € 730 million you have made available to this bank as a gift, as a special price. Because this budget does not contain any sustainability factors, I now make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] Now I'm still coming to your dirty deal, pension hundreds against a gift for farmers...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22259	Mr President, I would ask you to be moderate in your expression. Deputies Mag. Gerald Loacker So: For this deal – for this old Bazar style: Quarterly gift to the farmers. So if I'm a farmer, I'll get a quarter of social security contributions now – with full credits on the pension account! Why? – This is because the dairy farmers have had a bad year and because the pig farmers have sold fewer pigs to Russia, and so everything has its reason. But you are breaking through the principle of social security. Then: With the same right, a shoe seller could come and say: My customers are buying more and more at Zalando and less and less at me in the business, I have had a few bad years and now I want to receive a quarter of contributions from the Social Insurance Institute of the Industrial Economy! After me, the farmers' representatives will come to the speaker’s desk – remember the valued audience – and say that this is paid out of the reserves of farm insurance. And where do the deposits come from? – Farmer’s pension insurance is subsidized by 80 percent, and these reserves only come from taxpayers because the subsidisation factors have been too high. It is insanity how client policy is being done here. The disproportionately represented farmers' representatives put the money into their own stand bags. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If you spend € 2 billion in support to the farmers and that doesn't come to the small farmers, that's your responsibility. The money comes to the Jacob Auers and the Hermann Schultes of this world, with the small farmers who have to moat a slope somewhere up in the valley, however, it does not matter, and therefore these farmers have problems. [[Calls of the Abg. Auer and Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It's a sad budget crying out to heaven that you're going to present to us. I'm enjoying yourself for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22319	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22398	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22419	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I would like to refer to the Social Budget chapter, heading 21. For this purpose €3.1 billion, and there are two major areas of activity in this chapter that are covered with it. The first task area is of course – we have already heard this today – the sustainability and security of care. The second major chapter includes measures to integrate people with disabilities into the so-called first labour market or the second labour market. For this, a total of €49 million will be spent on the budget of subheading 21. In addition, some € 407 million from the AMS budget are also available. It is assumed that next year about 70,000 people with disabilities will be able to be promoted individually or also in projects to enable them to live their own lives. I think this is a budget that will help many people. In subheading 21, the care sector is, as has already been said, established. On the one hand, it is a question of ensuring quality care in the future, and on the other hand, of supporting the caring families, which Mrs Schwentner has already mentioned today, in her task. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We should perhaps also mention the figures when we talk about the budget. I really want to do this because I am convinced that the numbers can be seen. We estimate €2.5 billion for the care money. 5.3% of the population in Austria receive care benefits. I believe, like Mr Wöginger, that the European record is. Nowhere else do so many people receive support in the form of care money as in Austria. This also allows you to finance or co-finance the care yourself well. There is also the care fund, which has also been addressed, and it is donated at €350 million. This is an objective grant to countries and communities which are also concerned with creating Mrs Schwentner's new forms of care. Of course, in the field of care, you also have to look at how to guarantee care in the future, how people want to be cared for and how forms of housing develop in the future. I am of your opinion, and that is why the care fund is available so that we can make greater use of these areas in particular. The possibility of promoting individual forms of housing is part of it. I think that's very important. This is also written and valorised in the financial compensation until 2021. I think that this too is a very important contribution to the sustainable financing of care. They also addressed the 24-hour care: Yes, it is true that many people want this form of care. Care is normally purchased from extramural services, as far as I am aware. Money will also be invested in this area, there is € 110 million of funding for approximately 22,000 people in Austria. This is an important contribution to respond to the desire of the caring people and also of the family. You can discuss the type of 24-hour care, that's no question. However, it is a great desire for people to take care of this care, and the budget is also a good example of this kind of care. The Minister has made sure that the funds can also be paid further. There is also support for caregivers. In total, it is €11 million, not only in the field of replacement care, but also in the field of care treatment and also in the taking over of health insurance and pension schemes. security contributions. I think that this too is a great contribution to supporting caring families. I give the right to all who say that care is one of the great future chapters. We need to think about it. But I am also sure that Minister Stöger's care policy is in very good hands. We will continue to ensure that caregivers on the one hand and people who need care on the other are supported in the next few years. They should also get care as they want, so needs and needs-oriented.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22483	Next, Mrs. Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22504	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, allow me to take a look into the future: How will the labour market develop by the year 2040? How will we live? Do we have safe jobs? – This is exactly what has been involved in a study published in the “standard” in February. You won't believe it: On the subject of job security, only 28 percent of respondents felt that our jobs were really safe. 72 percent of the respondents assume that our jobs are anything but safe. This is not a polemic statement of the opposition party, which reflects the mood in the population. People feel that the concepts that come from the government do not bring sustainable solutions and improvements for them. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We face huge challenges. The current demographic development alone brings us to the border. Germany is already responding, Germany has a concept. In Germany, one knows that only if the skilled labourer potential is expanded and strengthened will one take the right step for the future. Austria is halting, refusing reforms. Unfortunately, we are God's land in which the least happens. Allow I would also like a comment on the contribution of Mr Loacker: Jobs are necessary, and agriculture has many jobs. This profession has been heavily pressured by the development of milk prices, by the export stop. It is our responsibility and our commitment to see that the peasantry not only has a great past, but also a positive future. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why it is also right and justified to support the peasantry. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Doppler.]] Austria has a very bad path behind it. In 2005 we were the best. I remember a “star” article saying that the Austrians were the better Germans. At the time, we managed to create a good mood, a high level of economic growth, a lot of jobs through a right policy of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Höfinger: Federal Chancellor Schüssel!]] Where are we today, ten years later? Ten years later, with a red and black German government, we are at the point that Germany has the lowest unemployment for 25 years and we in Austria have been the highest since the 1950s. This is anything but a success story. There is no need to wonder when the “time ” says: ‘A country shall register.’ More specifically: A country is reporting on reforms! Mr Minister, I know you will talk to me and explain how great the situation is and how great the Federal Government is ensuring reforms and securing jobs. But I tell you quite honestly: No one believes you anymore, especially the 340 779 people who were unemployed in October, including those who took part in training, there were even 411 951 people. Minister! Explain You once saw the family fathers who had been canceled before Christmas, how good the situation is! In a Styrian company, for example, many jobs were lost while the subsidiary in China created jobs. Explain this to the single-parents, who already do not know how to get over the rounds! Explain it to older workers who still have to work until retirement, but have no prospect of a job! Explain You're leading and leading these people, how well you run this country from the government bank! Explain to us as an opposition party why this government refuses such sustainable reforms! Ladies and gentlemen! One issue that we all need to focus on is youth unemployment. In Europe we have a youth unemployment of over 18 percent, in Austria it is 11.7 percent. Although we are still fifth-best across the EU, 11.7 percent should also give us some thought. If you look more closely – and this has been done by “profile” editor Clemens Neuhold – you can see that in Vienna the young men between 20 and 25 years of age are 31 percent who are neither employed nor in training nor in training. I emphasize: 31 percent in Vienna! This is a huge group of two-thirds of migrants. That is, the fairy tale that integration in this country works has long been overtaken by reality. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Unfortunately, youth unemployment is not just a problem for the southern European countries, where quotas are over 40%, which is a topic throughout Europe. In Finland, for example, every fifth youth has no job in spite of best education. In Finland, the way is to look to bring young people into independence, to support them massively so that they can find their own way. In the Baltic states, innovation and creativity are set. [[Federal Minister Schelling: start-up...!]] Already in school it is seen that young people can develop and develop as quickly as possible and find innovative business branches for themselves. I would like this to be quite honestly also for Austria. I think that's the right way. Minister! In conclusion: The government is written in the main book that it is not only responsible for what it does, but above all for what it does not do. In this sense, I expect you to become active in the next few days.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22581	Ladies and gentlemen! I have once again considered the preliminary Stenographical Protocol to the speech by Mr Kickl. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you a call for order for the statement 'if it serves its purpose, then it will be a lie'. [[Abg. Kickl: Then read this...!]] [[Abg. Haider: This isn't a girl's pension here!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You know the expressions...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We have a Rules of Procedure, honourable Member, and these Rules of Procedure do so. I would ask you to preserve the dignity of this House and to act accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Next, Mr Stöger, Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22661	Madam President. Dear Minister of Finance Hans Jörg Schelling! High house! My dear sisters! The exciting question in a democracy is: How does a country deal with people who don't have that easy in life? – The social budget is an expression of this. How does democracy deal with people who have not always fallen on the butter side of life? How does a society deal with the fear of poverty in old age, of illness, of an accident? How does a society deal with people experiencing phases of unemployment? . This budget clearly shows that the Republic of Austria, that the Federal Government places emphasis on looking at the people who live in Austria, who have concerns and fears that need social protection. The €22 billion we use in the social field is intended to reduce precisely these fears of the people and to enable perspectives to allow people to have freedom, even if they are in a difficult situation. With this budget, we enable people who need care to make their living conditions self-responsible and autonomous. For example, we support this with the care fund. We allow people who have worked for a lifetime and achieved little income that they can also live and autonomously shape at the age of their pension as they want to live. This makes this budget possible by preventing poverty in old age and by establishing a pension system that ensures that women in particular receive a minimum pension when they have worked for 30 years that makes up € 1,000. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Aubauer.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Minister, gross!]] I support what Mr Wöginger said: We must make it clear that there is a difference: that people who work also have a corresponding income. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: What are 1,000 € gross?]] [[Abg. Kickl: 30 years for 1 000 € gross or six months for minimum security!]] I would like to thank the trade unions that have contributed to the fact that we have reasonable minimum wages and that these reasonable minimum wages also lead to the fact that the money you get for work is also a result. [[Abg. Honey: Not always!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are now 5.3 percent of the population – 456,000 people – receiving care money, and thus we are indeed world champions. We take in €2.5 billion to pay out care money or to be able to finance care services. It is also worth mentioning that we have now increased the care fund from €350 million to €417 million in financial compensatory negotiations, which means that it is €164 million beyond the financial compensation period. A reply to Mrs Schwentner's comment: We have ensured that there are also more opportunities for care at home that there is less need for short-term care or for replacement care. Therefore, we have also increased the real figures in this area as a whole. Let us come to labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen. Labour market policy is indeed a difficult field. It is indeed true that we have a strain on the labour market. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We don’t have any “stress”, Mr. Minister! Record unemployment is not a “stress”!]] People depend, people also need income in phases where they do not otherwise obtain income. We said clearly: We want to increase the funds for active labour market policies by € 109 million in 2017. We have said consciously that we want to improve the care relationship with the AMS, and have opened 400 additional planning posts. We are promoting what we need in the economy, in other words, more qualifications, which are required on the Austrian labour market. It is therefore very important to me that we reintroduce the professional scholarship. Mrs Dietrich, you have described this correctly by saying that young people just need help when they are unemployed. The young people are very important to me. We, the Federal Government, have said: Not only do we want a training guarantee, we also want a training requirement. [[Abg. Lugar: That's great! He's being forced!]] We want this for every youth who does not have a job in Austria who is not in education. We will draw up training plans, and we want to implement the training requirement and the training guarantee. We are concerned that we also have additional funds for long-term job-seekers. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: All hot air, Minister!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, with this budget, I thank those who have participated in it, it is possible to reduce the concerns of people, to give people safety and to give them the freedom to make their lives autonomous. This is a very central task that a federal government must carry out. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They're all so happy and just grinning!]] Today I have made a very special experience: I've had the experience that I have to give Mr. Kickl a right once. He said: When it comes to responsibility, there are a few parties that take responsibility. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: The Freemen! That's right!]] He called the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens. - I can only confirm that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22838	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22859	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! Mr Stöger has started his remarks with a question: How does a society deal with people who need help? – An important question! Four weeks before Christmas a happy message: The expansion of hospice and palliative supply has been successful. We should be pleased together here in the National Council, in the parliamentary committee of inquiry “Wald at the end of life” we have made it clear that no one should be left alone at the end of his life. We are now approaching a really important step towards this goal. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP and the SPÖ.]] In the new financial compensation between the Federal Government and the Länder, the expansion of hospice supply is complete Austria is awarded €18 million a year for the first time, and in five years there are €90 million for people who are at the end of their lives and need our help. I would like to thank all those who have contributed and made this possible. It is also most gratifying: The care in Austria has already been financed for the next few years – the Minister has already come to speak on it. Interesting is: With an annual increase in 2021, €417 million will be available in the care fund. What about the money? – Our aim is to increase mobile care, because most people want to be cared for at home. For pensions: Dear colleagues, please don't worry about our pensioners! Pensions are guaranteed for the next decades. More than two million people rely on receiving a pension every month, and this has worked for half a century. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. New builder.]] But there's a problem. What's the problem? – Currently, the actual retirement age is only rising at the snail pace, at least far less than life expectancy increases. This can't happen at some point. That means quite clearly: We need further measures to ensure that people do not retire early and that our children and grandchildren can also receive safe pensions. For our current pensioners, there is one single 100 € for the 0.8 percent increase in pension next year. We would have wanted a higher percentage increase, now the hundred are coming. Mr Loacker, if I have understood you correctly, you have about said that he will spend it pointlessly, bubbling it pointlessly. - I'm shocked. Our pensioners are so disrespectful to say, that really can't be! [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] The elderly know what they spend their money for. [[Abg. Loacker:... distribute populist gifts! Pure client policy! pathetic clientele policy! Common policy!]] The older people themselves know what they are spending their money for. To the young people: Some will touch the hundreds of their grandchildren, and that is the generation of hundreds. We're happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22917	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e22938	Madam President. Dear gentlemen of the Federal Government! It is actually embarrassing if you have been in this house for a few years and each year have to experience the same unworthy discussion in the run-up to pension adjustments – every year the same unscrupulous approach, this time especially highlighted by colleagues Loacker. [[Abg. Loacker: This is also a regular table populist!]] I can only join my previous speaker: How respectfully these people are being dealt with here, my colleague, who has worked hard for 40 years or more in this country to finance our present, who have spent 40 years in the tax pot, who really deserved their pension, as I mean – these people also deserve a different approach from this House! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Every year, pensioners become the gameball of politics. Every year, depending on whether there are elections or not, you give the pensioners a little more, once a little less. I have already emphasized this. That is why three years ago we tried to introduce a completely different approach here. Unfortunately, our requests have been in the committee for three years, are postponed, are postponed again and again. This is the reason for the fact that there is nothing going on in this country today, because the government groups have no own applications and that the opposition has repeatedly postponed them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The pensioners are supposed to be happy today, it will give them the benefit of 0.8 percent. These are at an average pension, which is now raised to a minimum pension of €1,000, say and write 8 € more about which they can enjoy. These are about two kilos of bread, which they can afford in addition. In addition to this, another impeccable hundred are supposed to blatter the pension once more by €8 per month. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot continue in the future. The pensioners are not alms! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The pensioners deserved their pension, they also paid for it. These are the people – as Mr Fekter said yesterday – who, in fact, have only allowed us the prosperity of today. And here it is necessary that we do not actually take the second best solution for them. They have not, as was claimed in the run-up to this discussion, benefited in any case from the last tax reform. No, no, no, They had to accept two complete packages of abandonment of inflation, where Dr. Khol was still famous for helping pensioners keep the deficit lower in Austria. And now they should be grateful for getting at least 0.8 percent?- Oh, my God! - It can't be. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For months now, the president of the Austrian Seniors' Federation Korosec has demanded 1.3 percent, because the shopping cart of pensioners is different from that of other persons. A pensioner does not buy a new car or a new TV every year. [[Abg. Loacker: An employee neither!]] In the shopping cart of daily life and daily needs, the rates of inflation, my dear ladies and gentlemen, have increased exorbitantly. There are price increases of up to 30 percent for rents. There are higher prices in the case of operating costs, energy and food, which are not at all able to compensate for inflation. That is why it is so important not to seek the second best solution, but the best. And the best solution would have been 1.3 percent and a minimum board of 1,200 €. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We called for this two years ago, our social spokesperson Kickl, and we are no longer far away. As far as other areas are concerned, Mr Kickl has already mentioned today that we are increasingly approaching the demands of freedom. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23034	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23115	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23149	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We spend €22 billion on the social budget, and we have also given ourselves new rules in this House as to how budget creation should take place. One thing is that we are setting out the framework in which the ministries can move, but it is important for us Members, as I mean, to be also: How do we measure success? – That is why we have introduced in the budget process the instrument of impact objectives and impact orientation. If you make critical revisions to this budget week happen, then you insist that this issue of the objectives of impact, I think, is not yet equally well anchored in all ministries. In this sense, however, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs can in any case be praised because it is noted that it is really trying to take seriously the instrument of orientation for impact, the objectives of impact, set itself objectives that make the success achieved with the funds used, also measurable for our Members. That's why, I think, the ministry deserved a great deal of thanks. Of course, one can always discuss such objectives, whether all objectives are formulated in the same way as our Members imagine them. If we say that we want to measure the ratio of compensatory allowances to the total number of compensation recipients, then this is certainly an interesting measure, we note that people who apply compensation in Austria are, of course, largely female. However, it would also be interesting to raise the proportion of the total number of women receiving a pension: How high is the proportion of allowances for women? In my view, that would certainly be better to measure than to ask the opposite question of how many men obtain compensation allowance. If you look at the figures, you can see that in recent years we have been quite successful, especially as regards the topic of self-pension for women. After all, 70 percent of the 60-year-old women in Austria now have their own pension. However, as we can see from the discussion we have just held, these own pensions, which are achieved, are partly appallingly low. We are already spending € 1 billion in this country to give compensation to people who, because of their employment biographies, have only very low pensions. This step we are now taking, which is not yet included in the figures, namely increasing this compensation allowance to € 1,000, is correct and important because it concerns many women who, for example, had care obligations for children, for dependants, who now receive an increase and thus, for the first time, at least €949 net per month. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Yes! Too little, too late, gross!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You didn't do anything with the luxury pensions!]] This is little, Mr Loacker, to be able to enjoy life in this country, but at least more than it has been, and a real sign for women in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why it is so important not only to speak but also to act, and we are putting it into practice. This is an important sign, even for men who had the bad luck to be sick and not to have a regular working biography due to illness. They too will benefit from these measures, that at least they can lead their lives a little more self-determined, because, as I said, you are perfectly right, 949 € are not much in this country. But we have thus achieved a significant increase for those people who have worked hard but who have had the wrong not to have longer working biographies. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: How high is the minimum security?]] After all: If you look at the increase in the pension, you have to say that we are constantly increasing. There have been times in this country where governments have not raised pensions. We increase pensions year after year, after which the pensioners can rely. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true!]] One last word on the topic of cold progression: Of course, we also want to abolish the cold progression, but that's where you have to look. The cold progression is not the same for everyone. The cold progression hits the lower incomes disproportionately strongly. Our demand for the elimination of cold progression is therefore to eliminate this burden on lower incomes, because the high incomes in this country are almost not affected by cold progression at all. That's why: Of course the cold progression will be abolished, but then we will do it right too!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23241	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please. [[Call the ÖVP:Stalinism! Class struggle pure!]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I just heard an intermediate call, but I didn't see who he came from. I shall have the Stenographical Protocol to do so. [[Abg. Lugar: The Rädler was it! He showed up anyway!]] Please, Mrs Mag. Honey.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23284	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine a plant in a too tight flower pot! It is in the shade and is rarely poured. Then the owner puts in a small stick and hopes for a miracle. – I think it’s similar to our labour market. In this budget, I say, we have relatively few economic impulses in it. There is a reform of education, which is still subdivided. Climate protection is definitely not recognised in this budget as an opportunity for the economy and the labour market. And the labour market policy is now supposed to be the miracle stick that makes everything right? – Unfortunately, this is not the case, so it cannot work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unemployment continues to grow, making it imperative to spend on passive labour market policies. These are the insurance benefits acquired, unemployment benefit, emergency aid. In fact, we have relatively little influence on the design of the budget. However, where we can shape, this is the area of active and active labour market policy. There are more resources than in recent years, and I say that is very, very good. I would like to stress that we Greens have always welcomed it if there are means and measures for the fight against youth unemployment in particular, measures for more youth qualification. I would like to stress once again that it is the FPÖ that has always voted against measures in the fight against youth unemployment and against measures for youth qualification for years. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: The SPÖ! The reds, right?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I find it interesting in the debates of the last few days that it is also the ÖVP, lastly Mrs Schittenhelm yesterday, who says in connection with labour market policy: Well, we don't even know where the money goes! – I have to say that I am very surprised because you are in a government party and even I know where the money is going, because there are really detailed reports about it in which you can read it. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: This was even said by the Minister of Finance!]] The problem is less that we do not know where the money is going, but that we have relatively little influence on where it is going. [[New condolences with the greens.]] There is a certain amount of action between the AMS, the Ministry and the countries; I think that we should be able to intervene more politically. I would like to see more room for innovation in the labour market budget. What do I mean by that? – For example: I would like a reduction in working time as a labour market policy project to be tried. We needed pilot projects with companies, with regions, no matter what, which go into the reduction of working time. Shortening of working time can create new jobs, can create age-oriented jobs, can create more family-friendly jobs. All this is what we want. Although I believe that intelligently designed reduction of working time does not burden businesses, I am in favour of supporting labour market policies in this transition, for example by saying that in the first two years, when new people can be recruited due to a reduction, the costs for the new ones will be taken over or partially financed. These would be opportunities I would like to create politically in this budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In short, because Members of the Wöginger have introduced the subject here, to the lack of cooks: The lack of cooks probably didn't come all night because we've known this topic for years. 70 percent of graduates are no longer in this sector after three years. Why? – We know that too: because of working hours. And no, I don't say you can't eat in the evening, on the weekend and on the holiday anymore; there are other occupations where work must be done on the weekend and evening, but there is no massive shortage of labour. The question is: What are the compensation conditions, what do I get for them? – A cook gets – trained – 1 500 € gross, which is not even 1 300 € net. These are conditions that people don't want to work on, and that in a often bad tone in such kitchens. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: How high is the minimum security?]] I don't know who used to work in corporate kitchens, but that can be very, very unpleasant. What does the ÖVP say now? – Since the conditions are such that we do not even find cooks within the EU, the chefs must be placed on the list of failures. That is, we are now starting to look outside the EU for people who are still willing to work on these bad conditions instead of finally changing the conditions. In the short term, we will not be left with anything else, because if we don't have anyone for the winter season, it probably will not be different. However, please start to pack the difficulties at the root and not always operate cosmetics above. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally: I welcome the increases in the labour market policy budget, money for education and qualification is always on the rise – it is good against the turning door effect, which means that people are getting unemployed again and again. It is good because the health costs are reduced, and it is good for the affected families, especially for the children, when people are integrated into the labour market, but: I advocate greater innovation, more courage in the design of labour market policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23408	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23429	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear visitors to the gallery and watchers in front of the screens! High house! In addition, a sentence on Mrs. Schatz: Yes, it is a big problem to find staff, not just cooks, but throughout the tourism area, people who want to work on the weekend. And it will be a great challenge to offer them corresponding things, or at all to make them work in this profession and see the profession as a challenge. I would now like to come to the 2017 budget we have available. Many of us have been very busy in the Committee meetings in recent weeks and have been very concerned about it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We of the ÖVP follow a clear line [[Abg. Peter Worm: Where?]] We want to reduce expenditure and clearly say no to new debts and no to new taxes. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: colleague, you should say something about consumer protection! Consumer protection would be our topic!]] – Mr Wurm, yes, I will. “Words don’t pay any debts” – even if you don’t have to assume any responsibility, I have to add that now unfortunately. I would also like to thank Mr Schelling for having managed with his team to create a budget in a challenging time under difficult conditions and not lose sight of our goals. The field of consumer protection is – if you look at the naked figures in this area – a very small area of the figures. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: A drama!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: At least admit it, Mrs. Colleague!]] But especially consumer protection is a matter for all of us, because we are all consumers. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But this is a contradiction in itself!]] And of course, Mr Wurm, as you emphasize, he has given great attention, and he is always on the move. In this way, we must continue to keep an active eye on the issues that concern people. Consumer information is always a necessity that is highly respected, especially in the field of food labelling. I think that good steps have already been taken, but it is certainly still a lot to do, not a question at all. It is also about information on insurance and financial service providers or about the area – which unfortunately is growing very much – cybercrime, which unfortunately will again and again and probably also intensively concern us in the next future. We must not forget, however, that the citizens themselves are also able to take a picture and decide. Overregulations are not always in our minds, but also in the sense of the citizens, and certainly not in the sense of consumers. There must be rules, but we cannot regulate everything, we must be aware of that. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: I see that differently!]] However, we must also remember our domestic businesses, which give people work and which are the engine for our economy, I would like to expressly point out. I would also like to point out that it is important to keep looking at regionality, seasonality and thus high quality. We are obliged to do this to our consumers. In the future too, there are a number of challenges to be addressed, not just in the budget area. We will continue – as a whole – to find the best conditions for the Austrians in order to allow people a good life, a life in which performance is worthwhile. Finally, I should like to thank the Committee members. I know it's not always easy to find a consensus. I can thank you for the cooperation with the Ministry, where a constructive exchange, a constructive discussion is taking place, only because of the fact that Austria becomes a lot more viable and kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23560	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23581	Madam President. Mr. Minister on the Government Bank! My colleague, honey, I'm really inviting you to come. You once, let's talk for an hour, because it's very important to know that you know what you're talking about, that you're getting close to practice, that you understand this a little bit and not just roaring in some way from the side, although you have no idea at all! – It may be that you are a trained cook, but that’s been relatively long ago, and since then a lot has changed. [[Abg. Honey: I'm a trained cook and...!]] [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Ordinary call!]] [[Further call-ins]] The Minister for Social Affairs spoke of the butter side of life, of the people who did not fall on the butter side of life. In this context, I must mention the so-called cow trade, which has been made there concerning the pension centuries and the SVA exemption for farmers. If you are already talking about the butter side, you also have to assume your responsibility in this respect. Those who fall on the butter side can afford better education – the regular education system fails in this respect – but the others have a major disadvantage on the labour market, because training and schooling are simply too different. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Mr Schellhorn, you fell on the butter side!]] I believe that the Minister of Finance must already bite his tongue so that he doesn't say anything about the pensioner, so that we have to free him in this respect too. I would like to give you an example of what client policy means. Client policy means: Farmers are right to have a very bad season, and farmers are right to have environmental influences with which they have to live. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does “right” mean?]] [[Further calls.]] Farmers rightly have difficulties in exporting, with Russian customers, to whom they are not allowed to export any more. The same problem, for example, also has the tourism sector. Tourism also has problems with the Russian guests, as they no longer come to Austria. Tourism has to deal with climate change just as much. But what about tourism and all the SMEs? – An entrepreneurship bashing was carried out in 2014/2015 and said that the fight against fraud had to be reinforced, because there is simply too much being abandoned there. That may be right, but where does client policy remain? I believe that it is also toxic coupons that you are distributing; toxic coupons, as far as the next generation is concerned, and toxic coupons that you are now pouring out to try to mitigate the effects of the 20 years of missing agricultural policy. That's the problem. They just want to do something about it, which is a bit painful – but that does not fight the disease itself. For these reasons I have to tell you: Please note that 1,600 employees are given a luxury pension, especially for social insurance companies. A Mr. Wala with his 30 000 € falls below and also gets the hundred. Where's something fair? Where's something socially fair? You are right to try to relieve the lower area in this way – I am right in giving you that, but this may be a symptom fight. In fact, however, we also have a major problem in labour market policy, which means that in the lower incomes sector, income from non-work is no longer very different from income from income from work. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You always dispute...!]] That also means that employees cost too much and earn too little. There must be a great discharge, and what German Chancellor Kern said must be true: Performance must be rewarded again! [[Abg. Peter Worm: You say that once and for all!]] That's what he said at his opening speech, but since then I haven't heard it, and that's the problem. [[Abg. Peter Worm: What is your line at the NEOS?]] In this respect, I believe we must make the greatest effort in labour market policy. We must try to qualify people and get them back into the labour market. We need to get them out of this non-activity case. We need to motivate them to take up open positions. In the summer there was the following situation: the highest unemployment and the highest number of open spaces. How does that fit in? [[Abg. Peter Wurm: How does the motivation look?]] We have this problem, and that is why: Performance must pay off again and especially in the lower incomes sector, it must be so that employees are less expensive and deserve more. For these reasons it is particularly important that I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] One thing is certain: The problem with us is that these funds for unemployment benefit, emergency aid and the corresponding pension contributions are not controlled. This means that there is no question of where these billions of expenditure will affect a return to the labour market. However, this should be done in the sense of efficient management and effective funding in this area. We need to know what is happening to this and what successes we can achieve, and I have therefore tabled this motion for a resolution. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23762	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23834	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23855	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words about the labour market budget. Despite high unemployment, we have record employment and higher incomes that contribute to the achievement of our budget targets, so we will re-establish targeted investments in the future. In times of digitization and automation, qualification and training are the way to the future for our labour market and for our economy in Austria. We increase the intensive training of skilled workers, thus enabling young people seeking work from the 18th century onwards. Year of life to get a degree. Over the next three years, we will also offer 6 500 courses in the field of job-related qualification, with practical training and training for the concrete operational requirements that are desired. And the Qualification Support Programme for Workers will be extended by the end of 2018, which will help the AMS to support the costs of continuing training of low-qualified and older workers in order to involve them more fully in operational continuing training activities. Ladies and gentlemen! So you see, the Federal Government has recognized the signs of the time and invested in the future of the Austrian labour market and thus also in the Austrian economic location. I am therefore particularly grateful to our Minister Alois Stöger, who, with an eye-catching and far-sighted view, has put a very balanced and sustainable budget on his feet.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23886	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - He's not in the hall. Then the next speaker was Mr. Dr. Huainigg. - Please. [[Abg. Lugar: He was there anyway, just not in his place!]] [[Prolonged calls.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler is heading towards the Rederpult.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: It's too late, someone else has already been called!]] Mr Steinbichler, I have already called on Mr Huainigg because I have not seen you in the Chamber, but you can speak on this again. [[Abg. Lugar: But he was there!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Who does not come at the right time...!]] Mr Huainigg has now come to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e23971	Madam President. Mr Sozialminister! Mr Finanzminister! High house! One has to say what Austria is doing in the social field – we are really a social state – and also in this budget as far as care is concerned, in terms of combating poverty and also in terms of training and employment. It has also succeeded in setting key key points that the care fund will be continued over the next five years with € 350 million and an increase of 4.6 percent. What makes me particularly happy is that there is a special pot for the care fund, where hospice and palliative medicine with an annual cost of € 18 million is also promoted and expanded. This is a very important step, for which I would also like to thank Minister for Finance Schelling. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The care allowance and also the 24-hour care are continued. It is right what has been said: People want to live on at home when they become old and in need of care. They do not want to come to a home, but live on in their surroundings. As far as disabled people are concerned, support through personal assistance is very important. Now it has not been possible for the countries to provide special funding, but there is the possibility or the possibility of financing the multi-hour daily support. It would be my concern and an important demand that the funds for personal assistance should also be made available by the countries in order to increase their offers accordingly, because the care fund provides for innovative measures to be put in place. Although there is no evidence of its own, no identification of what is being done, I think that personal assistance would be an important step, so it would be important that this multi-hour daily support can be financed from the care fund. Personal assistance guarantees an inclusive life in the midst of society, and that corresponds to human dignity as it is to be enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24011	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24032	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and here in the hall! Mr Stöger, you have already spoken for a few minutes today, but unfortunately God's statements from the content were about as valuable as this budget and as in fact your entire work on the labour market in recent months. In one of the first speeches in this debate, Mr Muchich – he is not here right now – said that I would have said in the Committee that there is good cooperation. – I just want to correct this a little: I did not say this in the Committee, but it was at the poverty conference, and it did not refer to the current state of the Committee, but to the time of your predecessor, Mr Sozialminister Hundstorfer. At that time, there was something like a collaboration, even if it was not always quite easy. Since you are ministers, Minister of State Stöger, you have to say honestly, all of this has become much, much worse. There are hardly any legal decisions. Or let's look at this budget: I have to tell you that your ambitions are crazy. I just call you a number of figures, such as the unemployment rate for the men you want to achieve: There is the state of the situation in 2015 where we had 9.8 percent; the target for 2016 was 9.9 percent, and the target for 2017 is also 9.9 percent – i.e. no reduction, but it should increase slightly. Mr Minister, what you are proposing here is not an objective, that is nothing but a pure administration of unemployment in that country! You know – because so much has already been said about tourism and cooks has been quoted today – I was quite shaken and horrified when I read in the summer, you want to fight unemployment now by offering kebab on the alm, because then we could also accommodate the asylum seekers who are cooks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – On the one hand, it should not have worked out, because not for nothing there are still 500 open jobs for cooks, and on the other hand, Mr Federal Minister: How to Set Exactly Is that what you're gonna do? – Tourists who go with us to the mountain huts do not want to eat kebab there, but Kaiserschmarren, cheese cams or other almadequate food. That's the truth! This is not an approach that you represent here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only thing that was not quite awkward about this sentence was the fact that you are thinking about the unemployed asylum seekers. It also doesn't come entirely from about that you want to get rid of AMS chief Johannes Kopf, as you have already said several times. He said something wrong, he said that if we did not have refugees, the unemployment rate would have been down by a long time. That's exactly the problem and the puddle's core! They are constantly trying to fill our labour market with new people, and this simply does not work because it is already tense. You can now make yourself a hundred times and say how great the employment rate has grown. – Yes, it may be that it has grown, but what you never say about it is how many of these new jobs are precarious employment conditions and how many of the people who are accommodated in these newly created jobs also need minimum security in order to survive at all and get over the rounds. Any statistics in recent months have shown that fewer and fewer people can live from what they deserve. – You, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, must be alarmed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What are you doing? – They indicate an effect goal: They want to continue managing unemployment. They do not bring anything together in the field of labour market. The same in the case of minimum insurance: They do not bring anything together in the field of social affairs. You have failed, Mr Federal Minister, by your attitude, by your way of setting an ultimatum to the coalition partner. It was clear to you that no one will be pressured by you. Even your own comrades from Salzburg want to reduce the minimum security for those entitled to asylum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] [[Abg. Ecker: That's not true!]] – Of course that’s true, read it! Even your own people want that. And what are you doing? – They stand and dream of a world that cannot work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of going here, Federal Minister, and meeting with the coalition partner, you are negotiating that you are negotiating with the countries, with the national leaders, that you are also looking at the problems in the face, because you are also considering where the problems are, why there are bottlenecks, why it is not possible for the countries to do so soon, insist on a point of adjustment: It must be the way I've always said it because I'm me! – This is your problem, and this is also the reason that nothing goes further in your department, neither in the labour market nor in the social field, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Minister, with you this is the same thing: You then always sit down and explain what you're not doing and what you haven't done, and you're not really accessible for any criticisms either. This is probably also a reason for the failure of the minimum security negotiations. Mr Minister, we have a problem in this country: We have a huge low-paid sector. We have heard today that cooks earn less than €1 300 net, and at the same time you refuse to make cuts at the minimum guarantee. - Please, that can't fit! You can't believe that people who go to work should get the same thing as those who don't go to work! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] One more word, because it is still important to me, on the compensation allowance: Yeah, it's true... [[Abg. Steinhauser:... solution?]] – The solution? The solution would be quite simple, Mr Steinhauser, because they have drawn up two federal states. I don't want to call this an ideal solution now, but it can't be that people who've never paid in this system come here and get the minimum security, and thus get almost as much, if not more than people who work here every day, 40 hours a week and longer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the injustice that people do not understand, and that belongs to averted. It's no one to explain who works here as a cook for 40 hours and longer, who doesn't have a weekend that doesn't have holidays! It is not reasonable for these people to finance economic refugees with their taxpayers who are so happy to bring you to the country. That's not fair, and it's up-to-date! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] It should be done, Mr Minister, and it would be your job as a Social Minister to get there and not to get in here somewhere and put on some ideological scams and say: That's how it must be, and that's how I want it! - That's the wrong way. If you do not start to move, I see black – then I see black for the labour market in particular. If our unemployment rate continues to rise this way – and this is to be feared because all experts warn that unemployment will continue to rise in the next few years – then you will not be able to react at all. That is because we already have a problem with unemployment benefits, because that is no longer possible for those in the labour market, and because your so-called new jobs, in which you have so many new workers, are not jobs that bring very large incomes, because they are low-cost sectors, because they are precarious conditions and because there are no taxes and no social incomes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24136	Mrs Ecker spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24168	Madam President. Minister! Mrs Colleagues, it is simply not true that we want to reduce the minimum guarantee in Salzburg. That's not true! – Yes, but we are accustomed to the fact that statements from this party come that do not correspond to the truth. [[Abg. Jarolim: Almost everything she said is wrong!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Colleague, you really don't need that! We just want to rate integration in a new pot! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is not an actual correction, that is a speech contribution! ... Chairmanship!]] That was the goal and not the minimum guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24278	The next item is Mr Hell's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24300	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, I would like to say that it is more necessary than ever to increase public expenditure on job creation, improving and safeguarding the social system and public services. This budget also implements important key points – the Federal Minister has already mentioned this in his contribution. As in the previous year, particularly in the area of pensions, there is a very positive trend. In the past, far-reaching reforms have been implemented to mitigate the long-term increase in expenditure. Compared to the Federal Financial Framework Act, €600 million is budgeted less in subheading 22 and another € 270 million is available for civil servants' and civil servants' pensions. This shows us that the right steps have been taken: The measures to increase the actual retirement age, the positive trend in employment rates, increase contribution payments. There is no reason, therefore, to develop horror scenarios and to continue to be insecure. Even the long-term budget forecast submitted by the Federal Minister for Finance has shown that, despite the ageing population, expenditure increases to a small extent by 2060. In the last few days, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government has decided to make numerous changes, which will also make improvements for pensioners. Improvements exist, among other things, for the single minimum pensioners with a long insurance period. Those who can have 30 real years of contribution will receive at least € 1,000 instead of €883 in future. In particular, women with long part-time periods benefit from this benefit in their careers. Those who stay in the job beyond the statutory retirement age benefit from halving the pension insurance contributions. And the government has decided to disburse once 100 € for our seniors. The package with a total volume of € 179 million is an important contribution to the purchase of the general pension increase of 0.8 percent. to reduce the poverty of pensioners and pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of extending the palliative and hospice offers – Mr Aubauer has already mentioned it –: There is still a lack of €6 million as a commitment from the Minister of Finance. I would ask you to make the necessary provisions until the vote is taken. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24345	Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein spoke on an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We already!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24383	Madam President. Mrs Ecker said in her speech that SPÖ Salzburg does not want to reduce the minimum level of security. I'm actually correcting: SPÖ State Party Head Steidl wants refugees not to receive minimum security at all. – This is in yesterday’s “Salzburger Nachrichten”.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24423	Next is Mrs Mag. ......................................................................................................... - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24445	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say the following about the budget: I am very sorry that the inclusion fund has not been achieved, despite the efforts of the Minister of Social Affairs Stöger. Unfortunately, we have not managed to establish an inclusion fund. Of course, there is a care fund, but there are people with disabilities who also need an inclusion fund. The Ministry of Social Affairs is doing very, very much for people with disabilities, because the aim is to ensure equal lives for people with disabilities. I looked closely at the budget: We speak here of €4 million more, but it is, compared to the figures of three years ago, nevertheless, €7 million less. We focus on the labour market: They know that the unemployment rate and the unemployment rate are rising, including those with disabilities and people with disabilities, there is the title of “favourable disabled people”. In other words, people with disabilities who volunteer and apply for a disability pass receive the title “favorable disabled”, and then these people receive resources at work or in everyday life – saying: generally promotions. With the figures concerning these disadvantaged people, you can measure and work well. If you look at the unemployment rates of the disadvantaged people, you can see that the forecast is that the unemployment rate will be slightly lower in 2018, but in the affected disabled. Women are increasing and higher in numbers and there are more and more unemployed disadvantaged women. The question is: How will you act, how do you want to promote these women? – There is now a planned women’s promotion concept and a study on it. The question is: What is the current state of affairs, how will you go about that? The second area concerns equality: Equality means that people with disabilities are the same in everyday life. If these people experience barriers in everyday life, then a conciliation procedure can be initiated at the respective national offices of the Social Ministry Service. The corresponding figures say that the number of conciliation procedures varies – once it is more, once less – but fact is that barriers not only experience people with disabilities, but also quite simply a mother with a stroller, which, for example, needs a ramp instead of stairs. The consciousness of what is a barrier, and the awareness of who can initiate a conciliation procedure still need to be strengthened, because barriers affect many people, not just people with disabilities. If you look at the measures in the budget more closely how you want to achieve this, and if you look at the figures – there is now also an interim balance that you can see online – a question arises. Mr Finanzminister, I would like to address you directly: They have the responsibility, together with our Minister of Social Affairs, and in the past it was the case that the Ministry of Social Affairs has promoted everything, but since certain legislative changes, which have given the competences of implementing certain measures for people with disabilities to the Federal Government and the respective ministries, much has not happened. The National Action Plan with its actions must be pursued and implemented by the respective ministries, and the problem is that the budget is not transparent. In the course of a parliamentary request I have received many answers from all the ministries, answers to them: What does it look like here? How much money do you invest in implementing the National Action Plan? How much is foreseen in the budget? How much money is reserved for people with disabilities? – The answer from the Ministry of the Interior: No, we didn't plan. Another answer was that it was already somewhere else, another answer was that the Ministry of Social Affairs was doing it. - I can't do that! I can't do that! Mr Finanzminister, it is your responsibility here – with the support of the Social Minister – to work towards an equal life for people with disabilities and to develop a transparent budget. In Sweden, for example, there is a budget with its own report, which makes it quite clear how much money goes for women with disabilities, how much money goes for people with disabilities, and I expect you to do so on behalf of all disabled citizens. It is also the responsibility of all parliamentarians here in the house to control this. We are the control instrument to see where the money flows, including for people with disabilities. The responsibility lies with us, we are elected Members. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24506	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24529	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr Sozialminister! There is no doubt that we are dealing with a balanced social budget, and in times when we are committed to a budgetary course that does not provide for new debt, and in many areas where it is necessary, as in the field of security, research, innovation and rural areas, to take offensive action, the social budget is really good. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] We are in general leading social expenditure in Austria and have a very tight social security network. The present social budget is directly available where people need support, in the area of labour market, pensions, in the field of care, but also for people with disabilities, sufficient resources are available to implement important measures. Social expenditure is increasing, which is the budget. Every second euro of taxation is already going into the social system, and therefore it is our duty to try to ensure that this social system is correct, fair and above all sustainable. This applies – and this has already been mentioned in previous speakers – especially in the field of minimum security of demand. It is not to be seen that someone who works on a daily basis – today the cooks have already been strained several times – in the end has less than anyone who has not yet paid anything into the system. There is a need for measures as they have already been taken in Upper Austria and Lower Austria and as they have been remembered in Salzburg, also by SPÖ, and by Niessl in Burgenland. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Sowieso!]] I think that's where you have to sit. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] In the area of pensions, we also need to continue on the path of bringing the actual retirement age closer to the statutory one and keeping the state grant under control accordingly. The government's package of pensions, which also provides incentives for longer work, is an important step. I should also like to thank the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Family Affairs and our Minister for Integration for addressing the important issue of reducing family allowances for children abroad. This too is an important point in bringing justice to the social system. I would also like to address the issue of care briefly. It should be noted that the care fund could be extended. I believe, however, that we should now use this time, this next period, in which this care fund is upright, to put a sustainable care funding on the feet. The need and also the financial resources make it necessary to establish a truly sustainable system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24576	The next item is Mrs Gamon's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24597	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr Sozialminister! I spoke yesterday about the burdens imposed on the young people with this budget, with the total debt. This really is an inconceivable core dog or pensioner, no matter how you want to call him now, also part of it. Of course, people of old need to be insured, and they should get the pension they have earned, but that's just not how it works. [[Abg. Mayer: That's what you're saying they deserved?]] This system does not help the current pensioners or the boys who pay these pensions, and I will be happy to explain it now, Mr. Mayer. [[Abg. Mayer: That's what you're saying they deserved?]] The total cost will be 180 million €. – Now let’s look at what we’re investing in the future and in the boys! We have €200 million budget for the FWF, €9 million for the research funding fund we spend each year in the youth budget or €87 million investment premium, which has been envisaged but is not even budgeted. For many people, especially for women, old age poverty is a reality, but we still have not managed to set up the system in such a way that people can, by themselves, come out of this state dependency and be independent. Instead of finally telling the citizens the truth in the face, we now come back with such a painting so that they are calmed down until the next election. And the truth must also be said: If you want to pay pensions at a high level, we will not pass that we all have to work longer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I would like to say something to Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, who meant that something would be ideological. To do this, you also have to say: Ideology, from the point of view of the FPÖ, these are always the others. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer for a minimum pension of €1,200 - apologise, that is socialism! A minimum pension of €1,200, regardless of what someone paid? – That’s ideology! That is not budgetary truth, that is not the principle of insurance, that is socialism! Mr Matznetter, I welcome the fact that I can get you so upset every day. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is justice! That's justice!]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Matznetter, Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: These people have worked and paid...! That's really incredible!]] That really shows me that I obviously hit a wounded point. 1 200 € Minimum board, that doesn't even want the SPÖ, that doesn't even want the KPÖ. The KPÖ requires a minimum pension of €1 100. I really think it is very nice that the FPÖ can surpass the Communist Party of Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do nothing! Do continue to study, then understand!]] But yes, let's get back to the point. Who are the most affected by the pension system? – Women suffer most from the Austrian pension system. They are sleeping in poverty, and this is also due, among other things, to the labour market policy that has been made here in recent decades. The problem with women's pensions is and continues to be uneven access to the labour market. We do not give women the opportunity to earn a lot accordingly, so that they also have a pension that is sufficient for them to come out. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] – Yes, but then, with the planned increase in the compensation allowance after 30 years of part-time work – and in this case relatively many women – we have a direct negative incentive to work, which again makes it more attractive to stay in part-time for a long time, so that you can never earn enough to be independent in order to be able to live yourself. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Königsberger-Ludwig]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... and that's why you can't pay 100 €?- Oh, my God!]] The splitting of pensions in Austria has almost no one in recent years – we have now noticed this thanks to a request from Mr Loacker. This does not take anyone into account, and we have established in the effect that we really want to increase the number of women with a decent own pension, as we call it. We want them to work out their own pension and live independently of their partner, but we can only do that if we have an automatic pension split. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24762	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gamon is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24845	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24866	In advance, on behalf of my colleague Cornelia Eckerdie, I would like to welcome the third class of HAK Salzburg. I'm glad you're following our discussion here. You have now come to know for yourselves what my previous speakers have said and that we are living in a very contradictory time. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: What the SPÖ Salzburg thinks!]] On the one hand, it has already happened, we have a record employment in Austria with 3.6 million people working, that is, the highest employment we have ever had in the Second Republic. On the other hand, we do not need to speak well, but we also have 340 000 unemployed people. It is precisely this fact that the budget is also reflected, and this means that the disbursements of unemployment insurance and an increase of almost 16 percent are expected to have a very dynamic development. This is precisely what the Federal Government is trying to counter in a massive way by significantly increasing funding for passive, active and activating labour market policies in 2017. This is certainly not an easy task. Yesterday, our clubman Andreas Schieder mentioned that it is important for us to give future prospects to those people who are affected by unemployment. That means we have to do everything we can to get them back into working life. In particular, since the number of persons with low qualifications and those aged 50 and over are particularly affected by unemployment, it is important to force the qualification measures, which are also to be achieved by means of the decision-making training requirement for young people. I mentioned earlier that all of us cannot care about the rising unemployment rates. But we should think about what it means when fewer and fewer people are producing more and more. We should also consider whether it makes sense to discuss, at a time when we have so high unemployment rates, the increase in daily working hours to twelve hours. This is without any logic that those in employment must spend three million overtimes a year, and that not least by this also older people, who have not grown up at all, will get the famous step in the back and be pushed out of the labour market. That means we should actually talk about something else. We should not discuss whether we are taking away something from those people who live from the minimum security. Nor should we discuss the fact that students who were allowed to study with our taxpayers for free – and we can also be proud of it – are still the hundreds of people who are in need of pensioners. I mean, this is a discussion that, as it is being conducted here, is actually inhuman. [[Abg. Scherak: Mr Spindelberger, we have been demanding tuition fees for ages!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] In other words, we should start a discussion process in a completely different direction. Not only should we talk about the impact of Industry 4.0, but we should focus on how employment will develop more and more rapidly as a result of this increasingly rapid technologicalization and how, as I have said, we want to finance our health insurance system, our entire social system, our pension system, and our health insurance system. We should make every effort.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24928	Mrs Ing. Dietrich's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e24949	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! For the previous discussion Touristists against farmers – Mr Schellhorn has been excited that farmers will be helped in the field of social security – I would like to write to everyone in the parent book: There is no tourism without farmers. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I think it would be good and right to fight together for a successful future and not to be against each other. But now on the main topic of pensions: Pensions are a subject that emotionalizes because it will meet everyone in their lives. At some point, this phase of life is there, and for many, the question is: Is the pension safe? – The Minister always says: The pension is safe. – The question we have to ask ourselves is: Sure, yes – but at what height? What level of pension is safe if we do not finally start reforms, implement a system for all, a fair, transparent system, and finally confess that privileges in this state are no longer in place? [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A large insurance company recently commissioned a survey, a study on financeability. In comparison with 54 countries, Austria is about in the middle, but there is also great concern that the burden from the pension area will rise massively by 2050 and that even from 2030 on, a critical period could be. That is, we need massive action in the field of pensions. If we look at the pensions, we can't talk about the pension, because there are big differences: The average pension for farmers is €777, the worker's €862, the employee's €1 420 and the official's €2,857. In view of these differences, I already ask those responsible in the government: Is it right to go over all areas with 100 € according to the casting pot principle? – I believe that this is not social justice, but it is only there to catch votes in order to catch votes for the next elections. [[Abg. Bösch:... Populism!]] We demand from the government, as soon as possible, that there is at last a uniform system for abolishing the privileges in the field of civil servants. There should be a uniform transparent system for all, and we want massive intervention in existing privileges. On the one hand, they should be cut, and if for legal reasons this is not feasible to the extent that we imagine, on the other hand, a brake should be pulled in with the increase; that is, percentage increase only more up to the ASVG maximum limit, this area should increase properly, then the lower incomes have more. That would be fair. And those who have never paid for it do not have a right to continue to pay for these privileges. In this sense, Minister: You have a lot to do. Make a majority in the government, finally attack this unfair system and create justice for all!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25017	Mr Grillitsch is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25039	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter of work, social affairs, consumer protection and pension insurance is a budget chapter that covers the lives of all in this country, in this Republic, whether large, small, whether farmers, whether employees, economic operators, or pensioners. All of us are required. This is actually a budget chapter where we can say: We all sit in a boat, no matter where someone comes from, no matter what profession someone exercises. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Riemer and Mr Pirklhuber.]] That is why I do not understand the use of this discussion to polarize within the professional groups, ladies and gentlemen. I'll tell you: When it comes to having safe foods that we want to have a beautiful landscape, everyone – rightly – speaks in the highest tones of our hard-working farmers in this country and of what they have done, namely to maintain a cultural landscape that is also a basis for flourishing tourism. We all agree in this. But when it comes to farmers, everyone, whether or not they are farmers Large or small farmers, miners or valley farmers, cattle farmers or cereal farmers, then we have class-warming discussions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] That, ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand! With me and with us, the farmers, when they provide services to society, are all equal, regardless of whether large or small farmers. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I cannot understand what proposal you made in the Council of Ministers when it comes to suspending farmers' social security contributions for the last quarter. That's where I tell you... [[Abg. Loacker: Too generous!]] – Mr Loacker, you are ashamed to abuse the farmers in order to get into socialist class struggle! [[Abg. Loacker: You abuse...!]] The farmers didn't deserve that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker:... your farm beans!]] We have a demographic explosion. That's what we should deal with. People get older, people are God's thanks to healthier, pensions rise, pension subsidies rise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Therefore, we should look at how we can ensure the security of these services for our people in Austria. [[Abg. Oils:... there is no!]] I believe that the most important measure would not only be to discuss what social expenditure we can increase – this is also very important – but it would be the most important task to return to an economic policy and tax policy that focuses on the location that focuses on the economic location in which: We can secure and create jobs! Save and create income! We can secure and create the purchasing power in this country so that everyone in this Republic can do well!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25166	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25187	Mr President. Minister! High house! Values Watchers on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! I would like to dedicate myself to the consumer protection budget today and start with a positive one. [[placing a board with a newspaper article entitled “Austria’s Households Losing in Purchasing Power” on the speaker’s desk]] Mr Stöger, unlike your predecessor, Minister Hundstorfer, you have not missed any meeting of the Consumer Protection Committee; Minister Hundstorfer has not visited the Committee for a year and a half. That's the positive. In retrospect, I must say, if I think, I might have a statement: Minister Hundstorfer has at least been nagging for what does not happen in consumer protection. They obviously do not generate themselves, because nothing happens at every committee meeting on consumer protection. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us perhaps come to the figures very briefly: 0.03 Promills of the total budget of the State of Austria are being planted in the field of consumer protection. That's hot € 4.5 million. I believe that this is also the case with the naked figures on the importance of consumer protection in this government in the case of red and black, namely, none at all. You may also be able to open it a little by means of the competent consumer protection spokesperson: The speaker for consumer protection of the Reds, the SPÖ, Mrs Lueger, is obviously also today, and is not here at all; she has been apologized. Mrs. Fichtinger, I think, has also left her. She's not in the hall anymore. Mr Aslan from the Greens fights very strongly in the Turkish conflict, but I think that too little for the consumers in Austria. The NEOS are at least honest enough to say that consumer protection does not play a role in the party programme. We still have an ally, Obmann Leo Steinbichler, who at least tries to keep the Consumer Protection Committee alive. [[Abg. Oils: He's coming to you anyway!]] What would be the task? – Mr Stöger, you are the Minister for Consumer Protection, but, several times, we have said that you are completely overwhelmed in this function, and you do not continue at all! We only have an institute in Austria, namely the VKI, which still guarantees consumer protection in Austria. The VKI has been fighting for years for survival, and they are starving financially. Now, even the trade union has left the VKI, which means that one can break something that started in the 1970s and which probably had positive effects on the consumers in Austria. Now he's gonna be a little alive for another year. I would like to point out: The VKI has a self-financing rate of almost 75 percent at a budget of € 12 million. He is the last bastion we still have in Austria for consumer protection. What does the Austrian consumer in principle have for a feeling? – I demonstrated it here, it is quite clear: [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]] Of course, every household loses noticeably in purchasing power. – This is a story, and you would be responsible for preventing it. On the other hand, more and more people in Austria feel helplessly delivered to the interests of large companies, and you play with them. They're protecting the big corporations, I'm just thinking about CETA or all the banking stories. That is to say, you are not the protector of consumers in Austria, but rather the representative of the international large companies. I would like to mention briefly the negative balance of Stöger, and I am starting with the current issue of banknote fees. There too: hot air of hounds, hot air of Stäger! Meanwhile, we have the banknote fees to all watch, no one writes about it anymore. The Austrian press obviously is interested in any dog photo more than the banknote fees that meet each Austrian daily. So here too, Mr Minister – you always promise solutions, I do not see the solutions – nothing is on the table at all! Overdrafts and bank fees are also a topic. I would like to give you once again the example of overdrafting interest rates in the banking sector: 1 million € costs the bank 500 € a year, the bank brings in the overdraft area 132 000 €. Here too, Minister, the following applies: You promise, but you don't keep anything! The interest rates are still exorbitantly high, and hundreds of thousands of Austrians have to do so every month. State deposit guarantee – remembering who forgot: The State has adopted the guarantee in the banking sector. That is, there is now a banking consortium to do this. How this should work sometime in the crisis, I look at it. This means that the state no longer is liable for bank deposits up to € 100 000. – This too is a failure of the Minister of Consumer Protection! Limits on rent and reduction in housing costs: nothing happens! Single Consumer Protection Act: there are always only promises! You say you're having conversations, but nothing happened. I feel that is very right for you, because then, Mr Minister, you can always use the excuse that you are not responsible, but that the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Transport or the Minister for Economic Affairs is responsible. You as Minister of Consumer Protection are never responsible if you are asked for anything. ORF fees, also a current topic: Everyone knows that it is not only €600 million that consumers in Austria have to afford, no, it also threatens to raise a fee. I have not even heard a sentence from your mouth, Mr Minister. – Smell, who thinks evil with it! It is likely that the red leadership in the ORF and the red Minister for Consumer Protection are of the opinion. Possibility of collection complaints: not implemented either! They simply removed the Consumer Policy Forum. That is, 2016 does not happen to professionals in this area at all, and that is again a sign more that you want to abolish it more or less. Private bankruptcy and 10 percent clause: nothing happens! Inflation and Fees Stop: Nothing happens; see the figures! Kilometer money increase and pendler fee: nothing has happened since 2011! Smart meter: a theme that has fallen asleep! I say it again: Here, too, all consumers in Austria – and necessarily – are threatened with data protection problems. The Minister of Consumer Protection is asleep or watching! Stop food waste – also a topic that you should and should deal with –: Nothing happens, except nice contributions! Food waste continues every day, there is no action on your part. Food safety, gene salmon, gene apples, similar more: no response either! To TTIP and CETA I say once again, that's a stepwet of the story that Trump is now apparently stopping TTIP. That's actually laughing: It needs a president Trump who suddenly stops TTIP! We have to say that it is almost a pity that he is not ruling in Canada, then CETA would have been prevented, because you did not succeed, Minister! I come to the end – very important and very briefly –: You should actually be the lawyer of consumers in Austria, you should above all protect the broad population from the predatory capitalism of international corporations, but you do nothing for the population! [[Abg. Aslan: What are you doing?]] It is high time you cleared the chair, that a free consumer protection minister can come and finally breathe up Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25254	The next speaker is Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25275	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! This was a round-up against our successful Federal Minister Alois Stöger, who has shown that he is making a budget in this difficult situation. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where is he successful?]] When I see the sub-group 20, work, which has an increase of 6.7 percent compared to the 2016 proposal, I believe that this envelope is not justified. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: These were all the facts I explained!]] Now to the budget: In the chapter Work, subgroup 20, €8.6 billion has been entered in the budget. As has already been said, this is 6.7 percent more than in the Federal Estimate for 2016. We are fighting unemployment and, in general, we are different, ladies and gentlemen, from some others, because we want to fight unemployment and not unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One important point in the budget is, of course, the fight against youth unemployment. This is a very big point, a explosive for the future. I should like to make a few points: We have the measures in employment promotion, the insolvency allowance fund, we provide about €1.6 billion for corporate apprenticeship funding in 2017. One important point, of course, is training and training guarantee up to 18 years, with us making available for this measure to € 57 million for 2017. To this end, I would like to say that there is a great willingness to negotiate on the part of social democracy and that there is also a Quasi agreement that we should extend this training guarantee until 25 years. I would like to make an urgent appeal to Mr Schelling, our Minister for Finance, but to give his agreement to these €39.2 million for 2017, so that we can also decide on this successful training guarantee tomorrow by means of an amendment that will come from the government parties. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The budget is a big budget, it meets the challenges that are certainly not easy. Mr. Federal Minister, it will not be easy, but I am confident that we will create this obstacle just as we have in recent years for 2017 and congratulate it on this increase in resources for active labour market policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25337	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25358	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat irritated by the fact that the issue of minimum security has hardly played a role so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] ÖGB President Foglar called the de facto abolition of the minimum guarantee the largest social policy downturn in the last 15 years. I do not know how Mr Foglar comes to 15 years of age, because I believe that the fact that we do not now only have a minimum guarantee that deserves this name, but also falls far behind the old system of social assistance, is a so serious step back in the social policy, that one could in fact only yell more about the irration that is now, in certain circles, obvious, and also about cynicism and recklessness, with which the poorest of the poor in this republic is being acted. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think this is simply a disaster, and I do not blame the Federal Minister for it at all. At the address of some in the ÖVP – there is enough in the ÖVP, which also considers this to be a disaster – something about a point that played a role in the speech of Mr Wöginger: We need to talk about the rules on feasibility, Mr Wöginger has said so clearly. [[Abg. Wheeler: That's right!]] In view of a serious rise in unemployment, the social spokesperson of the ÖVP sees nothing but to talk about strengthening the rules on visibility. This is not an approach to combating unemployment! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I have already experienced some increases in unemployment, thanks to God, there have always been relative declines, but every time the ÖVP has come with the strengthening of the rules of visibility. Every time she's gotten through, too. It is not true that due to increasing unemployment, which is an insanity, because one does not fit on the other, the increased rules of visibility have changed something about unemployment, but the rules of visibility have always been tightened; tightened, intensified, heightened! And now that we have the greatest unemployment in this Republic, we should be intensifyed once again. However, I would also like to use my speech to address Mr Kickl's comments, but not his cheap polemic towards the Federal Presidency election campaign – that is self-evident. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, you would never do that!]] He has referred to some of the facts which also result from the answers he has made to the question. He was excited that foreigners – refugees, but not only refugees, but migrants – represent such a high proportion of the training of the AMS. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He found it!]] – I find no disadvantage at all in this. I think it's great that at least the AMS refugees – I hope it does it well – continue to be educated in German skills, in other qualifications. I would like to see the same energy that the AMS obviously spends on the German skills and other qualifications of refugees being used by the economy in order to be able to take up refugees on the labour market. They have qualifications, but they are not suitable for our labour market. [[Abg. Wooker: 10 percent!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] You have qualifications! And these are people who are partly from economies... [[Abg. Wöginger: 90 out of 100 have no qualification!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – A qualification, colleague Wöginger, according to our standards they do not have there You're right, but these are people who can manage. So it's not like that. You just have to listen a little more closely to where your qualifications lie and see how we could make them useful to us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Fekter: Dreamry! Social romance, but not reality!]] But I would like to say something to Mr Kickl. He was excited that these people were so strongly represented in the training courses. I say again, I like it! But Mr Kickl's request or the Minister's reply shows that they are far below the average anywhere else where the AMS pays out benefits! In the case of benefits such as pension advance, redundancies, employment grants, the proportion of foreigners outside the EU is 6.1 percent, in part-time education, 1.7 percent, in continuing education, and in the case of educational leave. That is, for foreigners outside the EU – I have not included the EU foreigners now – this is a disastrously low share. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Wöinger.]] Now I'm gonna tell you something: How does what Mr Kickl said fit in with what FPÖ writes in its “Handbook of Freedom of Policy”? – Very good even, very good! There it says: “The aim must therefore be to return to their homeland, according to the principle of ‘minus immigration’ in Austria.” – It does not say: only the refugees, it does not say: any criminal foreigners, there says: all foreigners! [[Abg. Fekter: The tourists too?]] – So that was one of the stupidest calls I’ve ever heard, and for that I like to take a call for order...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25533	Deputies! You know that such personal attacks do not benefit the reputation of this house. – Do you want to take the expression back? [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Then I give you a call for order and I very much regret that you don’t even see something improper has done.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25573	I am sorry, Mr President, but there is no other way to go about a certain form of call.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25592	Mr President, you are close to the second call for order, and you know what happens at the third time.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25607	What I said was that, according to the “Handbook on Freedom Policy”, all foreigners should be traced back. Do you know what that means? And in the “Handbook of Freedom of Politics” it is then explained in detail how this should work. Here we come back to Mr Kickl's comments – these concern the Serbs, they concern the Turks, so quite a non-small group of people. It says in it: Foreigners should no longer be cared for by the AMS, no more, no more employment for foreigners! That is what the FPÖ programme says, and the "Legal Freedom Policy Manual" is not something! It says that they are not supposed to pay unemployment insurance anymore and therefore not receive benefits. This means that if foreigners become unemployed, they will not receive benefits and can therefore be postponed according to our existing right of residence. There is still much to be said about what is contained in the 'Legal Freedom Policy' manual, but I come to another point to talk about, namely what you are trying to do with your request for pensions. It is also noted that the liberals have no idea how the system works or how it could be improved. They require a minimum pension of € 1,200. – Yes, I would also afford them to everyone and everyone in Austria. [[Abg. Peter Worm: But?]] But what does that mean? [[Call the ÖVP:3 billion!]] – At present, the compensation allowance is approximately € 890 gross. That's little, I know. My mother also receives a compensation allowance, so I know how difficult it is to live with a compensation allowance not only in the country but, above all, in the city. Therefore, it would of course be very good if the minimum pension amounted to €1,200. But in the range from 1 000 € to 1 200 € lies the majority of Austrian pensions, most people no longer have! That is, if I were to actually increase to € 1,200, I would have to grant this increase to about a million people. It costs billions! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We want this! You don't!]] Secondly, Mr Worm – if you think so – you should be clear about this too, of course you should also give an increase to all the people who are just over €1 200. It is not to be justified that someone who has 1 €201 pension claim will suddenly receive significantly less in proportion... [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Are the Greens against it, Mr. Oillinger?]] – Well, of course, because there are much better solutions and because this is a solution that would cost billions a year! Billions a year! And you'll have to tell us where you're from. You take these billions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] That is the point, ladies and gentlemen: The FPÖ has no idea of social policy, and it does not want any!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25715	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25736	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! First of all, I can welcome a delegation from the FCG and the GPA from Upper Austria, which have come to see their August Wöinger – I suppose –: Welcome! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Those who have now followed this statement, who, I believe, do not know whether this is a real policy, but I would perhaps like to refer to an interlocutory point at first, namely that of Mr Loacker, because he may have gone down. He whom I refer as an employee of the elite, namely a Mr. Hazelsteiner, a representative of the currently seemingly very successful trick that makes for Mr. Hofer's election advertising by no longer knowing the perception of the people for himself... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] [[Abg. Loacker:... or correct it briefly?]] Mr Loacker, you have no right, during the speech of Mr Grillitsch, to speak of ‘farmer beans’. [[Abg. Loacker: Do I have to be told by a... official and national councillor?]] It has gone down, but that, I think, does not distinguish you as a former member of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25797	Mr Rädler! I didn't hear it, but I'll have the protocol come.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25812	That's one thing. Second, the speech of Mr. Ollinger: After such long political activity in real policy, he did not arrive at all, but continued to be caught in his left area of perception. It's getting worse what's meant to us here. Have you ever been to a guest house? Have you ever talked to a host? – If we talk today about how many chefs are needed, I would like to give you an example as mayor: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hakel and Mr Lugar]] Sit down and listen in a community on a speech day, which is the real concerns of the citizens. In my municipality there is a company with 140 employees in the tourism sector. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] 80 percent of employees are from Hungary. At the same time, however, my community also has an unemployment rate of 10 percent. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Oils.]] There are many who come to me; and if I say that there is a place out there, there is a possibility to work in the thermal bath at the reception – I don't say now, in the service area as a waitress or whatever – then the answer comes that you have to work on Saturday and Sunday and don't want it. They want to click on us that it is not reasonable for a group of people to take on another activity. They do not know the rural regions from which people – like my region – travel an hour to Vienna every day to work! That's reasonable! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hakel and Mr Oellinger.]] What are you talking about? – You are so far from reality in your left perception area, and you get support from the colleague over there. [[Other calls from Mr Hakel and Mr Oellinger.]] – Yes, continue that way, but you will probably be punished even more by the voters than before, and you too! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] [[Calls and calls between MEPs Wöginger, Öllinger and Walser]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's have time, and you and the voters will be able to see what the right way for Austria is! Of course I have to come back to the budget. I should like to thank the Minister for his contribution to the consumer protection budget. The VKI has to deal with problems as the social partners have withdrawn from the teaching and therefore of course do not have the appropriate appreciation of the VKI. It is a matter of the appropriate appreciation that around 215 procedures are carried out by the VKI each year, and that a value of goods of € 30 million will be introduced each year. That's a performance that I think needs to be appreciated. The donation that the federal government has taken over the costs, namely about €610 000 for the complaint proceedings, also marks the content of this budget. In conclusion, however, I would like to mention briefly the changed form we find in consumer protection, namely food labelling or various other things that have been employed by the CCI in recent years. This is now changing rapidly, namely to cybercrime. Around €2 billion of damage will be done alone in the domestic companies. Two thirds of domestic companies are already affected by such attacks. That is where we need to promote prevention, and there is also a need for consumer protection. The VKI is already following these paths. We are therefore required to do so with the necessary dosage in the future. I hope that this will find its rainfall again next year, and say thank you for the donations in the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25908	Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein is speaking on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25933	Mr President. In his speech, Mr Oellinger referred to a quote from the 'Legal of Freedom Policy' of page 31, which he quoted as follows: “The aim must therefore be to restore foreigners to their home country in line with the principle of ‘minus immigration’.” They have added that there is no criminal foreigner here and that it refers to everyone. That's wrong! You didn't read the paragraph. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: It was a lie!]] It can be read for all Austrians. These are those who have become “criminal, show inconsistencies or have no place in the labour market”. – This is also readable online for all Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This is typical, Mr. Ollinger!]] If you had dealt with this, Mr Oellinger, you would know...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e25995	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the comment no longer belongs to the correction. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26025	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Wurm! It is no wonder that the FPÖ is interested in Turkey's policy or Syria's policy, because you are exactly the ones who looked away during wars and crises and then excited about the refugees. Please be ashamed! Peace policy must be a matter for all Members of this House! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Are we going to march into Syria?]] [[Intervening calls from Deputies Peter Wurm and Hafenecker.]] On Consumer Protection, Member of the Worm: No wonder you feel that you are outsiders in consumer protection, because you only bring in the most embarrassing applications without concrete content, without any concrete proposal. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Because you don't have time to read...!]] This is also the reason why you are really embarrassingly pointing your finger at others today, because what the FPÖ does make consumer protection policy, that is just a policy of announcement. They do not deliver any content at all. In the future, please let the lawyers review your requests, we can continue to negotiate your requests in the Committee! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – Mr Worm, listening is one of the most difficult forms of communication, but who am I telling? – The FPÖ is well known for its form of communication. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, I do not want to waste my speaking time with the FPÖ, but rather to talk about consumer protection. [[Call the FPÖ: Don't always be so hypocritical!]] Of course, it is important to ensure that consumer organisations, consumer conciliation bodies, are well financed and secured. [[Call the FPÖ:Removed!]] One has to say only because we have just experienced the current debate on banknote fees, that you, Mr Minister, have also noted that the group complaint is a very important legal instrument. At that time, Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer said that the group complaint can be a very favourable means and model. It is alleged that there has been a draft for years, but there has also been no sign of implementation for years. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Are you for banknote fees? Are the Greens now for banknote fees?]] So you have to help out some way. Another important point would, of course, be the financing of the VKI, because, as you know, we have noticed at the VW scandal how important it is that the VKI needs independent funding. On the one hand, there have been the interests of workers represented by the AK and on the other hand there have been consumer interests represented by the VKI. This can't work if the AK somehow co-finances the VKI. There are always conflicts of interest. How can you solve that? – We Greens have already made a proposal: This can be solved if the VKI can really be financed exclusively by the deposit of the cartel penalties. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That was our proposal, Mrs. Colleague! You just took over!]] [[Calls and counter-calls between Mr Fichtinger and Mr Hafenecker.]] There is also a revision of the antitrust law, since you, Mr Minister, have already indicated that you will also use the matter. I hope that the government will soon agree on a common approach. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26164	The next item is Mrs Gessl-Ranftl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26185	Mr President. Minister! High house! I too am speaking about UG 21, consumer protection. For consumer protection, € 4.5 million more are available in 2017 than in 2016, which is a plus of € 1.4 million. [[Abg. Peter Worm: A total of 2.5...!]] This plus mainly serves to finance and secure the Consumer Information Association, VKI. Mr Wurm, I do not know if you were at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, because our Minister has also made it clear that it is crucial for him to ensure that VKI funding is publicly secured, as was said in the Budget Committee meeting, that is, as my previous speaker said, by the innovation of antitrust law, which will previously be available to Parliament. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We've heard that for years! It's gonna be... nothing!]] To the VKI: This association is essential for consumer protection. I looked at a 2015 statistics. A total of 47 500 free first-time consultations have been carried out, and in some 4,000 cases even more extensive personal advice was needed. Around 50 percent of the total requests concern general consumer law. In 2015, there were numerous complaints regarding craft services, including, in particular, installers and key services. A further focus was also on banks and life insurance. Propos Banks: In my opinion, it is really not understandable that a bank has recently written thousands of customers and has put them before the alternative to put their old account back on and choose a new more expensive account model, otherwise their old account will be cancelled. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Mrs. Collaborator, turn around and tell the Minister, not us!]] The fees of the new account would increase by a multiple number. The AK has also charged an invoice: The cheapest account in the previous year cost €88 at 280 bookings, but at the new account it will be €150. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: This is your Minister, Mrs. Colleague! It's not a free minister, it's your minister!]] Moreover, the fact that banknote settlements and automatic transactions would no longer be free of charge in the case of cheaper variants. Although the banks – and this has often been heard – have announced that there will be no banknote fees, even for their own customers, but they would be introduced or at least maintained for their own customers. In my opinion, this is proof that we need a law on this, and I hope that the ÖVP may still be lagging behind, so that we can decide a law that there will be no banknote fees in the future. Consumer protection is an issue that will also demand us over the next few years and will certainly not lose sight of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26274	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26295	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Finance Act 2017, Divisions of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection: It has been mentioned several times that we have a major problem with high unemployment. This cannot be disputed by anyone, and everything must be done to eliminate this high level of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the breakdown of social and consumer protection, UG 21. More funds will be available for consumer protection in 2017 – it has just been addressed by my previous speaker. Unfortunately, the plus of € 1.4 million compared to the previous year is far too small and should mainly serve the financial security of the VKI. The budget includes € 4.5 million. Consumer protection is an important task; the legal position of consumers needs to be further strengthened and expanded. Many procedures, food labelling, the Internet, financial services, have been performed positively in favour of consumers in recent years. The VKI is an important institution and must not continue to be starved, Minister! I think it's remembered that the cartel of antitrust law should ensure funding. We hope so, because people need consumer protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26328	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26350	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Under the chapter on labour and social affairs, we also find a subject that is very crucial to our future, namely the chapter Pensions in the UG 22. We are at the interface with content: on the one hand, social responsibility for our older fellow citizens, on the other hand, we are very much concerned with financing the future. At this point I can also welcome the representatives, the students of the BG and BRG Lilienfeld, who are visiting us today. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Especially when we think of these young people, this Spagat is very important to us, since we have to get away from the ideological principle discussion that we always have at pensions. I think it's both about it and it's about it. Let's look at the numbers – I think they're well-known, but once again summarized –: We must already be aware that already in the 2017 budget, a grant to state pensions amounting to € 10.7 billion is planned! If you add the expenditure on civil servants' pensions, you get €20 billion, and that goes anyway – and that's what I'm saying. the decisive in relation to the reference size – 25 percent of all payments from the Federal budget towards pensions. However, this is not a question – I would like to stress this very explicitly – of dissuading a system. In principle, we have a good pension system, but it needs to be further developed, because the forecasts speak a clear language. We see that by 2020 an increase in the grant to the ASVG-pensions is planned by another 30 percent and by 15.6% for officials. So we see a great dynamic, but at two different speeds. These different speeds are due to significant reform steps already taken by the government in the field of civil servants' pensions. The grants actually only rise half as much as they do in the ASVG area. On the topic of the future for our people – I have addressed the young people – it is quite clear that further efficient solutions are needed to ensure a state pension system that we have and, in principle, I have already mentioned it, it is good to continue. On the other hand, of course, it is about maintaining the standard of living for people and thus also the purchasing power in the future. I would like to take four out of a few points that are well-remembered to us; with three, I am convinced that if we discuss the matter, we will be able to agree very well, at one point – that is, I am coming to speak at once – I am already giving up any hope. The first point is the approximation of the actual retirement age to the statutory one. There are at least first small successes, but it is clear that there are further measures to be taken. The second point is that of which I would say: Let us forget it, namely, the approximation of the age of women's retirement age – certainly with due regard for child rearing times. But I think that's where we're in an ideological discussion. I would actually be very much for equality, but this is not feasible: Gifted! Let's forget that point! The third point, ladies and gentlemen, is the link between the retirement age and life expectancy. I believe that this is such a logical step that it informs every citizen and every citizen in our country. In many European countries, this measure has already been implemented with great success. The fourth point is the extension of the second and third pillars of the pension system, namely supplementary pensions. It is intended to be clearly safeguarded by the expansion of the occupational pension scheme, but also private pension schemes, especially for our young Austrians, even in the future of the standard of living. We often talk about the three-column system, very abstract, but it is quite simple and simply a healthy, reasonable addition: on the one hand, a state, stable system, a first pillar, which primarily serves to ensure the existence, and on the other hand, the supplementary pensions that are intended to maintain the standard of living. This is precisely what we need in the case of occupational pensions, because we achieve this – and this is a social idea – all workers, from the porter to the procurist, from the cleaning power to the Director-General. We have to get into the area. Today, only 24 percent of Austrians have a supplementary farm. This is about a comprehensive expansion. Let's see it like the butter on the bread; the bread: the state pension that guarantees the livelihood; the butter on it: the holding pension. And where you can afford it: a very useful extra private pension, namely various precautions that you know – that would be the sausage on the bread. This really ensures the standard of living for our future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying: It is not about discussing which of these three systems is better. Every system has its advantages, every system has its strengths, and it is about combining these strengths and thus securing the standard of living of the Austrians, so that, of course, the purchasing power can be secured and, as a result, also secure jobs in our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26425	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26446	Mr President. Mr Stöger and Mr Rupprechter! Ladies and gentlemen. Advisors in front of the televisions, in the gallery and in that group of representatives of the biogas plants, who are a living example of the fact that the government's promises do not hold, and now perhaps have to pay for them with their livelihoods! But now to this budget chapter: I should like to speak on the beginning of the debate, on the comments made by Mr Schwentner. My previous speaker just spoke about the different ideologies. Yes, that's very important! The colleague spoke in 2050. I also bled forward: In 2050 I am 91, and then, unlike my colleague Schwentner, I have the goal and the great joy that I hope I will be cared for by my great-grandle and enkerln, in the circle of my family can happily tell about my life and perhaps share some valuable experience. We need to see how important this family image is especially in the social field and how important this picture is for budget costs in this area, because the family is the most important and smallest cell, from birth to care. I don't want to be cared for by a robot. There is always talk of the 24-hour help, where unfortunately, due to bad wages, only foreign nurses can be found. I would like to be cared for by family members in dignity and esteem. Thank you at this point to all nurses, all family members who are willing to work daily in the care and to do the most valuable work. A sincere hearty retribution of God! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] It was spoken of by ideologies – I may come later on to protect the consumer – and therefore immediately to the colleague Loacker. Mr President, I would ask you to discuss this with the farmers, how the privileges are there. You're working at a bank, so... Look at the privileged accounts of your farmers! At this point I can refer to this pension plan which I used yesterday. These are the average pensions of the Austrians: For farmers it is €777 and for officials €2,877. I refer to the last study of Statistics Austria, in which the working hours were collected: 4.1 million people in employment in Austria, 562,000 of them in the six-day and seven-day weeks, mainly gastronomy and farmers. I'm sure I can limit it quite clearly: 284,000 during the seven-day week, most of which are gastronomy and farmers with animal husbandry, the hardest form of farm management. Mr Loacker, I can already imagine that it would be nice if I could even put in a weekend of hot tubs with my family, that would be wonderful. I believe that this would also be beneficial for family life. We need to take care of this at work – but let one of the people here make a proposal on how this should work. I am very lacking in any proposals, including those made by Mr Oellinger. One can not only make socio-romantic proposals, the whole must also be eligible for funding. [[Abg. Oils: I didn't do it! You didn't watch that!]] Reasons for a company, Mr. Col., pay wages once in your life! Let us speak of the one who pays them, and not of what is demanded. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] That's typical! When it comes to proposals, the liberals are responsible. You spoke... [[Abg. Oils: You don't understand anything!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Please, Mr Oellinger, we can discuss this. We have to be so far as to present proposals, and I want to make them. Mr Loacker, we are always talking about unemployment and training; the word itself already says everything: Being unemployed is a very hard deal. And Mr Schellhorn has already mentioned it: The longer the period when you are away from active employment, the more difficult it is to get back into the labour market. That is why I said at the general debate yesterday that we must re-occupy the concept of work: Work is life's content, work is sense of life and work is joy of life. Dear colleague, if you say an hour of getting to work is reasonable, I'll ask you if it's manageable. [[Abg. Oellinger: That is now possible! You don't watch! You have no idea!]] The driver as a milk cow of this nation cannot afford to do so, even if he comes from the rural area that we are ruining. And I'll come to the next table right now. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, show your plates!]] Yes, Mr President, that would be a fundamental issue for the Greens. It is sad that I have to present this This is the taste of the home country – from the German magazine “Star” – that is the lie with the quality seal in the food. [[on a board on which a picture of the interior of a food factory can be seen under the heading “The fairy tale of good food”]] In advertising, the pigs ride with the balloon, in which advertising even speaks to the farmer – that is the reality, there it comes! [[pointing to the image]] This is the Spanish plastic village with 40,000 greenhouses. [[pointing to another table]] The “star ” no longer writes greenhouses, they are greenhouses. And the poor consumer often has to pay for this at overpriced prices – now we are back on consumer protection – in the opinion that we have done something for regionality. And that is irresponsible! Minister, in the afternoon the environment and agriculture are still in place, but now we are dealing with consumer protection, which is why I would like to thank the VKI, the Association for Consumer Information, and the Federal Competition Authority – they have so many tasks, look at this! A huge task that we have ahead of us is – and this must be the main issue – that we must finally clarify what comes from the region, what the region serves, which jobs are secured. I would like to conclude with the following number, Mr Oellinger: 120 000 small, most valuable farms were closed. This is exactly the number of unemployed we have, because each farm secures three jobs, one in the in-house area and one in the downstream area. These are the problems which cause the costs in the social field, and we must therefore, in principle, make completely new considerations. Mr Minister of Agriculture, I hope you will explain to us in the afternoon how you can reconcile the fact that you are going to the environmental conferences while at the same time saying: I am a supporter of globalisation! – But we'll discuss this extra. Mr. Minister of Consumer Protection, I ask you to support us in preparing this food scandal very quickly, as I call it. There's a lot of work in front of us. 100 percent of our consumers deserve to get honest goods on their plate for their hard-earned money. We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26553	Mr Stöger has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26574	Mr President. High house! My very dear listeners here in the hall and in front of the televisions! It is important for me to point out some of the issues that have been raised. Mrs Jarmer said that in the overall budget there are fewer resources available for people with disabilities. That seems to be the case, but it is not the case, quite the contrary. We have expanded the project funding for people with disabilities from 2016 to 2017 by € 5 million. The funds for individual support in the compensation tax fund have remained the same, at the level of € 42 million. We also have more resources in the area of integrative plants. All in all, we and I are particularly concerned about the funds in the field of labour market services, in the area of unemployment insurance, that we are particularly promoting people with health restrictions, especially with restrictions on mediation. In 2016, we will provide additional support to around 70,000 people with an estimated € 405 million. We will continue to do so in 2017. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let me add a few more information on consumer protection! I think it is very crucial that we have the means to support the Consumer Information Association publicly. I thank all employees working in the Consumer Information Association for their work. They do great work in the interests of consumers. They are those who help strengthen the position of consumers. 80 percent of our funds flow to the VKI. 250 procedures are being conducted there, in the interests of consumers. A topic that has been discussed very intensively in recent times – Mrs Gessl-Ranftl has referred to it –: How do banks deal with their customers? There needs to be a clear position, and I've always been there clearly and very strongly placed behind the VKI and, if it has to be, also put before the VKI that it may and should bring all complaints – it is about strengthening consumers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have 52 000 consultations in the Consumer Information Association, which strengthens consumers, where they get information. The journal “Consument” is very important from my point of view. I would also like to point out one thing, and this concerns the entire food sector: Together with the Ministry of Health and the VKI, we have carried out the Food-Check project, which concerns that we take a very special look at the product preparations in the sensitive food sector. Consumer protection will change, as in the future it will focus on the following questions: What is happening in the Internet trade, and how do we deal with it? There is a need for strong consumer protection, and I am committed to ensuring that there is fair conditions between suppliers and consumers. I say to all those who want to pull consumers over the table: That's not possible, we're going to look very closely! I am concerned that we are strengthening the role of consumers in all areas of consumer protection together.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26629	Mr Bacher is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26650	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! If consumer protection is inconceivable in everyday life, the forces available to protect consumers are strong. This is also reflected in the budget. Especially in times of national, European and international networking, effective consumer protection is all the more important. If these institutions are weakened or the budget for these institutions is reduced, it is precisely those who need this protection most, namely the weakest in our society. People whose salary is often not enough even to cover the livelihood can not also afford legal protection, but not because they spend too much, but because the cost of living is too high compared to income; but this is another subject. From the point of view of consumer protection, it is very positive to assess that the protection of consumers in the budget is an important issue. However, I would like to take up two more things which have already been said here today, once by my colleague, Mr Schatz and once by colleagues Wöginger, namely on the issue of the shortage of skilled workers in the kitchens in the area of tourism. The figures that my colleague has called treasure are not quite correct. Surveys at the tourist schools have shown that 70 percent of apprentices announced in the first year of education that they had made the decision for the profession of the cook at their own request, personally. As early as the third year of teaching, 50 percent of apprentices are so far as they say they want to change their profession immediately after the graduation examination. They call the pay and the working time conditions the main reason. If you try other ways to cover this, for example, by adding the profession cook to the list of failures, then, I think, this is the wrong way, the wrong approach. Here comes the red-white red card into play, and we know that these people can then choose freely on the labour market after ten months and change the profession of the cook again to another if we do not change the conditions. The Labour Chamber President of Salzburg invited the leading touristists in the regions on this issue; I was there too, and we discussed what could be done there. Mrs Petra Nocker-Schwarzenbacher has also come to realize that we need to change the framework conditions, we already have to start continuing education and training so that we can move forward. Ms Belakovich-Jenewein, on the subject of minimum insurance/SPÖ Salzburg: Yes, you have read the quote from the “Salzburger Nachrichten” correctly, but if you had researched exactly, then you would have found the whole interview and also the other broadcasts to do so and saw that Walter Steidl has said very well that it is necessary to make changes in the minimum security. Whether that goes under a different name or not, basically it is about: less cash benefits, more benefits in kind, and the whole thing linked to different conditions. If the FPÖ speaks here in the hall on the subject of work, social protection and consumer protection, I am always aware of the saying of the dog to be careful of the crack sausage. This cannot work, because the FPÖ is a party which is not always unattended here again and again to weaken institutions such as the Chamber of Labour and the Trade Union, and this is not approved by the workers, which is also reflected in the representations. [[Congratulations and Bravoruf at SPÖ]] In the institutions fighting for the rights of workers, in the Chambers of Workers, in the trade unions, the FPÖ plays a subordinate role, precisely because of the strength in which it is represented, and actually falls under the protection of species; therefore, I am not concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26711	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26733	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! €22 billion makes up this package in the area of social and labour, which we are now discussing. It is one area that is involved in all our areas of life, which affects every citizen, whether it be employment, care, pensions, consumer protection, whether it be active labour market policy, whether it be unemployment care, training or much more. We know from the day-to-day process that all these areas are subject to enormous changes, changes that are constantly taking place, which occur in part to a dramatic extent and at a speed that will also make it necessary here to counter these changes and to set up new structures again and again. In principle, we have an excellent base in Austria, which has developed over the last decades, but with many social benefits, I expect faster, more realistic developments, sometimes less ideologised or less class combat or those that take place with less enlightened views – as it has often been noted – but a further development that is based on facts and which is the basis of reality. This is the budget, we are the people of this country, and we are particularly guilty of it to the coming generations. Mr Loacker, you have said that the figures of this budget are very important to you, you have talked about the figures, but you have then drifted into a embarrassing polemic tirade against the profession of the farmers. I can only shake my head, like many others. You have referred to the proposal to grant farmers a quarterly payment of the social security of farmers. If you were really interested in figures, you would have adopted the Green Report, which is the official numbering work on the development of agriculture and forestry and in which it is documented for the fourth time in a row that there is a dramatic loss of income each year – in 2015 a minus of 17 percent. I've already explained it here: These are not companies that are purely specialized, but these are also establishments that are the basis of supply of this state, producing the goods we need daily: the grain from which the semis, the bread, the noodles and much more is made, the daily liter of fresh milk, the piece of cheese, the yogurt, the pot or also the piece of meat for the pan, for the grill, for the sausage, for the ham and much more. All these operating areas have come under the wheels dramatically in recent years. There are dramatic losses of income, so please do not forget the difficulties that have been brought here in this way. What we must not forget in this context is how many jobs in the remote and downstream areas are on agriculture. There is also the tourism to be mentioned, which Mr Schellhorn has called: Tourism in this way would not exist in Austria if there were no functioning agriculture as a basis. Yes, social security has managed well, and it has accepted the challenges of time, but we are subject to a dramatic structural change in the peasantry: fewer and less contributors to a growing number of pensioners. It is also to be explained that the public sector has to pay and contribute to this social security scheme. One more word has been mentioned: the word "promoting". I can't hear that anymore! There's no support, there's no support, there's no cent for agriculture behind which there's no performance – at work, at investment or in environmental services and much, much more. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Of course there are promotions! ... Investment promotions...!]] This discussion seems to suggest to anyone working in the public service or in a public service, that he would not be a reward, not a salary, but a promotion. Please let us return to the subject matter! Let us dedicate ourselves to this discussion with more serious! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26769	Next speaker: Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26791	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Consumer protection, we have already discussed this many times today, has its fixed place in the budget, and that is important so; of which we are – I assume – all aware, if it is simply about information for everyday use – starting with the use of drive cost billing via guarantees for exchange up to insurance questions, electricity questions et cetera – to be received cheaply or free of charge. Especially for those people in our society who are financially weaker, this is often of existential importance. One area I would also like to mention today is new forms of financing, new business models that have been merged under the term crowdfunding. This form of financing is currently being applied very comprehensively, and nothing is really talking about it. To simplify it: Many people can invest in big ideas with relatively little capital. This is important for our country, but we need to be careful that the expectations of investors do not end with the fact that the income that is expected cannot be reached. Investments in these business models are risk capital, and the relevant information must also be based on the possibility that the capital may be lost. Honestly, I am in favour of implementing good ideas. It is important for our country, and it is very nice that many, many good ideas are present. But it is also important that the lenders are really aware of the risks. And that is exactly where consumer protection comes into the plan, because I think the right information can properly assess the risk. It is important to invest because it is important to promote good investments and ideas, but the knowledge of the form of funding must in all cases go beyond advertising information on these ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is just an example that shows us how important consumer protection is in many areas and that it must therefore be well positioned so that our consumers can continue to be right in the future. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, in this budget, that has shown itself, is a place for it, and I am very confident. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26830	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26851	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High Authority House! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! At the end of this sub-division some key data: In 2017, every second euro of taxation will be transferred to the social system. The labour market costs will increase by €500 million and total € 8.6 billion. In the pension system, grants will increase by €3 billion by 2020. But now on consumer protection: It is certainly not easy for consumers to keep the perspective clear, because the offers are becoming increasingly diverse, increasingly complex and therefore more unclear, which is why consumer protection is becoming increasingly important – with the expression protection already sound a bit preoccupied; much better from my point of view the word information: Information that enables consumers to make good decisions, because it is also true that it is not possible to regulate everything to the smallest detail and certainly does not have to be regulated – this would bring back an overwhelming bureaucracy. The Consumer Information Association has a very important role to play in this process, and more money will be available for consumer protection in 2017, specifically € 4.5 million – a plus of € 1.4 million compared to the previous year, which mainly serves the financial security of the Consumer Information Association. However, I still have to think that, in addition to the Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Commerce, ÖGB has left the Association for Consumer Information and, as the only one, the Chamber of Workers belongs to the association as a member. I hope that this will preserve the independence of the association. For the purpose of additional financing of the VKI, there is a desire to grant fines from proceedings before the Federal Competition Authority intended to the VKI. The management of sample processes is certainly a very important part of the VKI's work, but I do think that it should not lead to processes being used only to finance the VKI. For at least as important a point of view, I believe that conciliation bodies are because processes are not the only instrument of consumer protection; Conciliation bodies, as they are governed by the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act: in the energy sector, in the telecoms sector, in the postal sector and, above all, in the area of the Internet, more and more important. I am trying to focus more on these conciliation bodies in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26891	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e26912	Mr President. High house! I would like to return to the issue of farmers once again, because of course I see it similar in many areas: that there is a free entrepreneurship and that, as in the case of NEOS, one cannot save the shoemakers or the shoe shops, which get and lock competition, even all. Even the hatmaker cannot be saved if he is competitive and cannot survive. However, the farmers have a special position, which is because the farmers feed us and we are in the situation that the self-sufficiency rate in our country has been falling permanently since 2000 to this day. That is, we produce less and less food ourselves and import these foods. And that's exactly where we're at the point: In a crisis situation, of course, these imports are becoming increasingly difficult, and then it is about: Can we feed our state? Can we feed our citizens? That's exactly why the farmer has a special position, and that's why we can't just say, if the farmer is in distress: Okay, entrepreneurial risk, then there are fewer farmers; we import more! That is what is going on in the crisis, and then I want to see what happens when people are hungry because of such decisions. And that's possible! Many don't believe it, but that's actually possible! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At the moment we have the situation that a farmer feeds 66 people. That is, if one falls away, the other will have to feed even more people. Of course, this only works when productivity is high, and it's only high when everything works – from the spray delivery to the spare parts and the technical equipment to the seed and so on. And in the crisis – we all know – productivity is falling, and then we have a double problem. That is, you don't have to see that we bring together a quota of 70.80 percent, as we are up-to-date, but you should, now, in good times, produce a quota of 100. 120 percent on food safety. But the exact opposite is the case: We are starving farmers, and we are not giving them the opportunity to survive – and that is a huge problem. That is why it is absolutely justified to support farmers so that tomorrow they can still make sure that we have something to eat. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and ÖVP as well as representatives of FPÖ.]] Now I come to a second point, which is also very important, namely: It is always said that we cannot afford to pay decent pensions. We have a situation where a lot of people – a quarter of a million at the moment – live on or below the poverty line because they get too little pension. Hundreds of thousands of women – particularly affected – even live below the poverty line and actually have to think about how to fight their livelihood, whether they can afford heating costs, how they can obtain the food they need for daily life. That's reality! And then it says: We cannot afford to raise minimum pensions. I say: Of course we can afford that! I'm not talking about the € 2 billion that we're just spending on refugees without anyone asking if we want it and if it's okay. I'm not talking about that, because with this money you could actually get the pensions in gold; you could easily increase to the €1,200 as the liberals want. I'm talking about having enough money in the pension system, just: We misdistributed it. We are giving the money in areas where people who have not deserved it are benefiting from it. I just mention one example: the political pensions. There are still political pensions, which are no longer for us, but all those who are in retirement now; Faymann is also concerned with 80 percent of the last deal – we are talking about pensions up at an amount of € 10,000 per month. This alone costs almost a hundred million euros. And we're also talking about the officials who get 80 percent of the last deal without ever paying for it. And then it says: Yes, one cannot take that away, for that is the protection of trust, and they have set themselves up on it, and they have a right to it, for they want to keep their standard of living! – Well, ask the hundred thousand pensioners who live below the poverty line! This is not about keeping the standard of living and going on vacation five times a year. That's what it's all about: Can I buy and afford my food at all? – if the rents continue to rise and food prices also rise to the exorbitant and this will not be paid off. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the FPÖ]] That means: What we have is an unfair system, and the reason why you don't turn it off as supposed social democrats is simply that it's your people: The Blechas and what they all call – these are your people, and of course you won't take away anything from them. That's clear anyway. Especially those who have so little pension are the most faithful voters you have. Of course, you won't care about them, you choose them anyway, because they've always done that. These are faithful souls. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchgatterer.]] But that's why it won't be fairer! It won't be fairer. Just because you don't do anything for these people, although you could do something, and rather look at your own people. That's why: Let's create justice! Let's take these top pensions off! Let's break this crazy trust! Then: Those who can't afford their lives can't trust - with this government - that he's getting enough money. That's why: Let's raise the pensions so that life is possible, and finally we remove these top pensions from which you and your friends will benefit very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27002	There are no more words available to me. This concludes the discussions on these topics. [[12:35:07]] UG 24: Health and women
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27024	We come to the negotiation of sub-division 24: Health and women. First speaker is Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27048	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister Oberhauser, it's nice that you're with us today! The topic Health, of course, especially as regards the budget, is always a little problematic, because, by federalism, the Federal Budget provides a framework, but in fact it is especially in the health field, especially the countries through which this is then executed. A second major problem, which we always have in the health budget, is also the dictatorship of social security, which, of course, always presupposes a lot and thus, at the end of the day, also very much in the health field, especially with regard to further developments. It is also necessary to note very critically that we are obviously going under this yoke again and again and that it is not possible, for example, to unite all these social insurances, although we really only need one. Today, by Mr Loacker, and last time, we have heard a massive criticism of a single social security scheme. I believe that we could be rid of such problems by a long time, and then one would not have to resort to a profession that did nothing bad if we were finally able to put social security together. This too would be an important and important approach. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, from the Federal Policy it is already true that the biggest pieces in this budget, when you look at the budget, are the hospitals. That's good, right and important. But when you go back into the detail, you can see that there is something like digging struggles between individual federal states, I say now. It is still not possible for you as a Lower Austrian to come to a Vienna hospital, or vice versa. These are the problems we have in the health field, which are simply not understandable. In addition, for example, we are now facing the situation in Vienna that public hospitals are to be privatized. The Wiener Krankenanstaltenverband should not only be privatized now – for it is already outsourced – but it should also be smashed into two sub-areas. There's going to be the nursing staff and the medical staff gathered in a joint magistrates department, so that the brides are well equipped before they are then brought to the man – in this case probably to a pharmaceutical company. In which direction the health care will go, we can all calculate that, because one thing is already clear: Of course, private hospitals administrators are also quite different. It is no longer a social health system, but it is then strictly working according to market conditions – and we do not want it from FPÖ. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to express my concern and concern – and you have often told us that you will take care of our health system: Pass It also calls for public health care to remain public, that it is not privatized! I think it is one of the most essential areas – health is the highest good – which really must remain in public care, besides safety and other areas. I believe that the health sector in particular is: If we start privatising there, then we have a domino effect, and then we go in a direction that we no longer want, because then we really only have health care for a few who can afford it well. This is a way that we absolutely reject. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] So, of course, I would also like to say a word about the so-called PHCs – which are not now the special racer, which is not particularly popular either, at least not with doctors; in patients it is difficult to judge, there is only one thing – so far: With the PHCs, I always say, a nationalization should take place – this is probably also the plan behind it; but now I say something second to it: It is not even secured whether, if such a PHC is eventually sold to an investor, it is sold to a group, even since a privatisation takes place again. If this is excluded, for example, in Vienna we have a system in which private hospitals – because there is no longer KAV – face state institutions in the settled area. I think that's the wrong way. I think it is important to strengthen and expand the established area in particular in the health field. We see – and this has become clear especially in the course of this debate on the Article 15a agreement – the problem that there are fewer and fewer doctors, especially young doctors who want to accept a cash agreement. In one of the most populous districts of Vienna, in the 10th century. Wiener Gemeindebezirk, there is a dentist who does not find a successor for the cash settlement. Do you know what it means in an environment where not the wealthy people, but the simple people who live in the vast majority of the population, when there is no more cash office dentists there? Where are these people going? What are they supposed to do? That is why politics must be concerned, and there must finally be a rethinking in the area of social security, because if we no longer have a cashier's doctor who supplies people, then the system will become much, much more expensive, and then sometime the problems that have become potential. That's crazy. We finally need to rethink in social security: that it is cheaper now to provide people in the settled area well, instead of dragging this problem along and there are only a few that can afford to the doctor. I have to address Mr Spindelberger very briefly, because in the summer he stopped with a call: He wanted the patients who are in election doctors to get no more money from social insurance. Mrs Bundesminister, I was grateful to you for You just said that's a private opinion. It was precisely this statement, however, that was finally taken up by others, for example by the officials of the Vienna regional health fund, and incorporated into the Article-15a agreement. It is the completely wrong way to believe that something can be achieved with a debate of envy. Especially the patients who go to election doctors are not particularly rich. If you take the little you get from social security now, people can't afford the doctor at all. But if, parallel to this development, they do not find a cash doctor, then they will get a problem. That means that the system will become a lot, much more expensive. We finally have to say goodbye to always believing that any empires will be supported. No, that's not true, quite the contrary. I think we have to go back to a measure of social security and get back to them. This money – and it is the money of the insured, not of social security or of their officials, as it so gladly represents – has to be available to people. If Austria is growing – we all heard it, in a few years there will be 9 million inhabitants in Austria, 2 million in the Federal Capital – then of course it must be assumed that more people in this country will also need more doctors. However, if you go down the funding, you will necessarily get into the under-supply. We don't want to. We therefore ask you, Mrs Federal Minister – you have promised, and we also trust you: Watch out and please see that the established area is really being strengthened, for people is available and there are again virgins who, despite these social security schemes, take out a cash contract! It's not just the low pay by the checkouts that the doctors hold – that's what you have to say – it's also this overwhelming bureaucracy and it's the Mystery Shopper who then suspects the doctors. All these are many, many points that lead to fewer and fewer young doctors who want a cash contract.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27144	Before I give the floor to Mr Spindelberger, I must return to my colleague, Mr Loacker. Mr Loacker, you would have referred to individual farmers' representatives as people who enjoy the benefits of their position and who do not care about the interests of others – as it stands in the devil's mind; without sharing this contentual qualification with you now – I would not even have thought about whether I gave a call for order. The word Bonze, however, is already used in our language usage, i.e. as a verbal word. In the past, there have been repeated calls of order, so that I have to give you an order call for the term “farmer beanze”. [[Abg. Loacker: Earn, yes!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Who felt addressed?]] – It’s not the question whether someone feels addressed. [[Abg. Lopatka: Except for the Pirklhuber nobody!]] It was pronounced. The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27209	Before I get into the subject, I would like to congratulate you, dear Walter Schopf, on your round birthday today. [[General condolences.]] I would now like to refer to the comments made by my previous speaker. Colleague Belakovich-Jenewein, you said it right, federalism is actually also an anti-dote in the health sector. I said it a year ago, and now even the head of state in Styria has said a country, a law would go well. I wonder, Who prevents us from putting this into practice? They said that there are major challenges in the health sector. That is what I am giving you again, because it is a matter of not only maintaining our good health system but also further developing it. I therefore expressly welcome the agreements reached in the framework of the financial compensatory negotiations between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Social Security Council to invest in the next five years the legendary sum of €4.6 billion in addition to the health system. This should and will be used by 2020 to significantly improve medical care especially in rural areas. This has never been the case, in fact, that federal government, countries and social insurance are working together to increase medical care in addition to the previous medical practices, as we know them, through new offers. [[Abg. Karlsböck: You forgot the doctors!]] This direction-setting step is urgently needed, because you have said it correctly: No matter what federal we look at, it's always the same thing: The agricultural doctors are afraid of their successors. All over, every day we see that. In the Styria it is even so far that many doctors who practice in the country delay their retirement because they no longer have a follow-up. There are currently no more applications in the Styria for 9 out of 12 open planning sites that have been advertised. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No wonder...!]] The cases of cash registers, which can no longer be re-occupied, accumulate from month to month. These are alarm signs to which we urgently need to respond, and we must also take note, whether we want or not, that the worlds of life have changed dramatically by both the patients and the doctors. The working patients want longer opening hours, which is also legitimate, and the young doctors – I have talked to some of them, more than half of them are female – want a better reconciliation of work and family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Karlsböck]] This development should – I even believe – take into account new so-called primary supply units – I am not just talking about centres, in which doctors also work with other health professionals, ensuring better medical care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Karlsböck.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, that's exactly the problem!]] As can be done in practice, the example of Mariazell shows: Surgeons work with general physicians, with osteopaths, with child specialists, with gynecologists, but also with physiotherapists. I think such models are really worthy of imitation, because that means pure on-the-spot care. In Mariazell, this supply unit is open six days a week and every day 12 hours, and next year – which I promised – it will be open on seven days. That's what our patients need, and not blockers in the doctor's room who are massively opposed to everything: They were against ELGA, who were against the health reform, which was against e-medication, and now they are also against the intended new forms of team-oriented health care in the country, which not only brings enormous benefits to patients but also is forced by the doctors there. Don't always talk about nationalization! I know that the previous family doctor model – you have said it yourself – will no longer help if no one is applying for the open planning sites. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, if social security...!]] If that doesn't work, it's grossly negligent, which some doctor's chamber officials do, just like this morning at Ballhausplatz, that they're going through the country with threats of strike, trying to prevent better, more efficient health care in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27310	The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27331	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear listeners! Yes, I think we all feel that major changes are underway, and that is why we do not want to discuss the small sufferings and joys of the health system, but the great upheavals. I would also like to say that, at least once, it is strange that, made up of the federal government, countries and social security funds behind closed doors, an article 15a agreement is announced, which brings with it a great deal of change. There is then also the first implementing law to be adopted in the Health Committee next week, without consideration, without being able to discuss it publicly, in a very, very important matter. This is a non-democratic non-sensory of the special class. It really shouldn't be that way. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Loacker.]] What's going to happen? – These projects, which have already been described, are intended to reverse all health care, particularly the established area. For a long time, Austrian health policy has been working or the reform activities have always functioned according to logic: Health bureaucracy against the doctor's chamber. This may also have reasons, but what comes out of it is deeply unresponsible, I think, and it deeply ignores the need for reform. In this first round, the match is now obviously for the health bureaucracy. I believe that this is a Pyrrhus victory, because important social partnership criteria have been sacrificed at the altar of power policy. What's going to happen? – First point: The entire planning, supply management and finance In the future, there will be fewer health bureaucrats in the hands of a number of health bureaucrats. At the federal level, it is exactly 17 people who will decide on welfare and pain of health care in the future without any control and without any responsibility to the patients. The balance of interests has also been thrown overboard. In these bodies, the main focus is on the financing and performance providers. They have, when they make decisions, first of all the savings pen in front of their eyes. That is also their right, it is their task to make scarcity decisions, but precisely that is why there should be people sitting in these bodies, representing patient interests, representing quality interests and representing the interests of health professionals, because health professionals also need good working conditions in order to help people. It is therefore very important, from our point of view, that representatives of health professions also enter into these bodies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: With the aim of not having to negotiate with the doctors, all small-scale care units should now be overcome – so you can read it in the Article-15a agreement – and replaced by large supply units – networks, health centres, hospital hospitals should now be expanded again. It is a bit unclear, but I believe that the electoral system is also moving. €200 million provide social security and the countries together to expand these supply centres. But who guarantees us, please, that these €200 million do not go into start-up financing for investors and capital companies? If that really comes, very, very good control mechanisms would have to prevent insurance funds, federal funds, public funds from flowing into the returns of investors. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Franz.]] I think we can all imagine: The sufferers of such development will be the patients who actually have a right, without long waiting times, without being well, fast and comprehensively provided without self-payments. What's going to happen? – In future, they will face even more restrictions and rationalizations of the services offered. The sufferers will also be the people in health professions who really make every day effort and give everything to help sick people. People in health professions also have a right to appreciation and hearing, as well as a right to participation. I think that the culture of appreciation necessary to really live a health partnership in order to create a good health care together has not been given in Austria for a very long time. So I really hope that there will be post-negotiations before the decision is taken, otherwise we may soon have to say like King Pyrrhus after the victory of the Romans: “Such a victory, and we are lost!”
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27411	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27432	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to join with Mr Mückstein: It is also important in health care to say appreciation and thanks to all those who produce these great results – doctors, sisters, psychotherapists, psychologists et cetera. I want to calm you all down. German Health Minister Seehofer once said: After the reform is before the reform. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Not again!]] If we are always talking about reform rhetoric: An area in which about 11 per cent of gross domestic product goes into and where life decisions are concerned will always be a discussion area. I just hope that reforms are not reform rhetoric, because of course, reforms must somehow create the real life check. I hear again and again that our health care system is not efficient. I have to say, honestly, I've been working on this. Of course, as a house doctor and always in health care, I am blue-eyeed. At the cost we are always around 8th place in the Western world, in terms of performance, I trust to say this, we are commuting between second and fourth place. If OECD data is carefully scrambled, it is clear that we are at the front of knee prostheses, that cataract operations are clearly in the front, hip prostheses are clearly in the front, transplants are clearly at the front, performance, access to cancer drugs, access to cancer therapies, Mamma-ca, Colon-Ca, as well as recordings at COPD are clear. We are often in front of Germany and Switzerland. But if a study is always quoted that, on average, 59 good years are experienced in Austria and we are under OECD snow, then I would like to get the most out of my mind, because such nonsense can only be cried – or I don't know what I have to do as a doctor – to take note of. I'm trying to figure it out. This OECD study is based on self-assessment. Greeks, Bulgarians, all in front of us, San Marino, Romania, all have said: Actually, we're not that bad. Germany, Switzerland, Sweden and Austria are in the EU section. That's the great study that makes Austria inefficient? – Anyone who cites such a thing means either evil or descending, or he does not know himself, because you have to be able to read studies as well. I personally also think that you should talk more to each other in health than talk to each other. I also think that the whole thing is very narrow now. That's got different reasons. I'm also not a blocker of centers and new things, I was even for the center in Mariahilfe, but it's the conditions when 400 000 people, plus one – that is, cycling – are driving on the Mariahilfer road, of course different from the country. I say that the lack of a home physician behind it will not eliminate us with centres. Where's Spindelberger? – Unfortunately, he's gone again. Well, then I have to tell him privately. Firstly, we need better training in hospital and second, equal pay. If a family doctor gets up to € 110 000 less or a family doctor is paid 40 percent less in hospital – and you just need to look at the job vacancies – a 25-year-old who has the choice today would have to be crazy if he chose the family doctor's profession, because there is no teaching practice, Mystery Shopping and all these bureaucrats that are really annoying. This trias – no training, poor pay plus bureaucracy – is not the question of the centres, which leads to the lack of a home physician. I come to the end of my speech: I believe that despite all the ques tions, despite all that is bad, we are talking about a system that is world class, having a high level, and I thank once again all the professional groups that have brought it so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27474	Next, Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27495	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The doctor's chamber obviously had no desire to overshadow us with many numbers, Dr. Rasinger. Of course, the budget itself does not give much. It has already been said that the Minister is politically largely a queen without a country and must come to her destination through political negotiation with the cash registers, countries and all other players. Madam Minister, unfortunately, They were not in the process when we saw some cabaret scenes in the Committee on Budgets, when it came to achieving long-term impact targets and setting spending limits which we have already below us. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to add the following to the expenditure ceilings: During the financial settlement negotiations – Mr Mückstein has already mentioned it – the countries have called for 500 million extra. Mr Schickhofer was madly leaning far out of the window. Somehow, then, protest calls have been muted, and in a skillful way, these 500 million have then entered the Article 15a agreement on the health of the target, as Article 17 provides for the upper limits of expenditure for the countries. However, for 2016 to 2017, it is not based on the actual amounts consumed by the countries, but on the old expenditure ceiling of €500 million, which continues to be charged. In this way, these €500 million, which may grow by 3.4 percent per year in the future, have been added to the countries. So there's enough money coming in. The budget also includes the 80 million as a political gift from the government under the title of free gears. I would like to face these 80 million for health care free gears again the 180 million for the Pensionist-Hunderter. What do I achieve with the casting canner and what do I achieve with a toothband? But please, everyone can make their own judgment. The budget also provides targets for our consumption of fruit and sugar, but actual prevention topics such as sports and movement are not included. It is also not really something as far as the number of insurance companies whose differences we have often criticized is concerned. The farm insurance system, already quoted today, is based on a net asset of €306 million, the civil service insurance amounting to €809 million, while the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse must have a minus net income of €37.5 million. In the Committee it was exciting to hear that payments of €2.2 billion from the Federal Government to the social security funds and the health care institutions of the countries and municipalities are planned. I wanted to know how many of these 2.2 billion are going to the health care institutions of the countries and communities on which the federal government has no influence and where it has no access and no control options. They couldn't answer that from the officials of the Ministry of Health. They told me I had to ask the Ministry of Finance. All right, that's it. I'll do it too. But I think it's impressive that you don't know where they're going with such large amounts. 2.2 billion, as measured by the health budget, are not small. It is often warned that we privatize the health system, and a little treat for it has delivered the Vienna city government. My colleagues in the Vienna Landtag asked: What about the health care institution of the municipality of Vienna? What are the numbers? How does that develop? The answer was: Private economic activities of such a legal entity are not subject to the right of interconnection. – The health care institution of the municipality of Vienna is obviously private-sector activity. So private health can't be so bad if the SPÖ Vienna thinks it's great. I would also like to add the following: I asked why there is no money to take up school doctors and the extensive school doctors in ELGA, since all children are being examined by them. It detects attitudes, visual defects, hearing errors and other things, and it is not documented in ELGA. The answer to my question was to prevent abuse. – So the school doctors enjoy a high degree of confidence in our health ministry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27549	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27571	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Little change of subject, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on the subject of women's budget. But before I talk about the women's budget, I would like to appreciate the work of the Minister for Women and the Ministry and to thank myself very, very much. Although the women's minister is only € 10,150 million available, the quality of the work done by the section, but also by thousands of women working for women and women in that country, is to be appreciated. These are women who work in more than 100 girls' and women's advisory facilities. These are hundreds of people who do their work every day in violence centres, intervention agencies and advisory bodies, and are there for women who urgently need help and advice of all kinds. Since we are two days before the start of the “16 Days Against Violence” campaign, I would like to say: Every fifth woman is once affected by violence in her relationship life, in Europe it is every third woman. Therefore, it is urgently necessary not only to appreciate the work – a great thank you – but also to talk about the budget. It is more than €5 million that goes towards women's promotion. More than €4 million are the legal obligations that we share together with the Minister of the Interior for the Protection of Violence, who must also be served by the laws on the protection of violence. Men like women and women like men need first advice to get help for further assistance. This sum accounts for over 90 percent of this €10 million, which represents a relatively small budget compared to the total budget of €77 billion. I can only appeal to you all: We are still taking advantage of these hours to help them, together with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health and Women, to support them and to turn a little on the screw and increase these €10 million! The effectiveness objectives of the Ministry of Women are also clearly defined. It is about the economic equality of women, and this is not only the task of the Ministry of Women, which requires the Minister's coordination activity in all other departments. A liaison office in the Ministry of Women is being established in all other areas, because many are responsible for it. It is important to note that of these €10 million, which remain for the work that the Minister of Women has in the form of these advisory bodies, financial grants and also in the form of legal commitments, there is little left for awareness campaigns and for applications for the work of the Ministry of Women. You know, the women's helpline 0800 222 555 is very important just in days like this again. It is available 365 days a year 24 hours, day and night, in several languages for free. It is incredibly important to ensure that these funds are available at the moment and in the future, and that they can also be increased in the women's budget. Finally, I should like to thank you very much for the great work and hope that we will still be moving something for women in this country by tomorrow evening at the final votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27613	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27634	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Dear High House! I would like to come back to the health issue. Before I address some concerns, I would like to express my warmest thanks to the excellent doctors and health care professionals we have in Austria. So many times ahead. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Nevertheless, there are concerns that something might change. In particular, when looking at the budget for the Article-15a agreement on primary care centres, it is noted that there is a need for a fundamental change in the health system that we do not want to contribute. It has already been mentioned: It is about the very loved, very well-tested family doctor, who has always been a very competent contact for the patients. You know there's going to be a wave of retirement. There will be about 50 percent of the doctor's pension, and that will be in the next few years. By 2030, even three-quarters of all domestic doctors will have reached retirement age, and unfortunately, there has been no idea of providing for the corresponding young people. This has been recognized, and now we are trying to counter it with the primary supply centres. I think that this is a wrong correction, even if of course some positive aspects are to be mentioned. Of course, the opening hours will be extended and the primary supply centres will be available six or seven days a week. But what's going on with me is the focus on man himself. Especially when it comes to health, a lot of trust is needed for the treating doctor. You know each other, the doctor knows the medical history. In these primary care centres, each time another doctor is present, and just the treatment of a disease has a lot to do with trust. I think that this repair, especially in rural areas, could not be optimal. You also keep considering the overall medical care! We think you can go back a little with these centres. Our concern is that this correction could go in the wrong direction. In rural areas in particular, these centres are then concerned that there will be fewer and fewer domestic doctors in the immediate vicinity. That means you'd be forced to go to these centres. Another drop in advertising is that these centres, which are included in this budget, are not represented by the Chamber of Physicians, but by the Chamber of Commerce. This could, of course, be a further step against the domestic doctors. So much on this subject. So I'd like a little more repair with regard to this medical pension wave that comes upon us. Another criticism in the budget is that, in our opinion, prevention has been taken a little too little into consideration, namely the precautionary principle. Health is a very, very valuable asset, and we believe it would be a very, very important task. There is still a lot of work to be done in this respect, which has simply been far too little thought in the budget. Prevention – we know – is always much cheaper than repair, especially when it comes to health care. We spoke briefly about sugar: In 2016 it should be 35 kg per person, in 2020 only more than 34 kg. However, we are not talking about the sugar cube we are giving ourselves into the coffee, but about the hidden sugar in which we as a consumer have no insight at all. If I take this amount, then it's 95 grams and 93 grams a day. For example, WHO does not recommend more than six to twelve teaspoons of sugar per day. That would be about 25 to 50 grams, so the directive is far below. Of course, it is not so much for children. Prevention is far too short in the budget. You know exactly: The dose makes up the poison, and the sum of the cocktail is what is ultimately harmful. There are a lot of countries that are already acting exemplaryly against this, but unfortunately this is still a bit in the backlog. I'm talking about BBA, glycosate, saturated mineral oils in food et cetera. I believe that prevention in health is a very important point, not only for every individual, to do something preventive for his health, but also a really important cost-saving point in the budget. I would have liked a little more focus on this in the budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27702	Mrs Oberhauser has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27723	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Actually, we are here today to discuss a 1.063-billion budget in my sub-division. The only one who tried to get to the budget was Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, who in a very clear way explained the women's budget, which contains around €10 million in the women's budget, namely how they are divided and what they are used for. The rest of the discussion has turned around a very different part, which is currently being discussed very hot, namely health policy and health care discussions, the issue of financial compensation and the current Article-15a agreement, which contains many changes in health care. I will try to stick to today's theme to present at least a few key points of my budget and then try to dissuade this very apocalyptic image, which was drawn by most, which will happen when the financial compensation and the Article 15a agreement are signed. A few years ago, when I argued very vehemently for social security, I said: It's good if we believe our own propaganda. As a person who tries to deal with facts very honestly – as I think everyone knows – at that time I was very upset because I think it is important, especially in the health sector, to present what the real facts are, and not, as is currently happening in part from the doctor's chamber, to sit up his own propaganda and to double it. In this sense, both parts are recommended – and both parts, as you can see from the remarks, are very skeptical about writing into the main book, taking back in propaganda and populism, and ensuring that patients in Austria are well cared for. To do this, they do not need to put their light under the Scheme, nor do they need to offer a show with one or other exaggeration, exaggerated demand and an overlaid black picture, the patients and the many active people in health professions that you have discussed, or more uncertain. Instead, we should stick to the facts. I will try to present with facts in a very clear and honest way for me what should happen if it comes as we imagine it to be. Only briefly to the budget: It is 1.063 billion € in the budget, and that is 26.5 million more compared to 2016. Why is that so? – It is the first time that the female budget of 10.1 million really falls entirely in my area, and this increases my budget by a certain amount, namely by 6.5 million. We have reduced health insurance in the demand-oriented minimum guarantee, for which unfortunately an Austrian-wide solution failed, with €14.5 million plus. It is the hospital financing priced at €4 million plus. The cash-flow structure fund with €10 million is back in place, which was not taught before and was only re-donated in 2016. From this, targeted funds are distributed to health insurance if they achieve certain objectives. And the dental health fund, one of which is loved, namely, by the patients and families who benefit from it, from the other than excessive, is reduced by 80 million. We believe that we have managed to finance a free gear for those families that could not have afforded it. The largest broking is the share of hospital financing, which is variable with 635 million, as this, as you know, is distributed according to tax revenue in the Republic. In the health budget there are priorities: It will be ELGA in the next budget. ELGA continues to be a lecturer of €10 million and will continue to be financed for the years 2017 to 2020 by a total of €41 million through target taxation, i.e. through federal government, countries and social security. Furthermore, children's vaccinations are included in the budget – a service offered in Austria. Children's vaccines are paid to a large extent by public authorities in a two-thirds financing, thus reaching a large number of children and young people with 1.171 million single doses. However, we have undertaken to increase the degree of vaccination even further. Therefore, this is important – you know – because those who are vaccinated protect those who are not vaccinated and the higher the degree of vaccination, the greater the likelihood of eradicating disease. We succeeded in eliminating smallpox, polio by a very high vaccination. Masern is the next target. We know about the great suffering of the children who suffer from measles, and in pregnant women there can be a lot of damage. The next goal is therefore to significantly increase the degree of vaccination even there. One point that we have made is, Mrs. Von Weigerstorfer, whether prevention is too short, although financially only a small percentage, but will develop a large surface effect: “early help” is the project with which we start very, very early, before children are born: in pregnancy, at a time when one can filter out cases where there may be difficulties. In this area, there is then a large care network that can be used by people. We are trying to prevent late consequences and, together with the countries and communities, to establish a comprehensive network. This is only very short, but it is really very good and, I believe, one of the projects on show, where you can put a lot of things on your feet in cooperation with little money from the health resort. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The women's budget has already presented Gabi Heinisch-Hosek in principle. Over 90 percent of the budget I have at my disposal goes to the promotion of women's and girls' advisory facilities and of violence prevention facilities: A network of care, which is particularly popular on holidays, is very closely drawn over Austria. We all know that the more hectic time – as in the direction of Advent time – violence in the family increases, that many women leave their own household, that children are beaten. Today, if you have read the headline that too few people feel a wax as violence against children, then we know that violence centres and advisory centres will still be calling for their place for a very long time and that we will also need long-term financial grants. We co-finance women's houses, which, I believe, are used differently throughout Austria in different ways of financing, but in all cases are not under-burdened, but mostly over-burdened. I think this money is really right and well used. It has already been expressed thanks to the various areas. The money that you, which citizens invest in both health and equality, equality, women's health, violence and women's and girls' advice, do not do anything. The money can only do something if the people to whom this money is going deal responsibly with it and also through actions, through their daily work, which is useful for the benefit of the Austrians, both in the advisory offices, in the women's homes, as well as in hospitals, medical practices, wherever there is great empathy and great joy. I can only join this thanks. I think we all know how difficult it is in times of declining resources, with much commitment, with much enthusiasm to try to maintain the services for people. In this sense, I hope that this money, which has been saved in my budget chapter, will continue to be used well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me now try to get ahead of the discussion of the next few weeks and the next meetings – also in the Health Committee we will discuss PHC and these things – and try to discourage the fears of an apocalypse. Erwin Rasinger quoted OECD numbers today, today the OECD report has been published. It supports us in the issues of efficient planning, efficient control, relocation from the stationary area and strengthening primary care exactly to what federal government, countries and social security funds have done in this Article-15a agreement. If you read newspaper reports, you will notice that young colleagues no longer want to become a house doctor. [[Abg. Rasinger: That's not true!]] These are multifactorial reasons. Erwin Rasinger has said all the time, both here as a speaker and on the bank: It's the bad payment. – It is very multifactorial! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Not just bureaucracy!]] Let's start with our studies. We have a study entry phase in which you only create the entrance if you take a lot of money into your hands, make preparation courses – some countries promote this – so as to be included in the elite so as to be able to study medicine. [[Abg. Karlsböck: Let's say it for ten years! Right!]] That is, the study site restriction has brought that those who study, of course, look at them that they can continue their studies as high as possible in research, teaching, and that many think themselves, the house doctor, that is not what I want. That is, maybe we should consider how elitist we are studying. I can only join the discussion, which, I believe, has also been lit by Markus Müller, the rector of the University of Vienna Medical University in the last few days, and confirm this opinion: Private universities are not the answer! Let's move on to training! [[Abg. Mückstein:... Specialists!]] It is true that there are different payments between general doctors and specialists in the final development. In principle – I remember from my time – most of my colleagues are trying to become a specialist, and at least they want to become a house doctor. So what remains of politics? – Trying to listen to the young colleagues and ask: What do you want? There is a group of incoming general physicians who say: We want good conditions, we don't want to work alone, we want to network, we want to work with other health professionals and we want to try to work at the highest possible quality, but we don't want to become the transferors of the future, according to the motto: If you come to me, I have to send you on, because – we are at the next point – some social security benefits for the established area are not honoured to the general physician. I totally understand that the general physician says: If I don't get it paid, I won't do it, or I'll ask the patient to pay for it. What is not going to happen is – and I believe this is the question – the complete privatisation of health care, neither in the city of Vienna nor in the Federation on the Article 15a agreement. I think you are all fit enough in the health care system of Austria to know that almost every federal state is running the operation of hospitals, not within the framework of the municipal or state budget, but within the framework of societies. Nowhere is the private investor a pharmaceutical company. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, but it is planned!]] – Nowhere, nowhere has that happened, what is now being tried to put Vienna under control. The discussions are in progress. I believe that there is today a broadcast on the subject of organization, for which a decision will be made next year. The staff representatives on site, I think, are sufficiently alerted, are also on their feet and are also trying to act for the benefit of the patients and for the benefit of the staff. This claim that all hospitals in the city of Vienna become private hospitals and at the same time private investors take over individual medical practices, unite them and then make the private network is simply completely overlaid and wrong. It is not in the interest of the federal government, the Länder or the social security companies, private corporations, to open door and door. [[Abg. Karlsböck: But it is possible! But it happens then!]] – These negotiations are still under way. We now have ambulatories, I say it again, for example the PSD, the psychosocial services in Vienna: That would be such a company that would jump on the companies worldwide and try to take over it. [[Abg. Mückstein: In Germany it happened!]] The development diagnostic centres of the city of Vienna, where children are treated with development residues: You think a pharmaceutical company or anyone else would put great emphasis on making this profit-oriented? – That is simply not the case! [[Abg. Karlsböck: What happens then?]] We want health care in Austria to continue with domestic doctors, the specialists and the other health professionals, and this in a graduated form from primary care on site to the hospitals. Let us continue to discuss, and I ask all sides to stick to the facts and the truth in the presentation of these things! They insure patients, doctors and doctors in such a way that they are afraid of becoming ill – or afraid if they are already – and the others do not want to continue in this profession because they take what is being spread here for bearded coin. If we want to continue to provide Austria well, we will discuss the facts on the ground: hard, but fair!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27886	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27908	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I think there is still a lot of communication to be done, but not only between the federal government, countries and social security funds, but also among doctors who have to do so. One thing – and I say this now as a Member of Parliament who comes from the rural area – is clear: Centres will not be able to replace domestic doctors! In order to create incentives – you have also said it, Mrs Bundesminister – we need better training, better pay and, of course, less bureaucracy for domestic doctors. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Rasinger.]] I know this from my family doctor: It's almost impossible what's happening there. There's something built up, we haven't reduced, but we've always given it up. This can be done by a doctor who is not actually a doctor. In addition, I need to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, who are here in the room, and not to say to you, Mrs Federal Minister, that a house doctor also has many other tasks: He works as an emergency doctor, he has to drive directly to patients if, for example, parents call early that the child is ill. Not only older people, but also families with children will not say: I've got a car and I'm going to the nearest center and I'm a number there. With us, the citizens want to be treated as patients – Mrs Sowieso, Mr Sowieso – and not as the number 126 in a centre. - That's all I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen! For the entire health budget, one must also say that Mrs Oberhauser is not easy, because of course the billions who come to the distribution are already somewhere else, but yet I can only congratulate you for being really successful in focusing on these priorities – which she has also mentioned. I have missed a little – perhaps I have also overlooked – the numbers for the gender-medical training of doctors or their effectiveness. We need this gender medicine, we need greater progress in order to achieve better treatment success, that is an absolute necessity. The same is true of breast cancer prevention: Two years ago we introduced the new breast cancer screening with the relatively expensive, as I mean, invitation measure. For the first time, and this is also due to you, there is this nationwide screening. The figures available to us clearly show that all women in the age group from 45 to 70 were actively invited to participate in this screening. But now comes the terrifying number that really makes speechless: It was only 42 percent of the women who accepted it. You have to think about what happened. In addition, women under 45 and over 70 were not invited at all. This is, for me, an absolute discrimination against women in general. That is to say, back to the start, just as the President of the Austrian Cancer Aid has said. In October of this year he said in an interview: Let's see again that women can be referred to their family doctor, to their gynecologist, or to her gynecologist. This means that the transfer comes from there and that all women, whatever ages, have the right to make these investigations. A short while ago, on the subject of women's budget. Yes, there is a slight increase in this area, but I am also with the colleague Heinisch-Hosek: Perhaps it will succeed, even if it is not tomorrow in the evening, but in the spring it will increase – I trust in our women's minister – because we need this budget. We have more effort to make. This must also be seen in terms of the refugee crisis. Of course, with the overcrowded advisory bodies and women's homes, we have an additional need that can be achieved. It is not just about brochures and exhibits that can be created, but we simply need an even better care for those women who are in need. When we start 25 years old For 16 days at all corners and ends of the Republic have events against violence against women and children, then one can only say: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women and children has not occurred since the refugee crisis, which has existed in our country before and which continues to exist. I can't believe we're not getting this under control. I mean, pretty slowly we need a man program to explain to them how far you can go and how far you can't go. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, probably!]] We should also consider this, because it is inconceivable that this is still a cavalier offence in some areas or circles. It is a criminal act that has lost nothing in our society, and we have everything to do to stop violence. Now talk to any refugees, that's too easy! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] A small step has been taken in recent years, namely: We have achieved that women have the courage to talk about their situation and that they have the courage to accept help. However, we must also have the courage to impose much harder penalties on such offences. That's something that might deter us. We need it. In a civil society as we do in Austria, violence against women and children has no place. I very much hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that you will continue to be there – I know that this will be so. I wish you all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27958	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Karlsböck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e27980	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to add to what Mrs Minister said: fair, without propaganda. I would like to briefly explain things from my point of view, because we are turning around here again and again in the circle. At the centre of the discussion – and I think this will be forgotten – is the doctor and especially the patient. That's why everything is actually turning. The doctor is the one who has the last decision who has the expertise that, as I said, builds a relationship with the patient. To this universe everything else takes place, all health professions, all auxiliary staff, all that works in this system. We can imagine this as the Hierarchy pyramid, where the doctor is at the very top of the system and at the very bottom of the system we are politicians, health economists, social insurers and the like. - That's the one point. The second point is: It will be forgotten that the medical profession is a professional profession, which is a very important component. “Free profession” means that when I’m done with my studies and have the legitimacy, I’m going to start building up a relationship, a contractual relationship, as always, with a patient. I can do that wherever I want. All that has been built on it in the last century is simply and simply something we call civilisational achievement, which simplifies and facilitates the system, but in reality it is not necessary. This will be forgotten in the discussion. The situation today is as follows: The budget, the so-called cost-absorbing path, is nothing but an automatism towards reduction. We have already criticized this at the time, unfortunately we have been strengthened and reaffirmed in it; today we note already that the cover of costs leads to power reduction, to cover, as we see, for example, in radiology, and to quotas. - That's one. Now the discussion – which you, Mrs Minister, have mentioned – is about the Article 15a agreement, the PHCs that are to be set up, which is nothing more than simply and simply a system in which we live, a system that is great to go down, restructure and re-establish. All of this is not necessary, because today, if one has recognized these weaknesses, we can simply have doctors hired. In addition, there are no approaches to surveys, including demand in the Committee, which would cost. No, you're reforming the whole system from behind! Of course, it's in the room now, because all this is going to be too much, that you say behind your hand that you want to dispossess the doctors as a political goal – or say Mr Bachinger quite openly. I never understood what that means: the doctors removed. In fact, I refer to it, on the one hand, the ignitions – these are those who have been trying ideologically for years and decades to dispossess the doctors, whatever that may be called – that now see their time coming, and on the other hand, unfortunately, there are political companions there, such as the head of state of Mödlhammer, but also the head of the main association of social insurance companies Rabmer-Koller. In the room are simply and simply a strike of the medical profession and the termination of the overall contract, which means nothing else, dear patients, than that you can no longer go to the doctor of your choice, that you must pay for waiting times to be longer that an blatant deterioration in the health system will take place! The Federal Government is responsible for creating new structures. That is why I say – and we will discuss it next week in the Committee – that: Hands away from these things! We liberals still offer you the hand, not least because we have great expertise. We say: The doctors are excellent! They are motivated and powerful, their credo is life-long learning, you just have to let them work in peace. However, to ensure our health system in all its aspects in the future, I would like to conclude by saying: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28048	Mr deputies, you forgot something about reading in the first part. Please start with 1) again.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28068	1) Real involvement in the design of Austrian health care, especially in job planning – instead of pro forma’s right to comment, 2) strengthening the provision of services in the established area by creating new cash offices; 3) Attraction of the medical work environment in the hospital and in the cash register system, 4) No evasion of employee protection laws for employed doctors, (5) No automatic loss of contracts with special health insurance companies in the event of the deposit of a local health insurance contract, 6) Complete financing of teaching practices; 7) Fixing technical deficiencies and financing the practical effort for ELGA including e-medication, 8) Priority should be given to medical practice or group medical practices prior to the provision of medical services by hospitals or by cash collection facilities; 9) Protection of the family doctor as a primary provider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28127	The present motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28315	Mr Hechtl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28336	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! It is a bit difficult to speak according to the remarks made by Mr Karlsböck, because I believe that he did not understand correctly the statements made by our Minister of Health, who meant that health care is far too important for us to be agitated. The opposite is what Mr Karlsböck is doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would, however, like to add to the comments made by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein. She said something quite right for me: that health care should be in the public sector! The Federal Minister has also found clear words to ensure that this will be the case. We know that the health care system has many people involved: whether it is the home doctors, whether that is the specialist, whether it is the hospitals, whether they are in the public sector or in the private sector, whether it is the social insurance companies, whether it is the health care staff or also the policy, if there is also some difficulty in federalism. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If I have correctly followed Mr Rasinger's statement when he mentioned the OECD's data, then we have 11% of the spending GDP on health care, but with regard to services and quality in third and fourth place, this shows how good Austrian health care is and how good health care in Austria is. We can be proud of that. If we take a look at America and look at the statements in the presidential election campaign, we can see that, I say, the rich America with the large population wants to make a cut in health insurance, which will almost hit the poorest and the poor and, of course, restrictions on health care, in health care. Now I would also like to make a few points on the budget. In the division 24, health, we can find that we make 1.1 billion € to go there. This is a plus of € 21.7 million and, as a percentage, of 2.1 percent compared to the 2016 Federal Estimate. The Federal Minister has already mentioned it: A significant part of this total budget is spent on the financing of hospitals at €635.4 million. This is an essential point, and there is also an increase. For me, too, it is very positive that the dental health fund is being increased. We know exactly what the issues of the introduction of this health fund have been. We have always expressed our opinion – and still represent them today – that the origin, the social position of the children should not be able to read from the teeth. We can now say that 20 million € have been set up since 2015 and now 80 million €, and we will also be able to deliver on this promise made by the Minister of Health Alois Stöger at the time. – Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In brief: We can see that this budget can achieve the five health impact targets and we can be very proud of our health system. Our health system – the health itself is the most important good of people – provides a health care that everyone can use, regardless of what income you have. Mrs. Federal Minister! For me, they are a guarantee that we have high quality health care, a practical health care, and that personality in health policy in Austria, which takes care of this health system and also ensures that adequate financial resources are available for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28398	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28419	Mr National Council President! Minister! Of course, I am particularly pleased that our Federal Minister is also present. To the women's budget: We have already said that it is really ridiculous that we have a budget of € 10.15 million for the Ministry of Women. That's the smallest, the smallest budget and that's not even 0.01 percent of the total budget. The total budget is €77.4 billion, so the dimension is an insanity. If you calculate it per head, that means a funding volume of €2.3 per head for every woman living in Austria, i.e. per woman. In view of the construction sites we have in the field of equality policy, one has to ask one question: How do we plan to eliminate differences in pay between men and women? Or: How do all the women's advisory bodies, women's organisations that are committed to women's and children's rights want to fight violence effectively? Or: How do we simply want to strengthen the men's advisory bodies, which are also very important in order to do something for the prevention of violence? Apart from that, there are also these equality goals in many other departments. The question is: How are these projects financed? – The costs are very opaque, so you don't know how much money flows there. Everyone talks about the compatibility of work and family, but there are no concrete measures to do so. Mr Schittenhelm referred to the prevention of violence earlier. There is also the GREVIO-shadow report, where the experts suggest the following: If Austria wants to do something effectively for violence prevention, we must have a budget of € 219 million. I mean, that sounds like a dream, because the total women's budget is just €10.19 million. The fact is that the Ministry of Women is really a reliable partner for these women's advisory services. The women's advisory services are trying to get over the rounds somehow, through project promotions, through workshop offers and through cross-sectional funding, but that can't be the point of the whole thing! I mean, here we are talking about more than half of the Austrian population, about the women who are simply not properly taken into account in the budget, who are not provided with anything that they can effectively do something at this level. Apart from that – because many always argue that it is a cross-sectional matter – there is also zero support in terms of violence prevention. Many ministries, for example the Ministry of Justice, are likely to fall under the Ministry of Economic Affairs. They could also do something to help, but so far it just wasn't the case. Now we are simply facing the conclusion that the bill does not cover more than half of the population, so for women, so to speak. It's just double-moral! So how do you want to proceed in the future? – Then you should not make all of these social issues such as work and family compatibility, such as pay shears, such as women as executives or women's security of life, because there is simply no money for them. What is it, if not double morals?, I wonder. So either you lock up to the Women's Ministry, and we'll say, Okay, it's much more honest and more open access, if you say it simply isn't budgeted or done anything on the level!, or you're investing in some kind of beauty, so that these social issues aren't brought to the tapet again and again. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister of Women. Although she has tried at this level, I also firmly believe that she will succeed in raising the women's budget, there must also be more effort from the ÖVP corner. It will not go if only one side has this desire and the other side, as it were, somehow stands with hope and thinks it will work anyway. On a voluntary basis, up to now, nothing has been done! Success consists of three letters, I always say, from t, u, n: do! So, dear reigns from the ÖVP corner, you have to look: If you want to be successful on this level, you really have to do something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28479	Mrs Diesner-Wais is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28501	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The 2017 estimate provides 1.1 billion for health and women, which is 2.1 percent more than last year. This is due to the higher health insurance in the minimum insurance. The budget health and women is only a fraction of the total budget with about € 1 billion, as the total amount of social security and public health expenditure is €36.2 billion in the health sector. Now to some of the points I would like to address: We have already heard that the Federal Government, countries and social security schemes have agreed during the financial compensatory negotiations that by 2020 the primary supply will amount to €200 million, especially in the settled area. I think this is particularly good, because we need a solution, a quick solution to the future, because we are facing the growing problem that the medical and medical services are often no longer available. Of course, this problem is increasing even more, the further it goes from the centres into the country. That is why we need measures to reduce bureaucracy, to improve training, and we need appropriate conditions for agricultural doctors to return to the country. I say that on the one hand we have a distribution problem from the rural centres, but we also have a major demographic problem, because, as we know, it will be almost a third in 2020 and a quarter of the general physicians over 65 years old in 2030. I say, for ideological reasons, that it is now only on centers that the wrong path is, but centres can be part of an entire solution, but there must not be a thinning of supply. I think it is very important to also create networks between the doctors, also between the therapists and nurses, and also to allow doctors to employ doctors. I say we need a family doctor nearby who knows, so to speak, the personal circumstances and the disease history of our patients. That's something very important. Also very important to me is the clear commitment to the electoral system. I think it's good that it's now once again anchored that you can visit an election doctor and get a refund as a patient. If we were to abolish the electoral system, we would have a big problem, because we could not ensure security of supply, because we do not have so many doctors in the cash register. The waiting lists – as with me in the Waldviertel – are sometimes very long with the individual doctor. If we now see this compared with Austria to Germany, it must be noted that we have only about half of what is available to the German doctors. Finally, I would like to say that we have a good health system, a good thing in the global comparison, but we always have to look for it and, of course, improve it. At this point I would really like to thank all those who care for it, speak at the front the doctors and Doctors, nurses, nurses, medical and technical services, midwives and all those who do great services here. – Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28546	Mrs Gamon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28567	Mr President. Dear Minister of Women! The budget we have in the area of women is really not particularly high. I think, of course, we can talk about how more resources would be useful here. But I would like to focus on how we spend the money in the area of women's budget. Equality policy is a cross-sectional matter. That sounds totally banal now, but it is really so, because the Ministry of Women is largely unable to bring itself directly into active equality policy. This is often labour market policy, tax policy, family policy. But the Ministry of Women has a coordination function. We believe that every minister/minister should see himself as a responsible minister of gender justice in his/her area, if we really want to do a few meters here. One of my most important and most important concerns in the area of gender equality is equality in the labour market and it is to give women the opportunity to have their own income, which is also enough for life. One's own income means independence and freedom. That is why I would like to focus on what the Ministry of Women is doing and what budget resources are used to achieve this equality in the labour market. We believe that there is, in fact, a huge need for recovery, in particular as regards the National Action Plan on equality between women and men in the labour market. In fact, my written budget request shows that no separate funds are provided directly for the implementation of the National Action Plan on equality between women and men in the labour market at all. Now I'm wondering, What do we have for this project promotion if we do not use it for the plans we have already set ourselves, namely the achievement of the National Action Plan on equality between women and men in the labour market? Some of my colleague Berivan Aslan's questions have revealed the exact list of how this project funding of €620 000 in the area of women's budget is spent. For example, there is also a clear concentration of projects in the area of Vienna. This may not sound so bad at first sight, but that means that 72 percent of all funds in this project funding go to projects in Vienna. This is a huge concentration that is detrimental to women in the country. The Ministry has also said in the Committee on Budgets that, of course, no federal states are directly disadvantaged. In Vorarlberg, for example, no project has been funded, and this has to do with the fact that no project funding applications come from there. I think that is the wrong attitude. I believe that the Ministry also has the responsibility to address organisations to project organizers and to show them the possibility that they can also use project funding. That's extremely important. I think it's not a wrong thing. Claim that women living in rural regions in Austria are likely to be even more difficult, with regard to equality in terms of equality, than women living in Vienna. We have a huge need to catch up, not only in the area of childcare, but obviously also in the area of women's project promotion, and I believe that this is something that could be changed in the future: how the budget resources in the Ministry of Women are dealt with in concrete terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28616	Mr Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28637	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can return to the health budget, to the great challenges and changes, and I can only say as an example that today international research teams are already working very successfully on organ pressure processes, i.e. kidneys and livers from 3D printing processes. We can, I believe, also imagine what development medical technology and technology will take in the future and whatever great opportunities there will be in this area. The challenge for us, however, is that this progress is also ensured for all groups of the population, for all people, that we can put our health system on solid feet. We are also talking about this today in the health budget, which is to accept these major challenges. And we've heard it today: Yes, we are well placed in international comparison with many, many other countries. We can rightly be proud that the cost bill does not decide whether a person of old age will receive a hip operation or not, but that the medical assessment is in the foreground. However, we also know the concerns and fears as well as the feedback of the people that there are things that we need to improve. This starts with waiting times, which then goes in the direction of opening hours, which often no longer correspond to the reality of life and work, that goes all the way to the fight against two-class medicine and also affects the doctors who carry out their ordinations in the country. These are major challenges which we can, of course, solve with the budget and tackle. We have now reached long-term or medium-term security with the financial compensation. The health budget will rise, and that is also important and correct – but at least as important are reforms in this area. We must, together, also have the courage to stick to it and continue to clarify and drive these reforms together. Of course, every change brings fears; Change means uncertainty over and over again, and that is why I should like to ask you, as Mrs Minister has already said, to put the facts to the fore. A very concrete example: Sabine Oberhauser is a woman who has been fighting as a pediatrician for years, as a trade unionist and now as a minister for a strong, excellent public health system. – To believe that this woman is now committed to putting Group interests in the foreground is really absurd – really absurd! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So that it doesn't mean that I may have been caught as a social democrat, Erwin Rasinger is taken as an example. I don't know if there's anyone in this room who believes Erwin Rasinger wants to sell himself to a US investment fund as a house doctor. - That's really absurd. These are developments which no one here in Parliament believes. Let us not go on this propaganda and try not to insure the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think these reforms are necessary. The magic word in this field means cooperation: Cooperation between all those people who work in the health sector. This begins in the care, with the doctors, with physiotherapy, ranging from medical and technical services to ergotherapy, to the pharmacists and pharmacists. All of this is professional groups that are supposed to work together for the benefit of the patient, we need to strengthen it in the future and work on it piece by piece. Let's really try to take people with us instead of making them afraid.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28697	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28719	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My remarks concern the women's budget. The previous speakers have already mentioned what is financed by this – the 10,15 million € are a relatively small budget. If we are talking about an increase in resources, we need to see that, particularly in the context of refugee problems, which cannot be left out; of course, there are also changes and, unfortunately, more violence. We have debated the budget in the Committee. Ms Oberhauser was represented by the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of State then passed on the replies to the section shef, which made this very good and detailed. However, some questions remain open. As we all know and have already been mentioned today, women's policy is a cross-sectional matter and, of course, cannot be operated by a department alone. Two main points were mentioned: cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior on protection against violence, and cooperation with the Ministry of Education, where attention should be paid to increasing the proportion of men in educational professions. However, no positive changes have yet been made. It's been like this for a while: The men in pedagogical professions, in kindergartens, popular schools still have to be looked with the magnifying glass – there can be no talk of success. We have also discussed the problem with the women's houses and their utilization. The Council of Europe recommends a place in a women's house per 10,000 people, which is, of course, a problem in rural areas. For Tyrol, for example, this would mean making 70 places available. From this point of view one is far away; currently there are only two women's houses as well as emergency apartments in Lienz and in Kufstein. This is one point that concerns rural areas in particular, there are problems, and there is still a need to catch up. I also mentioned another issue in the Committee: Last year in March/April, it was reported that Vienna now has a women's house for Muslims, the first Islamic woman's house. I asked the section president in the committee and found out that the Ministry did not promote this institution. However, she could not answer the question of whether it really makes sense to build an Islamic women's house, and I would now like to pass this question on to you, Mrs Minister. It was planned that 50 women in emergency situations should be accommodated in apartments spread across the city. A further step would then be the actual women’s house: “on 900 square meters, emergency apartments are created that are gradually taken into account. ” There was also a donation call for private donors. It is also interesting to see what the head of this project said in an interview. The question why a woman's house needs it explicitly for Muslims has answered it as follows: “In conventional women’s homes, they cannot exercise their religion freely, are encouraged to put off the headcloth.” – This certainly does not contribute to integration, quite the contrary: If these women are isolated, it's certainly not good. Andrea Brem, the managing director of the association Wiener Frauenhäuser, which you will know very well, has clearly rejected this accusation. She said: “This is just a lie. The women can go to a mosque at any time, even in the rooms they can do what they want.” The interesting thing about this is now that the link to this donation call, which was still there, is now no longer active, you hear or read nothing more about this project. I would have liked to know what this woman's house for Muslims and this residential project is all about. Perhaps you can say something about this if you know something, otherwise we can clarify it in the bilateral discussion. I would be interested, because this has been shot off by the public again, because it may not be consciously informed either. This is a state that we cannot accept, so I have now explicitly addressed it and questioned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28774	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Oberhauser spoke for a brief opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28795	One or two sentences to clarify: Vienna is the place where this happens. [[Abg. Donate: Yes!]] As far as the public hand is concerned: Neither the ministry nor the city of Vienna have anything to do with this women's house, neither with donations nor with other things. I myself have been with the Vienna women's houses for many, many years. We have our women's houses, which are financed in a unique way by the city of Vienna and are managed in a unique way by the operators of the women's houses with a large budget discipline. It's like Andrea Brem says: With the Vienna women's houses, which have to do with the city of Vienna and with the public hand, there are no such restrictions. What you mentioned is a private project where I have no insight and the city of Vienna probably has no insight. As far as we know, there are no funding or other things there, because the city of Vienna itself covers its own “need” – under quotation marks – and this in an exemplary way.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28832	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28853	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! For me, the budget of breakdown 24 is particularly interesting from the point of view of the animal protection speaker. I am very glad to be able to report that the Minister of Health has again been working for a good budget in the field of animal welfare. I would like to add a few specific projects. There is one very important thing, as I think, that is the action “Animal Protection Makes School”. In order to provide animal protection free of worldly, religious or party or social influences on the basis of the current state of the sciences by modern educational methods, the association has concluded a promotion contract of € 278,000. There is also the department for animal welfare and animal welfare, which is supported by €200 000. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this department for animal welfare and animal welfare? – New, standard-made installation systems and novel technical equipment for animal husbandry, standard-made farming systems and stable facilities as well as pet accommodation and pet accessories are reviewed and evaluated in this department. [[Abg. Steinbichler: All desk culprits!]] A total of €189,944 are planned in the health budget for the evaluation of the farming systems in the field of fermenting bays, and this project will run until the end of 2017. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] In order to ensure the sustainable and animal protection-compliant accommodation of monkeys in Gänserndorf, which is still the subject, and to ensure the proper care of animals by a sufficient number of qualified caregivers as well as a scientifically designated management for the continuation of the ongoing resocialisation programme, the Ministry will provide €165,000 again for this project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] On the basis of this brief outline, ladies and gentlemen, you will see that the area of animal welfare of the Federal Government is important and will continue to be of high importance in the future. I would like to thank the Minister for Health that she has also implemented and implemented this budget in terms of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28919	Next item is Mrs Schimanek's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28941	Mr President. Federal Minister Rupprechter! Mrs Oberhauser, I am very pleased that you can be there today! I am now speaking again of the very, very small women's budget we have. Mr Aslan spoke of 0.01 percent – I reckoned: There are 0,013 promille from the total expenditure budget, and that's really, really not a lot. The budget has remained the same compared to the previous year – de facto it has actually become less because inflation has not been calculated, and of course this is not nice. Should it be possible to make a further increase in the female budget: From our site you would definitely have support. You have addressed 90 percent of your budget going to advisory facilities and women's homes. I too visit women's homes, Mrs Minister, and I report to the women that, with this increasingly scarce budget, the work and quality of the institutions are, of course, increasingly difficult to maintain. They also do a lot in their own initiative to ensure that women can be optimally cared for and protected. The women's houses are often there as a bitters, and they really didn't deserve that because they do excellent work. I would like to focus very briefly on the objectives of action. An impact target in the budget is yes: “Ongoing development of strategies and measures to limit violence against girls and women, as well as ensuring high-quality structures and aid services – zero tolerance against violence against women”. I wanted to know in the Committee whether there is already an interim report on the NAP, which is planned, and whether it is also available. – Unfortunately, I have not received an answer, perhaps you can tell me something. I would like to address another issue and ask if it is possible that we also talk about women and girls becoming perpetrators – just as it has just happened, documented with this violent video, which has gone through the media. This makes me very concerned when these women and girls who want to protect us become perpetrators themselves. Instead of so much more or less considering the veil that it simply should not be, I think it would be very important that we make such things visible and do something on this subject. Allow me a sentence on the online computer, presented last week by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Women: I was a little surprised that we now need a third online computer for karenz times. There is one that the family ministry has worked out, and now there is one from the Ministry of Women and the Social Affairs, which still has a big mistake: One has forgotten the single parents in this online computer, which is of course very unfortunate. However, Section Chef has confirmed that there will be a correction. That's very important. It is confusing if there are three different online computers with different calculation methods, where then something completely different comes out. I mean, that makes more confusion for women and, above all, families than it makes sense. Finally, I would like to say: In the overall view, it turns out to me that women's policy needs much, much more money, even if it is a cross-sectional matter, and some corrections would also be necessary in terms of content. Women's policy must be based on the circumstances of women's lives and must not be influenced by party ideology. I hope, Minister, I will get your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e28986	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29007	We are discussing a lot of figures this week, and of course we must not forget that these figures are always have an impact on our quality of life. If we now look at the effects of the avian influenza in Austria, we note that it has been used as an example, that remedial measures have been taken very quickly and that we in Austria have a network that has been created to do this. The issue of food safety is of course a very important one in a country where there is a high market share of biofood. It is therefore important that we spend a lot of money in this area, including the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety, the AGES. We will support these again next year with €71.7 million – this is just as much as it is in this year – and of course this is a challenge that can be seen by looking at the tasks that this agency has to deal with. Now, of course, we can discuss a lot about what it is doing and what effects it has if we have in the budget targets of effect, with which figures are fixed. I think that's important to raise awareness. For example, since 2010, the AGES has raised the use of antibiotics in the field of veterinary medicine: In 2010, 62.83 tonnes of antibiotics were consumed per year in Austria, and by 2015, the quantity was reduced to 48.78 tonnes, of which almost three quarters go to the area of pig mast. – There you can see that there is already awareness. Mrs Weigerstorfer has already mentioned it: One of the effective objectives is to reduce sugar consumption in Austria. WHO recommends six to twelve teaspoons daily, i.e. a maximum sugar consumption of 50 grams per day, 18 kilograms per year – Austria has reported a value of 34.4 kilograms in 2014. The difference is: WHO refers to free sugar, but we measure – because there is nothing else in numbers at present – fruit sugar and, I believe, even vegetable sugar. It is important, therefore, that we raise figures that we have figures at our disposal to be able to conduct an objective discussion in order to raise awareness in order to develop things further. Mr Schittenhelm has previously criticized a point on breast cancer screening. I would like to see an effect target on breast cancer screening, and that is the quality of the investigation or the findings. We have had a double finding since screening, and I believe we are all sure and convinced that the quality of the findings has been greatly increased by this measure.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29056	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29077	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a comment on Mrs Schittenhelm's speech, whose proposal I would like to expressly support: It is likely that programmes specifically addressed to men need to be opposed to the violence exercised by men. I think that – even in the face of some reactions here in the hall – it is quite superior, but that would not concern the Federal Minister, but the Minister of Social Affairs, I suspect almost once, with the men's department; but no matter how: [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: Social Minister!]] In any case, I think it is necessary. - So much for it. Now to you, Mrs. Federal Minister, because it was addressed – also by you in your remarks – it needs open, honest words: Yes, you were and are one that stands for it, I know it from my time as a social speaker, and that is why it should remain the same. There is no reason at all for us to somehow be afraid to spread the health care. Yes, there are great achievements in Austrian health care. It's good, this health care, but there's also deficits, and you have to talk about that. A deficit is for example, if you have to wait for a magnetic resonance tomography or a computer tomography for weeks or months, although you have pain, although you may also be a cancer patient or a cancer patient. A manko in health care is if you need to wait for an orthopaedic operation – be it on your hip or knee – not only for weeks, but for months and sometimes for a year, but you get an earlier operating date when you pay. I can't do that! This is not the case in Austrian health care, ladies and gentlemen. That's why I'm for open words, and I can only say: I am not happy if we have almost no time to talk about the reforms that are now under way, because there is no assessment phase because there is far too little time to discuss this. On the other hand, I know that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are someone who stands for the conversation, so I am looking for all the groups involved, in the upcoming, not simple operations to be carried out, the doctors, the health staff, but also the insured. It is good if there is to be a target agreement committee, but it should also agree on targets for the insured, which are understandable to those. One of these goals would be that there should be no waiting times over x days for an orthopaedic surgery, the specialist in ophthalmology and so on – we know the weaknesses. That would be a step forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29133	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29154	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Yeah, it's true: Health policy must and should always focus on people, should of course put the patient at the centre of the patient, and from that point of view we must also look at how to ensure the best possible supply. I give you the right, Mr Oellinger: Our health system is good, it is one of the world's best if I can say so, and yet there are weaknesses. But I am also convinced that precisely under Minister Oberhauser these wounds are being looked at. The primary supply centres are also a response to the major health problems, in addition to the challenges we all know about you. We know that there have been problems in the field of medical care in recent years; the reasons for this have already been mentioned and are different. I don't think it's easy to just refer to the payment. There may also be the work-life balance of young doctors This also includes the fact that more and more young women are doctors and this round-the-clock availability may sometimes be difficult, so you have to look carefully. From my point of view, primary supply centres are just as much an answer as networks in medical care are to how to cope with this bottleneck in the supply. I would also like to ask the colleague, Mr Diesner-Wais, a little bit of the fear that there will be no more freedom of choice among doctors in such care centres. Of course, you can always choose the doctor freely. There is no requirement for a doctor to visit. It would be absurd if you thought in that direction. And one may also have to note in the discussion that even in healthcare centres people, doctors, who focus on the well-being of the patient, the patient. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] It is not just economic success. I mean, you really should think about this in this discussion, and you should talk a little bit more about facts in our post office world, in which it seems that you can only do more with abdominal moods. We are convinced that cooperation in the supply centres is good, that it is important and that the challenges in the health system can be best overcome in the next few years. I would like to conclude with the words of Karl Ollingerran: Sabine Oberhauser stands for honest politics, a policy that focuses on patients and a solidary health system. For this, Sabine Oberhauser is certainly a Garantin.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29212	Mrs Lintl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29233	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of women and equality, local competence has changed far too often in recent years. First the Federal Chancellery was responsible, then the Ministry of Education and now the Ministry of Health. Of course, this often change does not make it easier to read and compare the budgets. These many changes are thought to be a cause of change in the impact targets each year. For example, two targets, which have fallen away from 2014 to 2015, were suddenly back in the Federal Estimate 2016. One of the two objectives, namely the determination of actual discrimination against women, has completely disappeared. The new Objective 3 is: ‘Null tolerance towards violence against women’; this is very important. I understand, of course, that every minister wants to set his or her own priorities. However, this does not make it easy to follow the success of achieving these objectives. The goal of “zero tolerance for violence against women ” seems particularly important to me. Especially in recent months we have heard terrifying reports about violence, murders and brutal sexual assaults on women. I just remember the best-selling murder in the well market. At that time it was said that it was an individual case, but it was a case of individual cases of barbaric crimes which had never happened to us in the past. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Go, please!]] The mass immigration from Muslim countries has brought men to Europe, who, due to their religion, have a completely different image of women, which has nothing to look for in our enlightened society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Similarly, customs and customs from these countries of origin have been imported in which Muslim women and girls are severely restricted in their personal freedom, so that they often do not even trust in leaving their home. I hope, Madam Minister, that at some point these women will trust to come to the advisory centres. The Minister of Women must certainly be active and raise awareness, even if the budget has not been increased. I ask you, Mrs Minister, not only to speak of advice, but to force integration and recognition of our values and thus protection for women. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Women and girls should be able to move freely in the public without having to be afraid of robbery. Of course, they should also be protected against any abuse in the family environment, and this in accordance with the objective: ‘zero tolerance for violence against women’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29292	Mr Knes. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29313	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have been debating the health budget for over an hour. We can be proud that we have spent an amount of just over one billion euros on the health budget at the Federal Government. Finally, the overall budget for our health system in Austria is well over 25 billion euros, because it is agreed on and ultimately the countries are responsible for it through the Article 15a agreement with the countries. Even outside the budget, we can all contribute substantially to health, namely prevention, which does not cost much money. I also lack complete occupational health promotion. I would like to give an example of a project that we thankfully have also created with our Minister Sabine Oberhauser, namely to promote occupational health promotion with a start-up package for large industrial companies, but also for micro-enterprises. We really plan effective prevention here, steps towards health even in everyday work. We from the Mondi – this is a world group with nine locations here in Austria – have developed a sustainable health concept for the first time over this successful project, for which I would like to thank you very much once again, for our employees and for it they themselves have taken money; they should be able to stay healthy longer and thus also in the work process. This, ladies and gentlemen of the House, should continue to be our responsibility in the future to work in prevention and not only after that, if we are already sick and the costs explode. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make one comment on the women's budget. Of course, I share the opinion of Sabine Oberhauser and many previous speakers: It cannot be said that, as a Member of Parliament, we are here in the House with the smallest budget of €10 million and then we are going to hang out to the Ministry of Women and say: Do something! It is quite clear that over 92 percent of these €10 million will be used for fixed expenditure. I would like to remind you that we are already starting an action the next morning: 16 days against violence against women. They're not just keywords! We should really put ourselves together seriously. I would also like to remind you that we are the This budget should be decided, and we should use the last few hours until tomorrow's decision-making process to really pump money into the women's budget. I'm not going to let myself down there and I'm really going to stretch my hand toward ÖVP. I can't wait to be comforted until spring. The women's budget is up! I would ask the Minister of Finance to give a real signal to women and to increase this budget of €10 million. We need this very much, because the women deserve it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29364	The next speaker was Mr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29386	Mr President. Mr and Mrs Minister! High house! I've been dealing with the precautionary care and the precautionary budget and what's planned by the Ministry of Health in terms of prevention. I have met with various projects such as gender projects and rabies projects – that they are interconnected, I dare not claim here now. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, I dare to say clearly and can also prove that certain major projects such as intestinal cancer prevention and dementia are clearly lacking. I think there is still a lot of potential, namely, from the Ministry's side, to make political advertising for precautionary medicine, because it really affects many, many people. We have probably 200 000 dementia patients in Austria in the foreseeable future, and we have 5 000 cases of intestinal cancer every year. There is really a lot more to be done, and effective precautions such as intestinal cancer prevention should be supported in a massive way. What I am still concerned with is not a material budget, but rather a budget - I call it a budget of appreciation. Today, I was particularly shocked by a broadcast by the Ministry of Health, which literally claimed that it was primarily for the doctors and exclusively for the sake of making money and that they were not interested in any reforms. Mrs. Minister, you mentioned it yourself earlier, dealing with each other is important. How do we deal with each other? Is it appreciative and respectful? – In such a broadcast I cannot see any appreciation of the medical profession. Nor can I appreciate this most important group of health professionals if, in various political decision-making processes, the medical board and the doctors as a whole take away the right to decide and work constantly in the entire health policy to disassembly a stand. It's just unworthy! I am also an opponent of constantly degrading the doctors to service providers who are to stick to standards, evaluations, EbM and all the other things that are so perplexing through the room. That's not good for individual medicine. This not only affects the doctor, but ultimately also the patient. Imagine that you would deal with the metallurgicals in the honorary order as you deal with the doctors, and ask for other fees in every federal country and at every health insurance institution! I don't think that would work. [[Abg. Katzian: You want to choose it yourself!]] - We want to talk with you! It is not possible for me to imagine that social democracy would allow such a thing to be standard for other professional groups. There would be the Ringstraße and the Hero Square full of demonstrating trade unionists. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to be vigilant – this has already been addressed several times today – because the industrialization of medicine is at the doorstep. There is a return of Taylorism. Taylorism means that all processes are classified, segmented and assigned to certain service providers. I think it is very bad if public institutions such as the Vienna Hospital Association are only partially privatized, because that is not in the sense of the patients and not in the sense of public health care. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need to know that there are examples in Europe that hospital associations in large cities have been privatized or private operators have been handed over, for example in Hamburg. There has been a negative effect, and this is what I would like to repeat to colleagues Oellinger: Do you know what happened in Hamburg? – Suddenly, the well-rated and well-paid operations in the former public hospitals, which were administered by private operators, have increased dramatically. After some time, after a few years, it was thought that it might not be the best idea for city administrations to give their public services to private operators. I say yes to private hospitals, but I say clearly No to privatize major public devices such as the Wiener KAV. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to define our terms a little better. If we are constantly talking about PHCs, then we are talking about supply centres, which are supposed to integrate different professional groups under one roof, and so far it is still not quite clear who should be in charge. As a doctor, I'm not a special friend of it either. This may work in individual regions, for example in the country, if there really is such a lack of medical and agricultural doctors, but in Vienna they are proved to be pointless. We have a PHC on the Mariahilfer Straße, which works so half-way after my information. The second PHC, which has been thought of or is already ready for operation, does not want a human being. No one takes that. Why doesn't anyone take that? Why does not any company or association of doctors of this PHC, although the other PHC has been subsidized with €200 000? – No ordination in Austria has ever been subsidized; this PHC has been subsidized. From my point of view, it would be much more useful to build medical centers – as well as the doctor's chamber – than to focus on PHCs that no human wants and probably are not really needed by the patients. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think that we should go into the depths of the debate and talk about it again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29459	Mr Schopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29481	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you in advance for the many good congratulations on my birthday. On the subject, on the budget, in particular on a subject that is very important to me personally, namely the free gears: My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! A famous Irish author once wrote: “Health is the first duty in life.” It is a special duty for the state which is responsible to its citizens. The budget in UG 24, health, is remarkable in this sense – remarkable because, when we look at the financial framework by 2020, we find that it will eventually increase by more than 3 percent, while in almost all of Europe, health care will be saved. However, we know that healthcare is a very important factor in quality of life, and that is particularly important, but it is also a social factor. Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, the government has also introduced free gears on a social-democratic initiative. Not only do we make children’s smiles even more beautiful, but we also fulfil a very important social mission. The income of parents must not be recognizable by the children's teeth. Poverty and financial distress are still subject to stigmatization, which unfortunately is particularly noticeable for children. With the free gears, which can also be found in the present draft budget, we meet a need. This also shows us very clearly the figures. Last year we have awarded a total of 48,869 benefits. The total cost for health insurance companies was more than 27 million euros. These are investments not only for our children, but above all investment in the future as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, this is important and useful, and I am looking for appropriate budget posts for free gears to be available in the future. Lady Minister, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29523	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29544	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Minister, I am pleased that you are back here today, and Mr Walter Schopf, all the best for your birthday! Congratulations! [[General condolences.]] Dear colleague Karl Ollinger, the fact is – you mentioned this in your speech earlier – that: We in Austria have one of the best health systems, and I think that must remain so. This is a decisive factor. Ladies and gentlemen! Now back to the budget, Federal Finance Act 2017, Division 24, Health and Women: For this area, €1.1 billion is in the Federal Estimate, which means an increase of 2.1 percent compared to the previous year. The largest chunks, namely €635.4 million, is intended for the financing of hospitals, which is correct and necessary. For the first time, there is a financial contribution from the countries to primary care, because in the framework of the financial compensatory negotiations, the Federal Government, countries and social security funds have decided on a deepening of the health reform – whatever that may mean, I do not think anything good. The annual cost increase from 3.6 percent is expected to be reduced to 3.2 percent and maintained until 2021. It has already been mentioned a few times today, Mrs Minister, also by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, and if I look at the development of the health system, I fear, of course, bad too. I do not claim that you represent their interests, but I believe that the large industry wants to take a foothold that it wants to operate the health facilities in the future. I believe that we must counter this process and this development accordingly, because it cannot be the case that the soil is being prepared for the large investors in health policy, in the hospitals. No, we don't! I believe that it is still necessary to ensure the best medical care in Austria, and this should remain the case in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29602	The next item is the speech by Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29623	Mr President. Mrs Oberhauser! Minister Rupprechter! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Our women's ministers have been fighting each and every year. They and all of us together have more money for more than 50 percent of the population. Hot € 10 million are then explicit for the women's budget inside – equal to the People's Procuratorate, with leave. Ladies and gentlemen, in concrete terms Mr Finanzminister, the protection, empowerment and strength of girls and women must simply be worth more than €10 million! We do not want to wait any longer, so I hope to have an increase until tomorrow, which we will then be able to decide. With this €10.2 million, the women's ministry is creating, Minister Sabine Oberhauser creates a great deal; started with essential anti-violence facilities, special advice centres for women and girls, targeted apps to support women, an action plan on women's health, which also deals with the important issue of access to contraception, up to actions against hatred on the network. It is simply our job to strengthen women, to support them and to provide assistance in violence. I think in real life there has already been very, very much success, not least through that since 1. In January 2016, the law implementing sexual harassment into criminal law. We were smiled, but if you know that 29 percent of the 1,700 women surveyed are confronted with unwanted embraces and kisses, then this law implementation has been extremely important to protect women and thus to join in. [[Abg. Singer: What?]] We need to get a little better on the Internet. It is, of course, also up to us to raise awareness of our language, to stop violent calls, threats of rape and sexual harassment on the web, to show them and to bring them to light. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] We are also required to show civil court. On the other hand, there is a need for uncomplicated and low-spoolling tools that just attack hate postings. One is a very helpful guide, initiated by State Secretary Muna Duzdar, and I think it should be published and disseminated even more. The other is a point of contact for victims of hatred on the net. Minister Oberhauser has traded and created a tool with the fem:HELP app, which enables the display and documentation of hate postings to be rather down-to-earth and facilitated. Let us show these boundaries whether in real life or on the Internet! Injury, injury, slander, sexual harassment and violence are clearly punishable, and one should show that one can get help from the Women's Help Line against violence supported by the Women's Ministry under 0800 222 555. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29666	Mrs Mag. Grossmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29687	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the direct budget for the women's resort is too low to meet the growing demands is obvious and has already been noted several times by speakers. Institutions such as consultancy and service agencies, violence protection centres, intervention agencies across Austria have an increasing number of advisory services. The need increases, which is no wonder in view of the fact that every fifth woman is affected by violence in the course of her life. With these facilities, we have achieved a surface coverage of 85 percent, but this means that these facilities must also be maintained with their highly qualified, highly motivated and committed staff, including the valorizations. On the other hand, this also means that there is too little room for planning important awareness-raising measures. That there is still a lot possible is due to the creativity of the respective ministers – I look in the direction of Gabriele Heinisch-Hosekund, of course, towards Sabine Oberhauser –: great initiatives, great campaigns, such as the campaigns #gegenHassimNetz and against the K.-o. troops, but we still need a lot more, for example when it comes to breaking traditional role images. We have far too few girls in technical professions, which presents us with problems in the labour market, and on the other hand – which has already been addressed – too few boys in social and educational professions. [[Abg. Singer: Yes, if they don't want to! What do you want to do?]] We must address all of this with conscious campaigns, but equality is a cross-sectional matter and affects all departments. [[Abg. Singer: Let them do what they want, and not what you want!]] [[Abg. Singer makes the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] . Let us see this as an obligation, including you, Mr Zanger, who find it particularly funny! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Kucharovich.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Oberhauser.]] In this sense, you will see how important these campaigns are, how important awareness-building is and how much there is to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29759	Mr Zanger, I would ask you, Mr President, to put a stop to gestures that could offend or insult a speaker. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more words to me about the breakdown of health and women. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[14:47:56]] UG 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management UG 43: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29794	We now come to the negotiation of subheadings 42 and 43. A joint debate on this is taking place again. Mr Jannach is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29819	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! We are now debating the 2017 Federal Proposal, Chapter Agriculture. The situation of agriculture should now also be known to the non-agricultural population. There has been a serious income reduction for four years. We would have expected that, in the course of this budget creation, the Ministry of Agriculture would also have an impact on the Ministry of Finance in order to create the budget in such a way that it really shows a recognizable trend in the distribution of funding, in the distribution of grants to farmers. We do not find this here, and therefore we will not approve this budget for agriculture in this form. We want a shift from these funds to the active farmers. I do not think that the Federal estimates include active measures that respond to this dramatic situation. On the contrary! There's basically a continuation of what we already have. We have increased personnel costs, only in the last two years plus 8 percent. The AMA – which we already criticized last year – had an incredibly increased staff costs compared to the current staff costs. Staff costs amount to €44 million for 650 employees, resulting in an average staff salary of €70 000. This is, in our view, a scandal, since it belongs to massive steps and something changed. A little Bonmot. From 2014 to now, only the supplements estimated at the Ministry – allowances for anniversary grants, social benefits from the ministry, additional fees and the like for staff – have increased by 37 percent! This is €1.7 million for supplements and an incredible increase, even there we would have expected you to save and limit. In addition, there is support for the Eco-Social Forum, which no one really needs. There is funding for the internationalisation of the Presidential Conference of €500 000, which we could remove without problems, and there would be no damage to any farmer. Hundreds of thousands of euros will be thrown out! There is also the Court of Auditors' report on the Green Report, which strongly criticises the fact that the cost of €3.5 million is overestimated. What do you say in the answer to the question to the budget today? – The same sum is estimated again. Mr Minister, you are not willing to intervene! We have recently received the Court of Auditors' report on AMA marketing, and I really advise each farmer to look at it once. It's a scandal, how it's managed. Farmers are required to have all compliance guidelines until they enter the bedroom. As the AMA marketing did not act exactly, it freely forgave everything: Zero control, waste of money without end! [[Congratulations to the FPÖ, to representatives of the Stronach team and to Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Loacker.]] I really address this appeal to you, Mr Minister, and to the Farmers' Federal Deputies: Why is the economic and corruption prosecutor's office not entering? – In the AMA marketing, the management is released and indicated, because this waste of money, this intransparency, this vet economy that happens there, smells like heaven. There must be an urgent change. [[New condolences with the FPÖ, with representatives of the Stronach team as well as with Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Loacker.]] If the accusation comes back again, the liberals have no proposals, no ideas on how to change: We have requested many things that have unfortunately been rejected by the government: We have demanded that the agricultural diesel be reintroduced, as it is €50 million for farmers – not as an additional support, but other European countries have this mineral oil tax refund and we have a distortion of competition, which is why we have called for it. We voted against the increase in social security contributions decided in the 2012 savings package. We have demanded that the re-estimation of unit values does not lead to such a massive increase as it is now, because now there are some 30, 40, 50 percent increase in unit values that will have a massive impact on farmers' contributions and on tax revenue – we were against it too. We were against the abolition of the milk quota. The price drop now shows how many dairy farmers suffer from this abolition. Moreover, what was bought as a milk quota by farmers and has now become worthless was basically a theft of agricultural property. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] We are also against the Russian sanctions. Russia's sanctions are a massive damage to the Austrian economy and also to agriculture, so we are again demanding that these sanctions be finally considered. We hope that something will happen in this direction too. But now on a very up-to-date issue – because my speaking time is also limited – the social security contributions of the farmers. So what happened here is, in my opinion, a real scandal. Minister, I don't need to read it to you – or should I read it? – what you said about these discharges half a year ago for farmers, including Members of the school, as well as Members of Parliament, Jacob have said: “170 million for dairy farmers” – a total of € 170 million discharge for farmers – “Auer: SVB discount fixed in the Council of Ministers’; ‘Schultes: (...) SVB relief comes’. What you presented yesterday as a discharge is an injustice. So you would have left it better if you asked me, because this is an unequal treatment and creates a two-class society in agriculture. Companies that have less than €13 200 in unit value are mostly in the secondary acquisition, and they are now relieved, who do not pay a social security contribution. The very wide middle class of holdings, which are not in the maximum contribution base, but which reach the 13 200-€ limit, will not receive any relief. That's most unfair! We will never give our assent to this government proposal. I also hope that the Farmers' Federation, and above all you, Jakob Auer, will also keep what you have announced, namely that this will not be accepted as a government template to decide. This is an injustice for the really active farmers working in the middle class. are those who do not receive a discharge, and they have actually suffered a very serious damage in the milk sector and with the frost damage in recent years. That is why we are urgently calling for a change. What was presented is absolutely unacceptable to us. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dietrich.]] To sum up and end up with the budget, I would like to say that we would have wanted ourselves – I and the Freedom Party – to be much more saved in the administration. One should really try to limit the bureaucratic effort and the cost of bureaucracy to the extent that it also corresponds to the number of farmers. Now the situation is that we have fewer and fewer farmers, but no significant restriction on the costs of managing these farmers. It cannot be said that at the end of the day 1 000 farmers are left and that the administration is still the same size. We really want to link the cost of managing the number of farms in Austria, because there would be a great deal to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29934	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e29955	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that agriculture is more than just production should be undisputed. The fact that agriculture is an essential factor in the field of employment in the supranational and downstream sectors should also be undisputed. No one should dispute that agriculture is essential for the conservation of the cultural landscape. As agriculture is therefore an important industry in the economy, some people in this House may also be able to gain a little more strong awareness in this regard as far as recognition is concerned. Sometimes I miss this awareness that agriculture is an essential industry. Farmers need a lot of farm resources, investment goods, services, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises ensure trade, crafts and commerce. They are essentially very closely associated with the peasantry and ultimately also benefit from the award of the contract of agricultural agriculture in Austria; therefore, it would be all the more important to provide the appropriate support here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger]] I'll hold on to this. The Federal Minister has indeed negotiated a positive budget, he has achieved a great deal in recent years. I can remind you of my veneration Ladies and gentlemen: Who was it that essentially repaired the almenchaus – I expressly say: essentially –? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Who made it possible for exports, ladies and gentlemen? – That was Mr. Rupprechter. Who was it that this year – together with all of us – in connection with the frost damage has made a significant contribution to remedying the worst damage and difficulties? The question of the social security contribution discount for a quarter was raised by Mr Jannach: Mr SPÖ Minister Steger – Stäger – to be precise: [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Move!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Stäger!]] [[Abg. Loacker: As long as you have stüger in your head!]] Alois Stäger; let's actually put it this way: Mr SPÖ Minister Alois Stöger is always right to say that it is important to act socially, fairly and fairly. Social policy in this sense is important, as it is right, I agree. [[Call:]] – Mr Stöger. With regard to the need to help that professional group, which has difficulties because it cannot generate cost-effective prices on the market, and therefore to allow it to fall short of social security contributions for a quarter, the terms social, fair and fairness are obviously no longer applicable. I will show you this on the basis of an example – I believe that you did not think exactly when you designed the government template –: Mr. Stöger, Federal Minister, lives in the Pesenbachtal region of Upper Austria. If his wife managed a small farm there with seven to eight hectares and was therefore below the unit value of €13 200, then his wife would naturally receive the discount of the social security contribution for a quarter. There outside is a small employee of the Parliament who earns €1 300 because he is busy for three days, and therefore his wife is also sole manager. This woman, however, has a half-hectare agriculture greater than the previous fictitiously designed woman of the Federal Minister of Agriculture, who receives nothing more, because she comes to a level of 13 200 € precisely because of half a hectare and therefore has a higher unit value – by a few hundred euros. If this is social, fair and fair, I mean, Mr Preiner, you thought in the issue: The rich are supposed to pay for it themselves! –, we have a huge problem on this question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: Incredible!]] Secondly, it is obvious that in the West of Austria, out of tradition, only the Hoferbe or the Hoferbin manages the operation, i.e. that a person is a manager, while in some federal states, from tradition, two, i.e. both spouses, are managers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] In one state, in which both managers are, they do not receive this even if there are much higher unit values, in the other state. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's why I'm asking: Back to the start to renegotiate and discuss this! Mr Loacker, what you think is social justice for the peasantry, has proved you today with your speech. I congratulate you on this! The farmers know in the future: NEOS is not even in thought a party that could be given confidence! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore urge you to think again in the parliamentary process, so that for this imbalance, which can, above all, be implemented in medium-sized, self-employed farms, which only have to live from agricultural incomes and fall through rust, a reasonable, a fairer solution, because what is now on the table is not to be reconciled with social, fair and fairness.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30072	Mr Pirklhuber is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30094	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Values Watchers at the gallery! It is a rare opportunity to hold an agricultural policy debate on social justice. I am pleased when Mr Auer wants to put social justice in the centre, and indeed: This is the challenge, not only in the agricultural sector, but in the whole of social development. Let us take a look at what the agricultural budget looks like, Mr Auer. In fact, it looks like – Mr Jannach pointed out – that the funding system is not reformed at all. It would have been a possibility to contribute to greater social justice through Federal Minister Rupprechter. I'm just calling a number: 2.5 percent of all beneficiaries – and this is less than 3,000 farmers – receive 25 percent, i.e. a quarter of all agricultural support paid to farmers. Mr. Federal Minister, Green Report 2016, page 213, you can do so if you do not believe it. That is the fact, Mr Auer, and if you say right now that it may be unfair what has been decided, I say: Yes, you would have been better able to negotiate it more transparently. We Greens are willing to make our contribution to social policy measures in rural areas as well. Where have the transparent negotiations been? – We have only heard announcements – from Red and Black, but above all from Minister Rupprechter and you, colleague Auer, and then a call by the social insurance companies has gone: How's that going? On the next opportunity come the construction workers or a company that is insolvent, and they say: Unfortunately, the social security contributions have to be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a delicate question! - Yes, wait, colleague Höfinger! – It is fact that this is to be considered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] And now it comes: We can very well imagine an approval, but only then, Mr Auer, even if systematic fundamental reform efforts are implemented; if the entire contribution system is evaluated and suspended in 2018 and finally a scientific analysis is carried out, because just, ladies and gentlemen, the existing system is not at all! I can give many practical examples from agriculture which prove this. Farmers can sing a song of it, as unfairly in the meantime, both the support system and the social system, which is completely opaque and opaque, are present in rural areas. That's fact. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as agricultural control is concerned, too, there is really anything but joy that comes from us at the moment. Mr Jannach mentioned the Court of Auditors' report on AMA marketing. 55 improvement measures, the far-reaching criticisms and, indeed, points which clearly point to a friendly economy, ladies and gentlemen! It is noted that contracts are awarded free of charge, that ÖVP young farmers are served regularly and systematically without any performance catalogue of € 40 000, € 50 000 per year. This is almost party funding, what happens there, colleague Auer! [[Call at the FPÖ: This is party funding!]] You must remove this accusation, and I urge you, Federal Minister, urgently – and we will have to put it on the agenda at the next Committee on Agriculture – to prepare a reform of the AMA legislation, so that the supervisory obligations and supervisory rights relating to AMA marketing are finally strengthened and finally there is transparency, where the contributions paid by farmers, where EU funds are to be used, and thus finally the political influence will end, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] You will ask: Why is this so dangerous? – a short word on the Supervisory Board: The Supervisory Board of the Agricultural Market Austria consists of seven persons, including the ex Minister Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll für die Leipnik-Lundenburger Invest Beteiligungs AG as well as the representative of a subsidiary of this Leipnik, the GoodMills Österreich GmbH – two representatives, one of whom is obliged to order the colleague Pröll. This is also very interesting, a 100 percent daughter, who is also represented in it. Now comes the political context, ladies and gentlemen: There is a single area which is excluded from marketing contributions in the agricultural market in Austria, and this is the cereals industry, although the law provides that cereal grinding per tonne is to be paid 3,5 € in contributions. That's in the AMA law. Who does not pay AMA contributions? – It is this sector, which is also represented in the Supervisory Board, while those who contribute most, namely the Austrian dairy industry, have no representative in the Supervisory Board at all. – This is just an example. I tell you, Mr Minister, if you are not doing a change of law as soon as possible, so that this institution can become even more clearly responsible to Parliament, it will really have to go to the Procuratorate of the Corruption, and I hope that you will be clear here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30147	The next item is the speech by Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30169	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions at home! I refer to agriculture and rural development in my comments, and thank you very much to all farmers, all farmers for their work, even in economically difficult times. The agricultural and rural development sector comprises €2.1 billion for the 2017 budget year, which is only 0.2 percent more than the agricultural budget in 2016. I would have imagined to myself, in the sense of farmers and all farms, Mr Minister, that in your negotiations with the Minister of Finance, you are making a slightly higher budget for agriculture. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The income situation is precarious, ladies and gentlemen. This is also shown in the Green Report 2016. Globally, there has been a fall in agricultural income of 17 percent in 2015. This also concerns the incomes of the miners in category 3, but above all the auxiliary farmers. The rural family farms can sing a song of it – therefore my demand for a higher budget. In 2016, in this year, there have been numerous weather-related caprioles through Frost and Hail. This means that income will fall by up to 80 percent, especially in Eastern Austria. [[Call at ÖVP:Austria, this is interesting!]] This is also a special challenge for farms. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has been the government that has put in place appropriate financial measures insofar as farmers who have been particularly affected by these weather conditions and are at risk of existence, regardless of whether hail is insured or not, receive financial security from the disaster fund – of course, at an appropriate request. I would also like to point out that yesterday's Council of Ministers decision very much agrees with what the SPÖ Group finds in Parliament, because 80 percent of farmers benefit from it by giving them the social security contributions for the fourth quarter of 2016. The remaining 20 percent are made up of farms with the highest income. I therefore take the view that the approach is both generally and socially fair, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, allow me to make one more point. If we continue to want to keep Bioland number one in Europe, it will also be necessary to provide more than € 112 million for organic farming. In the current year alone, some 2 000 farms have changed from traditional farming to organic farming. In line with your responsibility for the rural development programme, which lasts until 2020, you can create more distribution justice, more distribution to farmers, to organic farming, as well as to the ancillary agricultural sector! Quality before quantity, fair prices for producers and consumers – this is the foreign exchange. The aim of the SPÖ is therefore to increase distribution justice, i.e. to promote more intensive labour use, away from partly unfair and unsocial land development. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30208	Mr Schellhorn is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30230	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! We are all aware that this is a special case, including with regard to common budgeting and budgets dependent on the common budget. I firmly believe that, with all legitimate criticism, it is only through a common European agricultural policy and that it is on a very good path. As a matter of fact, we must also remember that everything and thus subsidies come from the European Union. In this respect, we cannot act alone, but – and this is the crucial point now, Mr Auer has said something about “undisputed” – I believe that we must emphasize that there is a preference for the rural population and farmers as far as the tax system is concerned. I only recall the package, the exemption from the registers in connection with association festivals and preparatory organizations. These are already enormous advantages over small and medium-sized enterprises or entrepreneurship in Austria. When Mr Auer speaks of social, fair and fair values of unity, we have to ask in general whether we should not rethink taxation with the values of unity and talk about what is going to happen and what this will look like. I am almost getting a breath when I look back at the next gifts for a missing agricultural policy in this quarter and what you will put in place with the SVB in order to free the farmers from it. I remind you: In tourism we have the exact same sales problems with the Russians. Guests, there are also climate losers in tourism, but where does this claim tourism? – He does not do it at all because he knows that he must continue to exist in international competition with innovative ideas. Here, I think, is the mistake. The lack of agricultural policy with the distribution of toxic coupons is simply a wrong strategy. On the same point, I would like to remind you of what my previous speakers have said and of the AMA. AMA, this is almost an Armageddon for me or not for me, but rather the Armageddon for the ministers of agriculture, because the Court of Auditors' report in this respect is so destructive that it is impossible to find it at all. Now a few highlights from my motion for a resolution, which I just want to read out, so that someone knows it – perhaps the taxpayers do not know. It is the tax payment money that is wasted here. Taxplayer’s money, as you say so beautifully, is simply thrown here. My motion for a resolution reads as follows: “From 2010 to 2014, the administrative burden of AMA Marketing increased by around. 50 %, while the total cost remained almost the same. The strongest increase was recorded in the case of staff costs related to management and management.’ Another point is: “AMA Marketing worked closely with the agricultural chambers and, together with them, carried out marketing measures through [...] Written agreements between AMA Marketing and the Chambers of Agriculture on the settlement and settlement of joint marketing measures and projects (pp. EUR 950,000 [...]) was missing’ Where are control measures? What action are there being taken? – In this respect, I must say: It is not only destructive to the criticism of the Court of Auditors, but it is neither fair nor fair nor social if we let one pay the taxes, while the other are flat-rate. Furthermore, it is neither fair nor fair or social if such an opaque organization is also promoted or further, for which the Court of Auditors is destroyed. In this context, I think you should reconsider the passport fairly, fairly and socially, Mr Auer.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30291	The next item is the speech by Mr Hoefinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30312	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As environmental spokesperson, let me first address the environmental agendas, the 43 environment, which we have already discussed in the Committee and before. First of all, we could think that the benefits would be reduced because the budget is 3% lower. This is not the case and clearly documented several times. The tasks covered by this chapter are extensive. It is about the concept of general environmental policy; it is about environmental promotion in the country where private or operational projects are implemented, namely climate protection. It is about environmental, nature and radiation protection, the waste management, the settlement water management and much more in this context. As far as the financing of all these tasks is concerned, of course, there is this budget, which is being presented, but we have already explained to the public that there are still reserves here, which can also be used, if the applications and projects submitted become more, in order to finance these projects. This is mainly about the domestic funding area, photovoltaic installations and much more, in this context, or the urban water industry, which is largely handled through the municipalities. So please, do not deliberately assume that it will be less – no, all these tasks and projects can then be served as well! Another thing that is frequently used is that we have cross-financing via various chapters of this House, which also go into the field of agriculture, or the special actions announced by the Federal Minister last week or even these days. One is the promotion of electric mobility, which is currently at €72 million, of which we expect a strong boost, with regard to the further expansion and sale of electric vehicles and also the gas stations behind them. However, it is also the funding of the 100 million package, which will become effective in 2016/2017, which is about renewables, so that they can be forced and increased. A word on the general debate on agriculture, which has now been held. In my previous speakers, it is noted that either out of purpose or out of gross ignorance they enormously mix or simply ignore the facts that are available. This is dangerous, especially at a time when many farms are economically very poor, but they can't do it at all and have to be tied up to a package of measures to help these farmers. What is being mixed here with indifference no longer corresponds to the dignity of this house. I would really ask you to go back to the subject matter, so that you can finally give the appropriate support to these companies too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30361	Mr Steinbichler is speaking next. I'll set your speaking time to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30400	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners on the gallery and in front of the televisions! So once a fairy tale started, and that's what it's called: [[Keeping a plate with the title “Taste of Homeland” in height, on which a young woman is depicted in coat with a glass of milk in both hands and beside her head a bubble of thought in the form of a heart with the inscription “I am standing on it”]] ‘Taste of Homeland’. This was also applied and presented very intensively. As Mr Höfinger has just said, there are many who do not recognize themselves and try to interpret something in it, trying to make it clear: I have felt with all previous speakers that they are in serious concern about farmers – and I thank them – in serious concern about food sovereignty and serious concern about the supply of this country and its citizens with ordinary, healthy, regional food. It is the most important and most important task of an economy to ensure that citizens can provide healthy and honest food. For 30 years now, we have been talking about the quality of life of our guests in direct connection with the well-kept cultural landscape, but above all our population, and also about the production of regional products such as meat, milk, with all products that come to the plate daily. But, Minister Rupprechter, I have to say: I'm very disappointed because you sold it like that at the time. This chaos not only existed with regard to the almens – a problem that was not solved – but also with regard to social security. That's just a panseries. There is. There is also in the stable: When it's bulging, it's all over the place! And you still have the need for you to fly far away and act crazyly successfully at important environmental conferences. I was really excited about the photo in the “Kurier”, also that you have now flown to Marrakech to look at the state of the TU Vienna. This is more environmentally friendly, we look at it directly in Vienna. And there is the problem that one is constantly trying to distract from reality. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And because there can't be enough taste of the home – and, of course, the food sovereignty is at risk – I took away the latest advertising gag, which is supposed to be butter taste very expensive, but very good. [[Keep a piece of PHASE butter in height]] There are already 126 cooks on the advertising list. And now this packerl is becoming more and more important. [[Keeping the piece PHASE butter in height]] That's the butter that's talking about here on this poster. [[pointing to the panel on the speaker’s desk, which reads: “Butter taste is very important to me, but also expensive. This is PHASE Professional. Good as butter. Better in the price.”]] This is palm oil. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] This is palm oil, Minister! What are you talking about at the environmental conferences? To the “taste of the home” I have of course also taken the right carry bag: [[Keeping them in height]] ‘Nature. Enjoy. Austria’. We know who had it printed. Now one of you has to explain to me, my colleagues, your lawyers from the rural area: When do you finally take responsibility? You say there are 150 percent beef production in Austria. It's all right! I've never believed that number before. I never believed there was a Butterberg and a milk lake. But then you have to explain to me why every menu is now invited to the regional wild and roast weeks – I have been invited myself – and you get Argentine beef to eat. [[Keep a vacuum-packed piece of meat in height]] Argentine beef, just around the corner! But it is likely that this can be explained again with Marrakech, because from there we have heard that air traffic is healthier than meat production. I didn't know that kerosene is a biospray that is scattered when flying. We have 3,000 flights in Austria, Minister. You're causing a lot. And now it's like you get Argentine beef on the menu it is being offered. That's not enough. [[Keep another piece of vacuum-packed meat in height]] Of course we also have the domestic deer. It's perfectly clear, we have the land hunting association. The former minister Pröll is multiculti, he is not only at the casinos Austria, but he is also a state hunter. Respect! And now all the innkeepers are recruited with the wild from their home territory. It's wonderful! I just have a problem: Now the deer comes from New Zealand, from New Zealand, which is 13,000 miles away. [[Keep the vacuum-packed piece of meat in height]] It's all wonderful! So what we have together, ladies and gentlemen, is actually the problem: hiding behind the government partner here, trying to speak the whole thing up: Everything is fine, everything is successful!, and then there is a desperate AMA marketing report. This is a subject of my own, which my previous speakers Jannach and Pirklhuber have already mentioned. There is no increase in funds, although food sovereignty is so important. In addition, the income situation is fatal, and there is already a 17 percent reduction in income in the fourth year. But you go here and say, All palettes! In the chapter on agriculture and the environment, everything is paletteti! You have to bring that together once! I compare this with the following picture: A farmer goes to his farm, the vipers are sick, the pigs are sick, the tractor is broken, and he says: Chef, next year we'll start into a successful future! It is a fatal state in which one has now brought agriculture. And that is, of course, a disadvantage for the entire economy. But it is particularly irresponsible to consumers. That can't be! And that's exactly what I'm criticizing here. I am at the budget where we see the problem we have. The budget is massively damaged – but not only the budget of agriculture alone, Mr Rupprechter, Mr Rupprechter, but the entire budget that the Minister of Finance has presented here! It is damaged because the purchasing power is lost because the important small farms are lost because the important small craftsmanships have to close because they no longer get orders. That's the main problem! And I've mentioned this many times here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In this connex one must also say: These are the 280 000 people who like the host have a seven-day week. And there is the most common thing at all: those who are at the very back of the pensions, but at the very beginning of working time. Because it is about the budget because it is about control measures and because it is about our consumers and our sustainable agriculture, which we are talking about and for which we are doing far too little, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30551	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30668	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30689	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! You cannot build a wall against climate change – for me, the most striking statement that has fallen within the framework of an interparliamentary conference at which COP22 in Marrakech fell. The statement was made in response or in connection with the outcome of the presidential election in the USA. And with this we reached the UG 43, the environmental budget, which is estimated at just over €600 million in 2017. That's one thing far too little, the other just enough. However, the Federal Minister announced in advance a 100 million € heavy climate promotion package, which will be available in addition. This package is to be financed from reserves already released by the Federal Minister for Finance. Three priorities have been mentioned here: thermal renovation, electromobility and renewable energy sources for which these €100 million are to be used. This will be done in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, according to the information provided by the Federal Minister for the Environment. The details should be in preparation. He spoke about an Article-15a agreement with the corresponding mechanisms in the construction of housing. Federal Minister! We hope for a rapid and complete implementation of this announced package and would like us to see sustainable, high-quality green jobs created. The climate and energy strategy has already been a subject in connection with the first reading, and the Green Climate Fund has been addressed in this context. It was announced to increase the donation with the participation of the economy and the federal states. Federal Minister! I can quote you. They have said in the Committee that their efforts have not been very successful here. I can kindly ask you to step up your efforts here again. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30730	Next speaker: Mr Walter Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30754	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I could now ask you, Mr Federal Minister, provocative: How satisfied are you with your environmental budget? Of course, I know your answer. But it's not us from the FPÖ! We from FPÖ are not satisfied with this environmental budget. It has a minus of 3.1 percent. If the inflation rate of 1.7 percent is still calculated, we know how precarious the environmental situation is – the budgetary situation is well aware!; we're talking about the budget. You, Minister Rupprechter, signed the agreement in Paris. We all know that homework has not yet been done, that this has not been taken into account in the budget. The first measure I heard from the media today, namely the € 72 million on electromobility, is a positive approach – well noticed! Only: If we mention Marrakech again – as you do, Mr Feichtinger – I must say: I would not overestimate this, because this negative award we have received is the climate negative prize “Fossil of the day”, something where I mean that you have to leave the church in the village. Then: Who grants such awards,... [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Mr Haimbuchner also got them!]] Yes, everything is right and beautiful, it does not matter to me personally, even to our group. The final effect is to make environmental policy in the interests of citizens. This is the decisive thing for us, because climate policy should be sustainable in the final effect and should define the objectives for the future! Mr Federal Minister, I am surprised at your press release yesterday, in which you demand a diesel tax increase. I don't know if that's agreed with your coalition partner, because we've been in Austria... [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] There's an issue on this from you. We have the second highest tax rate in the EU in Austria. This diesel tax would affect 2.8 million cars. Of course, these 2.8 million cars – every second one is driving a diesel – would thin out the rural area, but we must avoid that. Our concern must be that there is no further thinning of the rural area. If I only take my home district, I see: 72% of the population come from the southeastern Styria, day by day. But in the Sunday speeches of the mayor and the Members of your group, it always says: We must resist this, we must stop it! And what happens in the final effect? - Nothing! You, Minister, now still want to burden citizens with further action. There are several sectors affected by this. This is transport, that is agriculture, more precisely agricultural diesel, as my colleague Jannach has said today. The agricultural diesel is an important requirement of us, it would be a discharge for agriculture. It would be high time to implement this requirement as well. But in the end, of course, it also concerns consumers who would have to expect higher prices. And we expressly reject that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the direction of the Greens who want to put forward today a motion for a resolution to tax diesel higher, it is said: We propose that the tax on mineral oils be allocated to the purpose of implying environmental measures accordingly. That would be a socially just path. Your plan, Mr Federal Minister, to continue taxing fossil fuels, where there are 739 000 households equipped with oil heating, would also result in a great burden on the population. We expressly reject that too! Mr. Federal Minister! We need new incentives for renewable energy. It is very important that there are tax reliefs in this area too. That is where we set very clear standards by saying: 10 percent, half the VAT rate on renewable energy! This would be an incentive for the economy and also an incentive for the environment. That would also be an essential point where you could start. And that's what we're asking you to do. On the tax plans you have and the measures you have announced in relation to them, we say quite clearly: No to raise diesel tax and no to a tax on fossil fuels! This would be grossly negligent, anti-bourgeois and also an attack on the Austrian economy. You should be aware of that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30815	The next speaker is Mr Juryenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30836	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! To negotiate agriculture and the environment in a chapter is, I believe, very, very striking, because in both cases it is about sustainability. It is currently important in environmental protection and in agriculture for sustainability, namely for farms, for the economic capacity and the viability of farms. We have called for a measure which provides for the exemption of holdings from payment for the fourth quarter of social security, for all Austrian farms, and not only for one part. But what has now been pushed into Parliament by the Minister of Social Affairs Stäger with a perfidious game as a Trojan horse by government decision is really not to be surpassed. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The aim is to bring a cone into the peasantry. This is class struggle of the worst variety. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] If I also see the release of the SPÖ club in which it stands, the big farmers can afford to pay, then I have to say: Yeah, who's a big farmer for you then? – Are these medium-sized enterprises that are still on the rounds or hardly any more? Do you know what 13,000 euros mean? Most of the businesses in the future or of the businesses in Austria are not present. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner.]] There is a game being played by the Chamber of Workers over the Minister to the Parliament. But I'll tell you one thing: We will cut the Trojan horse small here in Parliament and only then give the consent of the Austrian Farmers' Federation when all Austrian farmers are really relieved here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] You should take a lot more care of other topics! In the “Kronen Zeitung” your representatives in the Chamber of Labour complain that food prices rise by 25 percent. You should also know that it is mainly labour costs along the value chain that cause these prices, but certainly not producer prices. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you want this from Social Democracy, it's just too schizophrenic to the...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30912	Member of the European Parliament,
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30928	I'll take it back! Schizophrenia is a disease picture.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30951	Mr President, you have said that you are taking back this expression. I would really ask that we be moderated in the further debate in terms of expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e30966	Of course, I take it back with regret, because it's a disease picture. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But it is a two-headedness or a branch view, on the one hand, to stand for just wages and on the other hand to demand that prices be lowered. This can only happen to the producer. Or do you want states such as Northern or Eastern Germany, where employees such as temporary workers and carcasses are held in slaughterhouses? It can't be! Here we need a special solution for Austrian agriculture. I also call for this absolutely, because we cannot compare farmers and farmers in Austria with other sectors. This is an explicit sector, and our table is covered by these rulers every day. We should not forget that either!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31007	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31028	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I was at the climate conference last week in Marrakech and I would like to tell everyone that I am willing to tell you about it on occasion in detail. It is really very encouraging to see how high the commitment to international climate protection is, how many companies there are on site, present their solutions and use climate protection for new business opportunities. Our clubwoman Eva Glavischnig said it yesterday: That's where the mail is going! I would now like to use a quote from American Foreign Minister John Kerry, who said in his speech: “No nation will do well if it sits on the sides, disabled its new business”. I'm afraid Austria's sitting on the sideline with this environmental budget. We need massive investments in environmental protection and climate protection. If we do not, it is a damage to the climate, but above all a damage to the Austrian economy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How does our federal government stand up? – This red line, which was once planned: gradually a slight increase! [[Keeping a panel in height, on which a chart can be seen, showing a red line rising upward and a blue line falling down]] Not enough, but okay. What is now planned is this blue line, a successive reduction in the environmental budget. [[pointing to the descending blue line]] Minister, I don't know, maybe something was confused. This is actually the development that our CO2 emissions have to take, but not the environmental budget. That must be exactly the other way round. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have already had to accept massive reductions in all climate protection instruments last year, so that, for example, the internal environmental support measures for oil heating can no longer be financed. In the next few years, however, we must help 800 000 households to switch from oil heating to another system. This budget will not make it possible. We therefore urgently need an amendment, and I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a steering measure that is highly necessary. A second completely incomprehensible reduction relates to the hydroecological measures. There are obligations that we must comply with the Water Framework Directive. The ÖVP always pleads very much for hydropower. I also like hydropower, but right now you're shortening the means. [[Abg. Schönegger:... in Graz!]] This means that the hydropower operators and the municipalities have these obligations, and you are massively damaging the hydropower operators because you are no longer making any money available. [[Abg. Schönegger: Graz!]] We have also prepared a request which my colleague Georg Willi will later make. Mr Minister, you have today presented a proposal to promote electromobility together with Minister of Transport Lightenfried. That's okay. Last week or before the climate conference, you have already announced a 100-million-€ environmental package or whatever you want. I think it's a bit strange: We're negotiating the budget here right now. No single point is presented where this is anchored in the budget, how this is going to happen, where more resources actually come from. The statement made by Minister of Finance Schelling at the Budget Committee meetings was that there is no request for rescheduling. They will not be able to resolve deposits forever. It does not help us, we need to change something structurally in the budget. We cannot dissolve once and for all and then motify something somewhere just so that we can present something in the media. If we take the challenges of climate change seriously, then it takes serious changes, namely that this path is CO2 emissions and not the environmental budget that the environmental budget goes up. [[Again keeping the panel in height and pointing to the descending blue line]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to conclude with a quote from Winston Churchill, who – freely translated – once said: It's not always enough when we do our best, sometimes we just have to do what is necessary. – This environmental budget is neither our best, nor the best for Austria, and it is certainly not what is needed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Austria urgently needs an independent, committed and correspondingly equipped Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31136	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31232	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31260	Madam President. Minister! My dear Colle-ginnings, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a brief look at the speech by the honourable Member. This was a totally unacceptable and inappropriate criticism of the Chamber of Labour. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your colleague, you should know what task the Chamber of Workers has. [[Abg. Jewellery: The Chamber of Workers should know this!]] The Chamber of Labour has the task of representing the interests of colleagues and colleagues and consumers in Austria. It is not all right for an ÖVP member here to deal with the interests of the workers. That's disqualifying, dear colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: New elections! You just need to make a request!]] [[Abg. Höbart: Let's vote!]] On the budget, ladies and gentlemen: It is a balanced budget, and it is important that a number of investments are planned, in particular in the UK 42, which deals with the chapter on agriculture, forestry and water management. Reasonable it is natural to avoid unnecessary costs. This is the highest principle of administration. However, this must under no circumstances be the cause of those people working for the Republic. I have already delivered an opinion on the situation of Romanian colleagues on behalf of the Federal Forests during the last plenary session. Deficient working conditions, remuneration far away from the collective contract, lack of security equipment was revealed by the ORF “Report”. I would like to thank the Minister responsible very much at this point. In the last few days and weeks, at least I assume, there have been a number of discussions between the responsible parties of the Federal Forests – Supervisory Board, the Executive Board – and you. It has actually been done in this area in favour of colleagues. Thank you very much for that. However, I would also like to mention that this situation in Tyrol is not, of course, a case in point. There are still such circumstances. I think we must do everything we can to ensure that there are fair conditions in the world of work in Austria that there are just wages and salaries. It is important – as a clear word to the responsible finance minister – that we receive more staff in the area of police, especially in the area of financial police, so that these conditions are met. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31333	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31355	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The environmental budget is the subject. It can be summarized relatively salopp: It always goes in one direction, it is saved, and the budget is free from the ambition to implement sustainable new, innovative solutions in Austria in any form. I now take a few examples because my speaking time is relatively short: It has been announced that there is a climate package of €100 million, which of course is planned outside the budget. The package has therefore not been submitted to us for decision, it is financed from reserves. That is to say, all the ambitions regarding the Paris climate agreement are not in the budget, but are financed by a savings deposit, with Members unable to discuss it, at least not during the budget debate. It is also exciting that the Ministry of the Environment is constantly baffling itself with measures that do not fall within the field of the Ministry of the Environment. Classical example: From the point of view of the BMVIT, it has just been communicated that there will be an electric mobility package. That's €72 million, and from my point of view, it's a lowered investment because we know it didn't work in Germany. We support people who want to buy a Tesla around €80 000. They only pay €76 000. The claim is that they also have the €80 000. There are much better examples, such as Norway, where there has been a real benefit for electric mobility in the road transport regulations, free parking and many other topics. This example has been rejected. A third point about the budget is to set targets for the future that has already been achieved in the past. Classical example: Last year, 25 000 electric vehicles were set as targets, 32 000 have already been reached. Now there is still a big initiative, and you continue with the classic idea that you want to reach 5,000 new cars in the coming year. That means: The ambitions are going down. The objectives have already been partially achieved in the past. This also applies to the sales of the export industry. This also applies to the number of employees in the environmental economy. There's not much going on. This is one of the ministries where you can dance under the ambit of Limbo. One last word on the speech by my colleague Juryenschlager: We have understood this in such a way that you do not accept this current package, which concerns the support of farmers. You have the support of NEOS, you can agree with us on this package. The essential point is – I would like to say that in all directions: Why prefer an industry? I have full understanding of this group. But what about the tourist establishments? What about all the other service companies, with all the other economic operators who have just had bad years? What about the employees, the workers who also have real wage losses? They make a package for a population group and forget the rest. That's really levelless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31409	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31430	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate on the agricultural budget is, of course, about financing all the needs so that our country looks the way it looks, and so that your table can be covered daily with fresh, delicious products from Austria. It is about preserving the less favoured areas, the miners, our environmental situation. [[Abg. Steinbichler: (a tablet with a photography in height) So looks!]] Unfortunately, we have no means in the budget to help farmers if the markets fail and prices fail. Today, the income situation in agriculture is dramatically bad, in individual regions, agricultural income has fallen to almost half of the level a few years ago. This is not a perspective, and we must show that we are helping farmers with the existing possibilities in such a way that they feel that Austria knows how they are doing. One way to do this is to pay off social security costs. If it is now possible not to demand the fourth rate if farmers do not have to pay it, then this is a relief from a cost pressure at a time when the money is scarce anyway. [[Abg. Steinbichler: This is not agricultural policy! On the subject!]] If that succeeds, it's a help. The aid must be implemented with its own possibilities, and we have managed well in our social security scheme and therefore reserves. These reserves must now be used in such a way that farmers are given the opportunity not to have to pay. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You as the chief representative are against the small farmers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the Minister for Social Affairs has tabled a proposal which is not social. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jannach.]] This is a proposal that divides and shares farmers and does not take into account how to deal with this issue. It must be treated in such a way that all farmers will be granted this exemption this month. [[Abg. Steinbichler: This is not agricultural policy!]] We will fight for it, here, in this Parliament, with all of you. We'll give you the opportunity to help you make sure that all that you love to talk about works. [[Abg. Jannach: But the Minister says...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Preiner, it cannot be satisfactory for you if half of the farmers in Burgenland are unable to make use of the social security reserves. That can't fit for you! - But not in Burgenland! [[Abg. Preiner: There are 80 percent...!]] Half in Burgenland will pay, and in Lower Austria a third will not be relieved. That's not all right, and we'll get together to make it fit. How to say so beautifully: If it does not fit, it will be made appropriate. – We will work together, and I ask you all to take into account what it is all about. [[Abg. Jannach: Were you...! Promise and break!]] We all know: We want Austrian food, we need Austrian farmers. I'll tell you: Youth needs a perspective and implementation. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You are responsible for poor agricultural policy! For 20 years!]] It's good if you taste every day. It is also important to know where the products come from. [[Abg. Jannach: Promise and break!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Yes, it is good to know that in Austria we have a agriculture that brings quality. It is good to know that we have this agriculture, but it is also important to protect it, to help it and not to split it, but to appreciate it, to show its respect and to really... [[Abg. Jannach: Get away from the speaker's desk!]] – Mr Jannach, don’t be so important! Ladies and gentlemen, farmers can be helped if we do so together. I'll call you at that! And let it remain to Mr. Jannach! - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Chapter Social!]] [[15:54]] President Doris Bures next speaker is Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31649	Madam President. Minister! What does not fit is made appropriate? – I would be pleased if that were the case with the environmental budget, because I do not think that would be right. Mr Minister, we are unfortunately not going to be winners with this budget. It is a fact that there will again be about €20 million in cuts, even though this has been fought again and again in the Committee. It is said that there were funds from the EU, and this time too, reserves are to be dissolved. However, both are not estimated in the budget. I have tried to sum up some contradictions in the environmental sector: On the one hand, the Minister, together with the Minister of Finance, is promoting the greening of the tax system and CO2 charges at EU level, and on the other hand, flights are to be halved by 2018. This is a contradiction for me. A contradiction is also that we have still not recognized the following: We hear from the committees, we hear from the Minister that we are a country of presentation, an environmental model country. On the other hand, we receive the negative price in Marrakech. I think it's really time to wake up and see reality in the eye. We have also been told in the Committee on Budgets that we are far ahead of the energy transition. On the other hand, we continue to promote oil heating and have a huge wait loop for eco electricity expansion. That at the tempo is also such a thing: Since Easter, the assessment of the eco-strom novelle has been negotiated. In the meantime, eco electricity operators complain of lack of planning and investment security. Mr Minister, you have also announced that you will extend the funding period for biogas installations this year. Today, concerned entrepreneurs are present here in Parliament, which I would also like to welcome very warmly. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and Greens.]] Maybe there's an answer from you today. The topic of Green Jobs is also often a bit of a definition matter: Green jobs should actually be there to create new jobs. Unfortunately, this area is also constantly being tricked and mottled. I would like to pick out an AK study, which included, for example, the production of low-energy and passive buildings in the environmental sector. In other words, the employees in the corresponding establishments suddenly had Green Jobs, although no new job was actually created. Then there is the administrative reform law. There is no continuous red thread to be seen. Laws in which an EU-related novel is still in place in the coming months are to be modernised. So this is not really a great escape forward, but only a small correction in advance. What always surprises me is that the expert committee's proposals, especially as regards administrative reform, are simply not really perceived and taken into account. That's also one thing I'm just questioning. If this new law comes, the public's participation and control rights in the environmental sector will be massively undermined. The aim is to make it more difficult for environmental organisations and environmental prosecutors to participate in procedures with this innovation. Even more limited areas of the Community are being created. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This not only contradicts the Constitution, it also contradicts European law and the Aarhus Convention. This means that the implementation of the programme will be slow. In my opinion, administrative reform should mean de-bureaucratisation and not de-democraticisation. With these environmental practices and with this budget, I am sorry to say that the challenges that we face in the field of the environment have definitely not grown, and I would like to refer here again to my first sentence: Perhaps there are possibilities to increase the environmental budget in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31716	Next, Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31738	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The rural area, the municipalities and the people who live and work there are very likely to be affected by the budget over and over again. The area comprises a wide range. This goes from the large farmers, often mentioned today, to the miners who are naturally dependent on promotions. Here I can make a sidestep: Mr. Federal Minister, you have announced to the Committee that you are very likely to support the work of the Federal Mining Institute and also to secure the budget for it. This is very important not only for rural areas but also for the whole area. The agricultural budget thus affects the people living in rural areas and thus the municipalities accordingly. This concerns, for example, broadband development, which also includes many economic aspects, and then all rural projects. It would be very desirable, Mr Federal Minister, if you could present to the National Council a list of projects that have already been set up. A number of things have been done in the financial compensation for the municipalities. The SPÖ succeeded for the first time in anchoring the task orientation in certain areas. It is true that the municipalities, which are actually responsible for these projects, receive the money directly. Such a pilot project is, for example, child care from zero to six years and also at primary level, in compulsory school. Other grants were also decided on in financial compensation, which are particularly important for local authorities and especially for rural areas. These are, for example, grants for the protection of railway crossings, for intercommunal cooperation, for support for migration and integration, and the formation of the Structural Funds should, of course, also work for local authorities. The ultimate effect is simply to maintain and improve the quality of life of the rural people. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31777	Next, Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31798	Madam President. Federal Minister! I thank you, by the way, for the class-warring words of the red-black government. But this will not be very helpful to farmers, because we have to expect today that just seven farmers have locked up their farms while we are talking here. We know: Some 239,000 farms once were, now we have 160,000 farms, and every year 2,000 farms die. That is, we are talking about a budget for 2 000 farms in the 2017 budget less than in 2016. But the Federal Minister for Finance has said something quite great. He said: There is €2.1 billion for agriculture. Especially in the current situation in which farmers had to take income losses for the fifth time in a row, this is really crazy! We also need to respect this: This is an impoverishing community, and we cannot always talk about large farmers. The Federal Minister also said: After all, every fifth job in the remote and downstream area is dependent on a farm. You should know that, too. By the way, the workers and employees of the red as well as the black half of the empire have to be aware of this. The Federal Minister has also said that it is about the cultural landscape. Now I have just heard: rural development. – Please, if the farmers die, then there is no rural development, because there are no people, then we have there destroyed landscapes like with us in the South Styria: every farm to, no school, no municipal office, no post, nothing more – that is the state! [[Call the SPÖ: Calm down!]] In the cities, you're in there. [[new call to the SPÖ]] Bring in some good stories, rather than practice class struggle! Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I would also like to be critical, for example of performance. Let's take a look at the situation in pig farming. The pig population in Austria has fallen. Why is that so? – The budget must intervene here so that pig farmers can live again and get a life perspective. Why does the Ministry not work to ensure, for example, that pig production in the EU is dripped, that every EU country has only as much as it needs for self-sufficiency. This would mean 3 percent less production, i.e. 15 percent more yield, for example. That would be good, too. We've heard about biogas plants today. That's what I'm asking: Who brought the farmers in ten, thirteen years ago, without knowing that this would be a deficit business? [[Abg. Jannach: [O Muhammad] There they sit!]] We should also discuss this. Those who are responsible for this need to be given the floor today, because the farmers are really the poor. I know people who are most likely losing all their goods now because they have to sell their fields, regardless of the premium they get. I just can't do that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When do we create clear targets for farmers so that they have greater legal certainty? Now we come to the next point, because “top agrar” has written that the FPÖ is for the piglets castration: This is a mistake. It was a request for a text. But I'm suing: Why not inform farmers that there has long been a proposal in the Ministry of Health concerning freedom of pain in the castration? There are several proposals for solutions. Mr Eßl, you are also in the Commission: Everyone knows this, and it will most likely come soon; that is nothing new. It's about keeping the animals pain free. It's a story. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So please stick to the truth: We know, not at the last moment say, the others are all so evil, and now it happens! My speaking time is already running out, I'll say it anyway: There are still some other misdeeds we should talk about. One is animal welfare. In animal welfare, of course, farmers also have to move, and they do. But something must not happen despite the animal welfare, namely that we surrender and lose our production abroad. The breeding lines already have to stay with us, this is about own production. It is true that our nutritional quality and food sovereignty should be important. That is why I advocate a partial renationalisation of agriculture. 9.5 million people – as many as we will soon be, as we heard from Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein today – also need something good. Our farmers have a good future when we look inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31874	Next, Mr Magistrate. Smoking for the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31896	Madam President. Federal Minister! I actually wanted to focus on the environmental budget, but I have now been following with interest the debate that concerns our farmers. If one accuses colleagues of taking action against the workers, I think it is simply a misinterpretation that is not permitted; but it is legitimate to stand up in this House for the interests of farmers in that country. I myself come from a federal state, which is still very much rural, from the federal state of Tyrol. And if one hears that, for example, 50 percent of the farmers in Burgenland are going through this scheme and we are always talking about social justice in Parliament, then it is quite legitimate for all of us to reassess ourselves completely intrusively once more and see if we do not get a solution. My previous speaker said it: In the case of animal welfare, farmers must move, but on this point perhaps Parliament should move, then you get together somewhere, and then the thing would be cleared out of the world. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] I simply do not like to play groups such as workers, entrepreneurs and farmers against each other, there can only be one common thing. But to the environmental budget: I believe that this environmental budget is really an investment programme in a viable, environmentally friendly Austria. It is perfectly clear that environmental protection, of course, only works cross-border. The Austrian environmental budget will not save the entire environment, but it will require cooperation at national, European and global level. The Minister has shown in Paris what can be achieved. I believe that this should give courage to take the right steps in environmental protection. [[Abg. Brunner:... cuts?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, it is always an interplay of economy and ecology. Your colleague, Refuserstorfer, has already said this: Of course, Green jobs are quite, very important in this area, because this promotes the economic location, but also economics and ecology. In this sense, I would like to congratulate the Minister on this budget in the field of the environment. Investments are safe, and we invest in a life-worthy Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31938	Next, Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e31970	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make the following request made by my colleague Christiane Brunner: [[Quoted print version removed]] So much for the request. Mr. Minister, you are entitled to have a positive effect. If I imagine that the budget is the policy cast into figures, I wonder: Where is it blessed when, in the light of the Paris climate agreement, payments in the chapter Environment will fall from € 679 million in 2015 to € 608 million in the coming year? This has caused Parliament's budget service to write to us – I quote: ‘From the budgetary point of view, the aim would be to increase funding in the forward-looking field of environmental and climate protection’. So you're going to put something that isn't acceptable. Mr Minister, you were now twice as a representative of the Federal Government at the environmental climate conferences: in Paris, where it was about the great treaty of Paris, and now in Marrakech. All the more so, it is your obligation to ensure that Austria achieves the climate objectives. Let's see what happened: From 1990 to today, Austria has not been able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions – unlike other EU countries. We're keeping up with 1990's, that's embarrassing. There are currently 78.7 million tonnes of CO2. The latte is minus 60 percent by 2030. If we want to achieve this, you finally have to press on the gas. I now come to speak of an energy form that I now want to concentrate on in my speech: It's the wind power. When you look at the development of wind power in Austria, you can see: It's a success story. We currently have 1,194 wind turbines with a total power of 2,635 megawatts, which generate 5.7 billion kilowatt hours and can thus supply 40 percent of Austrian households with electricity. They save 3.7 million tons of CO2, which is as much as 40 percent of cars in Austria – a success story. Only the waiting space is filled by those who want to build wind turbines because investors, operators and planners do not know how to proceed. You would have it in your hand and it is your responsibility to ensure that the wind turbines in Austria go a little further. This can only happen if we finally create a novel to the Ecostrom Act, but there's nothing going on. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Because the Greens are blocking the state government!]] – Mr Minister, you are blocking the reds, the reds are blocking you. This is an inner-coalitionary power game. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Please, the Oekostrom Act is still in charge of the federal government. This is federal affairs and has nothing to do with the countries at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is about the ridiculous eco electricity contribution of 120 € per household, which is 10 € per month. It is also true that installations fall partly out of support. There will be money free again, and it is your obligation to ensure that these many wind turbine operators, who now have to sit in the waiting room, finally get security about how it goes on. It is your duty to offer them a perspective and to finally send these small ecostrom novels, which we need to review. I know from the red side that she's ready for it – now it's up to you. There is the famous proverb: “When the wind of change blows, they build one wall and the other windmills.” – They are currently on the best way to build walls. I can only ask you: Allow windwheels to be built, because the wind sends no bill!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32085	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32161	The next item is Mrs Ecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32182	Madam President. Minister! The report of the Ministry of Agriculture praises the quality of our agriculture. The mining share is particularly highlighted by about 40 percent. However, we are happy to forget that these farmers, first and foremost the miners, deserve less and less. We've heard it's been this way for years, and that's terrifying. The situation of micro-enterprises is terrifying, with not necessarily too little money, but it is simply unfairly distributed. Miners' income, for example, is 14 percent below the average income. I am convinced, Minister, that we are doing good work in many areas in the agricultural sector. There is an excellent budget, for example, because we invest in broadband development and thus support rural areas – a great story. However, in the area of small-structured agriculture, I think there is still a lot to be done, as we unfortunately follow. That's why I've been calling for a rethink for many years. People belong to this sector promoted, jobs, and certainly not hectares and large businesses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For example, organic farms are doing better than conventional farms, as much is done by your side – thank you very much for that I really appreciate. 18 percent of Austrian agriculture has already changed to organic farming. I still wish myself Salzburg conditions. For me as a social democrat, the 18 percent are simply far too few, because people do great work in these areas, they work environmentally friendlyly, they produce excellent organic products, and that should be supported with all their strength. Let's just stick to the environment: Mr. Minister, in the last few days, once again the glyphosate values have been exceeded, this time in Carinthia. Unfortunately, although the EU has not banned this probably carcinogen, what prevents you, Minister, from pronouncing a total ban? Many communities, many countries make it. The Salzburg Landtag, for example, calls for a federal ban, especially at the request of social democracy. Minister, forbid Glyphosate! They themselves say that Austrian agriculture does not need it. Cancer-stimulating agents do not belong to our food, but to the poison cabinet! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32225	Mrs Mühlberghuber's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32249	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The budget for agriculture and forestry will be slightly increased in 2017, but mainly for the administration. According to the Federal Minister, the objectives are to strengthen rural areas, to safeguard agricultural production and to train young people. It means literally in the guide – I quote –: “We are committed to high-quality education and training in agricultural and forestry professions as an essential contribution to the preservation and protection of our habitat.” – Even the subject of equality was thought. In accordance with the newly introduced Objective 5, the aim is to ensure a balanced gender relationship among pupils in agricultural and forestry schools. – So far as the theory. The reality, however, looks quite different in Lower Austria. For example, six of the 18 agricultural schools in Lower Austria will be closed. Those affected in Gaming, Ottenschlag, Poysdorf, Sooß, Unterleitung and Tulln. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a completely wrong strategy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, the technical school in Tulln is up to now the only Austrian who has already trained farmers in bioenergy generation by school. It brings millions of funding to Tulln over EU projects and is also the optimal basis for further training at professional universities and at BOKU. It is therefore a disastrous signal to young people, to farmers, to close agricultural schools and thus to put the future of farms at risk. Mr Federal Minister, I therefore call on you to reverse these plans and to maintain the operation of all 18 schools. Agricultural education must be worth something to us!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32294	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32316	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The agricultural budget 2017 can be described as multifunctional. On the one hand, measures are being taken to maintain global management, on the other hand, rural development is accentuated. It will also invest in climate and environmental protection. But I think we have to analyze the budget a little. Of the €2.139 billion, not all the money goes directly to the farmers, but it is simply about investing in various materials, for example € 110 million in broadband expansion. Also in the protection against natural hazards € 200 million is invested, and of course also in the expansion of biomass. The agricultural budget is not in a position to compensate for the currently difficult income situation in agriculture. However, the agricultural budget is able, I say, to provide support when I think that it is possible for the first time to introduce a harvest insurance scheme, which we have experienced everywhere in recent years, to be protected from weather conditions. Da_te We must support our agricultural holdings in order not to endanger their existence. For services provided, € 693 million will be paid directly to the farmers. However, I believe that we have to emphasize this very clearly – we have an environment-friendly and nature-oriented agriculture, our cultural landscape is maintained, our soil and our water are naturally protected. This money also compensates for natural difficulties. With the agricultural budget 2017, it should be possible to maintain, even in a difficult time, the agricultural structures, to maintain the high quality of life that our country offers, but also to maintain the high quality of food. Austria is a showland with regard to organic farming. Austrian food has a high priority. Overall, we should not always be divided; this budget brings, overall, more value added to our country, secures jobs and prosperity. In this sense, thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for this balanced and stable budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32361	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32382	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! The debate on agriculture is always very exciting, always a very stimulating one. I think this is very good on the one hand, because agriculture and its problems are moving and touching. That's crucial. On the other hand, it is also very unfortunate that we are already seeing for the fourth year in a row that agriculture has lost its income. The situation is really very difficult. The situation for farmers, especially in rural areas, has become relatively unbearable because the income situation no longer fits. There is, of course, a problem to be solved, of course. What does politics have to do? – That’s why there is politics: to counter it. If I have heard the debate today about the discharge of farmers concerning the adoption of the fourth quarterly social security contribution, and then above all the prevailing differences, I am very surprised. On the one hand, it is right and reasonable to relieve farmers and not to pay the social security contribution in the last quarter. That's right! However, it is also true that this measure does not benefit all farmers and often the medium-sized farms under the wheels. The ÖVP-Mandatare have rightly criticized this. I would like to remind you of the statements made by Mr Schmuckenschlager, but also by Mr Auer, who correctly held this. In this respect, I am only surprised by one, Mr. Minister: You have negotiated this compromise with the coalition partner SPÖ, and you yourself were satisfied with this compromise. You have also mentioned a viable compromise. If I may quote from the media: ‘Now it’s fixed: Our farmers are effectively relieved,” confirms Federal Minister Andrä Rupprechter today, Tuesday, the successful agreement on the discharge package [...].” But I really don't know this anymore, Mr. Minister. You say it was successful. Your ÖVP-Mandatare says this agreement does not fit. We say about the FPÖ – that was what Mr Jannach held as the first speaker – that agreement does not fit, because many farmers, namely the middle construction, come under the wheels. So come to the government! If you need someone to bring about a reasonable scheme for rural areas, for all farmers: You have our support. Make the request, dear ÖVP-Mandatare, that the middle class can also be supported by farmers! We will agree. Let's take the sample of nails for the rural area! If we make the sample of nails for our farmers, then we will see what follows here in the House: whether this is not just hot air, what is spoken here and again, but whether something is actually achieved! We from the Freedom Party are ready to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32431	Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter has made a statement next time. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32452	Madam President. High house! I would like to comment on both of these, on UG 42 and on UG 43. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the opposition for the praises of this budget, which have behaved in a number of ways. You have, in principle, repeated the debate that we already had in the Committee on Budgets. A lot of new things have not really come to light in this plenary debate today. Well: The Federal Estimate for the UG 42 follows the consolidation course. At €2.14 billion, we are €3 million above the budget proposal for this year – a small increase, so a small increase has been possible. The focus in the agricultural, water management and forestry sector of the Federal Project is on the sustainable development of rural areas, support for land-based agriculture, protection against natural hazards, safeguarding water resources, strengthening forest management and training. In the field of agriculture, the main issue is the implementation of the CAP reform, which has been reflected in the figures, and the development and development of the rural development programme. EU funds amount to €1.3 billion for 2017. The priority in rural development is in particular the development of organic farming, the agricultural environment programmes, of course in less favoured areas, in particular the compensation in mountain areas, as well as investment measures. We have a total rural development programme of €1.1 billion, with € 850 million of federal and EU funds in the Federal estimates. Respectable national resources are concentrated in the national budgets. In the area of market regulation measures, i.e. the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, this is in particular the direct payments paid at €693 million, which is essentially the single farm premium, and €6 million is intended for milk producers, in particular for the voluntary withdrawal of milk. There is only a small amount of funding in the area of exclusively national funding of €16 million, i.e. those measures which are not part of the co-financed rural development policy. [[Abg. Steinbichler:... You can't explain that to anyone!]] The focus on protection against natural hazards, sustainable forest management and water management is a global budget of € 207 million. These funds will be supplemented by €32 million in the context of the implementation of the disaster fund. In particular, measures are planned to protect settlements and infrastructure in the field of wildlife and avalanche cultivation, where, together with the federal states, we consistently continue the path towards the climate change adaptation strategy. Water conservation, forest conservation, forest planning, forest development are the other priorities in this global budget. The third very important focus is education and training: 12 percent of the UG 42 is actually intended for training and further training. At the same time, € 101 million is intended for the higher agricultural and forestry schools. It's eleven schools. We do not close a site either, on the contrary, we are building out and investing in this area, and we also support the cost of the agricultural schools, especially for the national teachers, from my ressort budget at €42.4 million. In the field of rural development, there are also 16 million € for training and training measures. Overall, the budget in UG 42 meets the requirements for a solid basis to give Austrian agriculture and rural areas a stable framework in difficult times and to give them positive prospects for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: That's not true!]] But let me also address the current debate on the short-term relief measures needed for domestic agriculture in view of the dramatic income development. Indeed, the debate repeatedly focused on the discount on social security contributions for the last quarter of 2016. After long negotiations, the Austrian Federal Government agreed yesterday on a government template of the Social Minister for the actual reimbursement of social security contributions for the last quarter of 2016. I have contributed to this decision, which, however, provides for a differentiation with a basis of assessment of €2 350, in the sense of a total compromise, but does not want to highlight that it does not correspond to what we have requested; we wanted support for all, a fair compensation for all the farms concerned, especially in favour of all farmers who are to receive this refund. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Promise!]] I have, as has been said, contributed to this compromise in the Federal Government, because we have the basis for parliamentary negotiations here too. I do not want to hide that I was not 100% satisfied with this compromise, just as it was addressed. Of course, it is now important, as the farmers' representatives have said, to develop and improve this government template in the sense of a living living parliamentaryism, in order to actually achieve a fair balance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am very pleased that it will be possible – as has been said by various representatives of the representatives of the opposition parties – until the decision-making process has been completed. In this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Let me now turn to the UG 43, the Federal estimates on the environment. We also implement the budget approach fully within the meaning of the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020. We implement the consolidation path, but at the same time provide sufficient resources for the main environmental and climate objectives within the framework of implementation. The Federal estimates, as it was said, provide €608 million for the areas of climate protection and energy efficiency within the framework of the proven instruments of environmental promotion in the country, for the KLI € 130 million, in the field of waste management and waste reconditioning €67 million, in the area of settlement water management €342 million and in the field of nature conservation, national parks, biodiversity €12.5 million. In addition – and that was always my stated goal – we can also provide funds from the EU funds in co-financing. [[Abg. Brunner: They've always been there!]] In the field of EAFRD and ERDF, € 120 million is planned for the period from 2017 to 2020, i.e. in addition to the Federal Estimate, we can provide € 30 million for environmental and climate policy measures in the coming year. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Rossmann.]] In addition, I have already made it clear in the Committee that the Austrian Federal Government is planning a climate protection offensive through the resolution of reserves of €100 million in the coming year and in 2018. [[Abg. Brunner: Where's that? The Minister of Finance knows nothing!]] And we also reached agreement in the Federal Government yesterday on the government proposal on the environmental promotion law. For this purpose, the legal bases have also been implemented. We will hold the parliamentary debate here in the House – I assume, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mrs Brunner. [[Abg. Brunner: The budget will not be negotiated there!]] The water ecological measures you are referring to are also provided for in this UFG. The focus of the Austrian Federal Government's climate protection offensive is on renewable energy sources, expansion of thermal renovation and e-mobility. I have just presented our e-mobility strategy with Federal Minister Jörg Leichtfried. In the next two years there will be additional €72 million, together with the automotive importers. These are the two years, next and next year, in which in the field of e-mobility actually 1 billion Austrian schilling, if you like, will be implemented. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On the question raised: My declared objective is, of course, that this resolution of reserves is also reflected in the budget figures, especially in the long-term budget framework that we need to adapt in spring. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32594	The next item is the report by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32616	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I believe that we are unisono agreed on what the value- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We also agree that they need, of course, support, and we also agree on unisono when it comes to funding from the Republic of Austria, namely the Federation, into the agricultural areas. There is already a budget from the federal government of at least 25 per cent in the field of agricultural support; if one still expects country support and EU support, then we already reach a quota of 42 per cent in terms of agriculture. But where we are no longer in agreement, there are so little games going on, what Mr Schultes and also Mr Schmijdenschlager have said today. On the one hand, we were called schizophrenics, and on the other hand, it was said: “If it is not appropriate, it will be made appropriate.” – I would like to point out, Mr Schultes, that after this compromise on social security contributions has been reached, your minister has said what has been decided unanimously in the Council of Ministers – and I can only support these words – that this is a reasonable compromise. Then you can't go to the pult here and ask for a renegotiation. There's nothing going on at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second is – and of course I have to give Mr Ecker the right: We would have enough potential in agriculture, we would only have to get away from land support, namely job promotion. See, and that's exactly what comes from your clientele! Every day seven, eight, nine farms are closed. If the bill were true as you bring it, we would probably have more farmers in Austria than employed or self-employed workers. So the bill can't go on. Once again: away from the area promotion, into the workplace promotion – and then you will see how you deal with your budget. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of FPÖ and Greens and of the Agg. Steinbichler.]] One point that is very important to me, Mr Minister, is the wood industry in Austria. You know very well that we already have 42 percent imports in the wood industry. You know the problem very well, you know that there are certain areas where we are growing. In other words, we do not have our own forestry that brings the wood that we need in our industry. And you look forward to doing so, watching imports rise and our own products actually rot in the forests. We're not playing with that anymore. I call on you to act accordingly and really to do so so that the economy can live as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32676	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32697	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Finance Act 2017 – but the marriage between ÖVP and SPÖ is of course not very harmonious, we have now come back to it. Mr Schellhorn, you said earlier in your speech that European agriculture is on the right track. I do not think that is the case, European agriculture is on a bad path. The budget includes €2.138 billion for agriculture, forestry and water management. Most of this has already been mentioned by the Minister, €1,768 billion, flows into agriculture and rural areas – a very important factor. And, Minister, it is of course important that the money is also there; that is out of question. This means that € 2.6 million will benefit the forestry sector and the prevention and prevention of natural hazards. Minister! Again and again, in the Green Report and now again, we are talking about strengthening the rural area. Dear friends! I believe that it is absolutely necessary to strengthen rural areas, and it is also very important that these financial resources, this amount is used to prevent natural hazards, so that the population's habitat is protected from natural hazards. Another major concern has already been raised today, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: mining plants. Mining plants do great things, not just what is going on in tourism, and must be supported accordingly. And if this year the payout amounts are increased by 2 percent, that's, I think, not the yellow of the egg. It is very important that we support the farmers accordingly and that the funding is finally distributed fairly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32740	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32761	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For the environment, € 608 million is spent. We face major challenges particularly in the field of the environment. It is about increasing energy efficiency, adapting climate change, water supply – all this is important in the future. The Paris climate agreement was an international breakthrough in climate policy. We have already done a lot in Austria, whether in the field of renewable energy or also in the field of climate technology, where we are in the leading position, and this is also a global demand. Next, we are talking about e-mobility, which is now increasingly being promoted, and about a climate strategy that we are working out. Much of the environmental policy concerns agriculture. Agriculture actually contributes a lot to whether it concerns soils, biomass, biogas, which is a great potential for the environment and for value creation in its own country. We are pleased that we can get the money from Brussels, because this is especially what strengthens women in rural areas, because they are very many farms and thus represent an important factor that makes our rural area worth living. The farmers have already contributed a lot to the consolidation of the budget. The rapidly falling product prices, the weather and crop failures now require, of course, countermeasures. There must not be a debate of envy here, and we must not be allowed to go to farming – whether small or large, animal farmers or farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Therefore, the withdrawal of the SV contributions must apply to all and not only to some. Farmers make a big daily contribution to our food production, landscape design, energy and environment – thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32809	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32831	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I speak as someone who is not directly connected to agriculture but, as I mean, as we all live by it. Taking into account the structure of our country, agriculture, forestry and water management is an essential factor. In times of economic agreements, our structures and high standards are to be maintained and maintained. Not to be ignored are also the climatic changes, which lead to significant damage to various agricultural areas as well as to forestry and water management. It has the motto to apply: Prevention is better than healing!, with which the reference to the budget is made. Collateral damage cannot be financially covered by individuals or businesses, so that the Federal Government has access to the disaster fund. Water, our most precious asset, requires a financial effort to develop drinking water sources, clean lakes, rivers, wastewater pipelines and treatment. The economic situation in agriculture and forestry has led to numerous closures in the past. Income in agriculture is often not in proportion to the necessary effort. The society and the state have a duty to promote the local agriculture, forestry and water sector, while respecting the budget figures, and are committed to maintaining and further developing our high standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32865	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32886	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today is already the second day on which we are discussing the federal financial proposal for 2017 here in plenary, and we have already heard numerous proposals. On the one hand, many claims related to expenditure have been raised, and on the other hand it has been said over and over again – I would also like to mention this here –: Let's get the federal expenses soon! The expenditure also includes subsidies! We have just heard here in the heated debate on this point how different the positions are. Funding is also provided for in the area of urban water management. This is an area where canal, water and treatment plants are forced, but it is not only about construction and expansion, but also about the maintenance of this infrastructure. Today, €100 million is planned and €80 million will be reserved for next year. And, of course, the question is why €80 million has been reduced, because this money is necessary to enable our municipalities, the municipalities, the operators to invest in the necessary infrastructure. There is a study that requires more than €5.4 billion by 2021. And we also need to do a lot to keep our infrastructure intact. That is why we need this financial support. And it will not be easy in the future to secure this infrastructure even in the rural regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32923	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32944	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values listeners and listeners wherever you are! All these figures, data and facts that we are addressing, and forecasts that we are making in connection with the budget are not likely to last next year, because almost three hours ago, experts from the Deutsche Bank from Frankfurt reported that the euro is probably parity with the dollar. What that means for everyone, I think we can very well estimate it. I can say a few words to the budget in general, so that you can understand what I'm going to say after that. I received a text from a spectator yesterday late in the evening; he wrote: Apart from the fact that I have been given a verbal honor in the plenary session in the ORF, the debate is turning around again and again, because what is it all about? – Cover old debt with new debts. Economically, I keep asking myself the question: Who and what did the third-richest country in Europe go so far against the wall? - That's the quote. What I really see as a political problem for the future and as a problem to be dealt with, on the one hand, is the poverty of children and families in the foreseeable future, the so-called poverty of old, which undoubtedly stands in the house, and the working poor – and of course not to forget: the exponentially high public debt that grows like weeds. And who pays the bill? Or who has a positive proposal for this? – At the moment, I don't think anyone or nobody. Now to the environment: It is clear that the Ministry will receive €16 million less than in the previous year. It is also clear that the reduction and distribution are different and uneven. €3.3 million goes to agriculture, and minus €19.3 million will, as it were, cost the environment. It is true, however, as you have said, Mr Minister, that 100 million € will be available for appropriate climate protection measures from dissolved reserves. Minister Schelling has repeatedly used the word courage in connection with the budget, and he has defined courage with: making, implementing, doing. I also use the word courage, but I understand something else under it. I mean, People, the environment, animals, and for these divisions there is not much to see in this budget. I know, you can always demand a lot, but whether it actually succeeds is something else again. Some of you might know Harald Lesch. Harald Lesch has studied physics and philosophy and has been a member of the Bavarian Climate Council since 2015 – that is, someone who absolutely cannot be associated with conspiracy theories or similar thoughts. And exactly Harald Lesch, in his new book of politics, suggests that she is simply not willing to do something for the environment. When we hear what euphoria has been signed with the Paris climate agreement, and see what actually came out, that is more or less a shame. The fact that it is actually the will shows, for example, the statistics that give information on how many new cars are bought: Of these new cars, a large percentage of off-road vehicles are used only in the city. Or another example: 70,000 cubic meters of water are used for an 18-hole golf course in Spain, although the water is scarce at all, and, and, and. There are many other examples. I would like to point out that despite this euphoria in Paris, climate policy has also been forced into a so-called self-conforcement in Austria. Harald Lesch finishes his book with a very great satiric saying, and I want to bring it to you: Two planets meet. One planet says to the other: You look bad! – On the other: Yes, I have man. – On the first one: Don't worry about it. I think these thoughts may lead us to think a little more about what is important to us and where we live at the next environmental budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e32996	Next speaker: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33018	Madam President. Minister! If we are debating the agricultural budget today, we are talking about €2.1 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, this budget is a clear commitment to our farmers, to the rural youth, but also to a positive development of rural areas, for one thing is clear: Only a vital rural area is the basis for sustainable agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! Part of this money is paid to farmers to the farms. I would like to ask you, we are talking about payment of benefits, because every euro that comes to the farmers is facing a performance. And these charges are necessary because in many areas it is not possible to achieve product prices that are sufficient to ensure the economic survival of farms. It is amazing, however, when right now, where the prices are God's resurgence, the Chamber of Labour is expressing itself again, making price comparisons and setting prices at the Pranger. Please address the floor to your colleagues in the Chambers of Workers, that they are finally abandoning these price comparisons, which are inadmissible! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In this context, it is also always remarkable – and I am glad to say that in the Committees it is a good thing to do something for agriculture that one cannot act quickly enough in the event of such problems, but then, when a proposal comes from the Farmers' Federation – and this Social Security Discount was a proposal – is immediately blocked and rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! One can calmly discuss this discount, one can find it bad, but at least one should be so far as to put other proposals on the table. I miss these in many political groups in this House. I miss that other suggestions on how to help farmers in this situation come to the table. [[Abg. Jannach: Just as it has been promised!]] A sentence on environmental policy: Estimated colleague Brunner! If you are talking about hydropower here, I am surprised that the Green Group in Graz, in connection with a budget, has practically been driven into the air by the government there to prevent a hydroelectric power station. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] – So much about the credibility of the green policy in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33066	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33088	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I refer to the objectives of subheading 43. What are the environmental targets for? – Action Objective 1 covers, for example, the strengthening of environmental technologies, the Green Jobs, which have already been mentioned briefly today. This is not only about the number of jobs, but also about the quality of these jobs. It is necessary to align the indicators for these objectives with EU targets, and I would ask the Minister of State not to lose sight of this aspect. Article 2 contains an increase in the use of renewable energy. Why? – In order to achieve the desired energy transition in the period provided for. The development there is sometimes promising. I can prove this with a number: In the previous year, electricity production from wind power and photovoltaics increased by 25 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2017 budget clearly shows: It is expansive, it allows investment: for infrastructure, road, but I particularly emphasize the rail, for construction, for research and innovation, especially for energy research. Austria is in the remarkable first place among public investment in energy and research in the EU-wide comparison. These are investments with a lasting positive impact on economic development in general and on the labour market situation in particular. Another incentive is investment and promotion in the field of e-mobility. These are concrete examples of how the budget sets emphasis on both climate change and labour market policy. I'm looking for broad approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33121	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33142	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a few thoughts on the environment and agriculture. The first area is the environment support budget domestic: There are 91 million euros set. – A positive aspect. There renewable energy sources are being promoted, energy saving measures are being launched, and efficient use of resources is supported. A study prepared by Wifo states that the economic effects of 2015 have secured 5,800 Green jobs. – A positive aspect. The second area – as a mayor, I can bring myself into the debate – is waste and settlement water management; €410 million is reserved there. It is possible to ensure sustainable drinking water and also to bring wastewater treatment on orderly lines. This makes it possible for the projects to remain eligible for funding in wastewater treatment and drinking water supply, and the cost of the budgets will be kept within the scope of this. Finally, a thought of agricultural nature: Austrian agriculture is an important part of the Austrian economy. And because we were also compared with other economic sectors, I say quite openly to you: If one lets us go in front of the dogs, then the greatest impact will be on the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Who makes the agricultural policy?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I would ask you, Mr Pirklhuber, to show a little more sensitivity in this debate and to support our proposal on the Social Security Discount, which farmers in Austria need. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Georg, this is social policy!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33204	The next speaker is Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33226	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I'd like to say a few words about the Green Climate Fund. It was founded to provide money for projects to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to climate change in developing countries. Through these funds, developing countries can be supported in such a way that there is no longer any reason for people to go on their way to Europe as climate refugees. This will help not only the climate but also us in the long term. Every euro we put in these funds saves us money for the supply of climate refugees, but – and that is also very important – the green economy is also supported. Many Austrian companies are already leading in the fields of environmental technology and renewable energies. However, it is extremely difficult for these companies to get funding or projects from the Green Climate Fund. [[Abg. Brunner: Because Austria is not paying!]] [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Not at all!]] Unlike Germany, there is no resolution point for possible projects in Austria. Moreover, as announced, the Austrian contribution has not been increased to €50 million, it is just €12 million budgeted. Mr. Federal Minister! According to Oesterreichischer Entwicklungsbank, Austrian companies in niche areas would also be quite competitive. It is therefore important to introduce and support Austrian companies to global demand and thus to allow access to future markets, also for the sake of the climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33273	The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33295	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am allowed to respond very briefly to the words of Mr Knes because he meant that in Austria the forest economy is not in order and so much is imported. – Yes, it is imported, but it is exported much more. [[Abg. Steinbichler: For God's sake! This cannot be said by the President of the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture. What are you?- Oh, my God!]] Forestry and the forestry industry are quite fine with us. The best measure for a good forest economy is good prices, and that is why we have to process the markets, and in that we are very good. Our forestry and wood industry is on the go. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Secondly, It has been said that the wood should not rot in the woods. There is a good way that it does not come about, namely the eco-stromnovel. There you can put a focus on biomass. I know that Mr Bundeskanzler is there skeptical and was not very helpful in the budget speech on this subject, but there is a very interesting presentation by Mrs Mag. Dr. Steinberger-Kern, whom she held at the Styrian Forest Farmer's Day. I recommend that you listen to this talk on eco electricity and biomass use. To today's budget: These €2.14 billion do not all come from federal money, and I would like to point this out. €1.28 billion comes from the EU, € 182 million from the countries and only €675 million from the federal government, including wildlife cultivation, including education and training, and so on. So that's 0.85 percent of our budget we use here. In this way, the full collection of the European Union's funds, co-financing, is achieved, and this is a great deal not only for the agricultural sector but also for the entire population of Austria. It is true that in the debates, of course, everyone is committed to agriculture again and again, only when it comes to deciding on funds are some not present again. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Make better agricultural policy!]] I believe that this budget is quite a reasonable budget, which will enable us to make environmental programmes, mining payments. Of course, I would also wish for the vigilance of farms, for the miners, for green land farms, but still note that it is positive that there is a slight increase in the budget in the area of mining payments. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Who makes the agricultural policy?]] Minister Rupprechter also sets up initiatives in marketing and product innovation, which is also important. Finally, I should also like to address the issue of SVB action. I think in difficult times you just have to help unbureaucratically. As far as the SVB discount is concerned, I hope that an agreement will be reached, especially because no money is needed from the budget and from the SVB's reserves. However, I do not think it wise if you want to punish the SVB several times with € 30 million. That, I think, should be taken away.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33377	I now have no more words on this subject. I declare the deliberations terminated. I would like to thank the Federal Minister. [[17:06:45]] UG 25: Families and youth
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33402	We are now entering into the negotiation of Division 25: Families and Youth. I welcome Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karmasin. As First, Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33431	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear listeners! It is about the changes in the figures of the family and youth budget, which are primarily due to the fact that we have shortened the service providers' contributions. This is a good thing in itself, but if I cut something short and thereby reduce the revenue there, I have to look at it on another side, that something comes back, because what is taken away there would benefit our families, but what does not happen because there is less money. On the contrary: We have a new debt of €3.2 billion with 2017 at the Family Compensation Fund. Why is it now? – Not only have the service providers been reduced, we also have the export of the family allowance to children who do not live with us, whose parents or their fathers or mothers work here, but their money goes abroad. These were € 249 million in 2015 alone, which not only lacks our families in Austria, but also lacks the purchasing power and the economy in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This aid, which flows abroad, is a multiplicity of what the individual countries in which it flows actually pay out to family benefits. But that alone is not the only abuse we have revealed to the liberals. You are now taking a very interesting path, as at one time the ÖVP and also the Federal Chancellor have come up with it, that it cannot be so easy, and you have written a letter to the EU, for example, in the way: We are now going to write to the Christian child, something is going to change! – However, I do not believe that the EU will really change a lot. Therefore, I think that € 100 million – this is about dimensions that need to create a pan-European solution – will go back abroad and are gone. Unfortunately, these 100 million € do not benefit our families, and that is exactly where we have to start. However, we also have another problem with the FLAF, namely that we have not only less revenue, but also very many non-family expenditure incurred by the FLAF. We should start by finally unraveling this FLAF and eliminating these abuses. We have already tabled a number of proposals which are now hanging somewhere in the air, because it has been said that we are making working groups. Only, these working groups have been meeting for a year, because just a year ago or more, we have already said that. We have already talked to Minister Mitterlehner about this, and this has been a long time since he was supposed to represent the families here. That's what it said: We will be able to do the valorizations and all these things once the FLAF is not in the minus. Only by paying all this out of the FLAF and getting less in, will this, of course, fall on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day until that will be so. That is why we should be able to make these debts, because we have to say that an evaluation has always been envisaged here. These kind of foreign transfers, which we have in the FLAF, will already amount to €1,000 365 000 in 2017 – and that is not little if we look at it! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a first approach. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, we also have another request, which benefits our families and our mothers, namely the pension allowance of four years per child, no matter at which distance the children get to the world. What was adopted in an initiative proposal in the Upper Austrian Land Day could be an example for ÖVP and Greens – that would be a possibility! Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The proposal from Upper Austria was good for our families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, Mrs Minister, and the Federal Government, I ask you to: Finally, take steps to make the family a leader for the future! Work for mothers who need child rearing times to get a pension! Please also stay with the Minister of Social Affairs in order to recover the money for the families and to feed the FLAF again so that it is not deficient and we can evaluate!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e33540	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e36607	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e36628	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I can report on the budget for families and youth: 6.9 billion € are set here, and this is a very, very good level in international comparison. I should like to stress that the family aid for 2014, 2016 and 2018 has been increased or increased and that in 2017 additional expenditure has been increased to €60 million, due to the increases due to immigration and due – hurra! – due to the increasing birth rate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] I am allowed to report that the childcare allowance has been a success model since 2002 and is always very well accepted by the families, that a new system, the childcare account, will be put into effect in 2017 and in the area of 2017 a budget increase of € 44.8 million will be set. The goal of responsible family policy must be to secure purchasing power in the families and pay off additional expenses when children live in a family association in order to enable our children to grow healthy in Austria. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] A second area, which is important in this budget and in the work of the Federal Minister, is the facilitation of the compatibility of family and profession. In this context, I should like to see the extension of childcare and education facilities. This is the case in the United Kingdom, where there is a great deal of money in 2014 and where, in cooperation with the countries, the communities are in a process of continuing to promote kindergartens and pedigrees. It is important to note that this development needs to be coordinated on-site in order to have a certain cost-effectiveness in mind. I would like to see intensive cooperation between the federal, national and local levels. Two thoughts on Mrs Kitzmüller's comments: She addressed the story with FLAF: Yes, in the FLAF there are budget items about which one can say that this is not in the narrowest sense a family support, but in a further sense these are, in any case, important support that is necessary. A working group will devote itself to this issue and one will find solutions. These issues are certainly well removed by the Federal Minister. The second area: The export of family aid is a permanent issue that has been very intensive in our work over the last two to three years. I can also say that there has already been a certain agreement with the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Hundstorfer, to push forward projects and discussions. I believe that this issue is also very well taken up at European level by our members of the Federal Government. To sum up, you can say that Sophie Karmasin's work and commitment is going a lot further. Financial benefits are increased, infrastructure is being built, birth rate is increasing, and people in that country honor it. More and more people in this country are saying: Yes, Austria is a family-friendly country. I can therefore say that we are approaching with great steps the objective that our Mrs Federal Minister has spent on: We will become the most family-friendly country in Europe! – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e36682	Next speaker: Mrs Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e36704	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! For the family allowance: You, Mrs. Minister, have repeatedly referred to interviews when it comes to children living abroad whose parents receive family allowances, when it comes to social justice and fairness. Mr. Kitzmüller of the FPÖ has now brought it in again, as it is a matter of fairness and it would always be so unfair that the children who live elsewhere and are not measured there according to the cost of living will get much more money – this is about less money – and that is why they should be billed so to speak. But I would like to ask you one thing: Is it fair, Mrs Minister, that you and I, is it fair, Mrs Kitzmüller, that we all do not pay in to FLAF, but we are very likely to receive the family allowance? I think you have children, I have children, and we get the family allowance and also child care benefits. I ask you: Is it fair that people who do not pay into the family compensation fund get something out of it? Is that social justice? Is that fair? – Then we talk about fairness in terms of family support and all those who pay for it or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] – Mrs Fekter, I just want to know if this is fair or not. I call that not fair! So maybe we'll clarify this fairness position in Austria once before we talk about it. [[Further call of the Abg. Fekter.]] I would also like to tell you which people this is about. Perhaps you should listen to me again, Mrs Fekter. It is about people who are very often doing jobs with us, which no one else is doing: in the field of care, in construction, during the harvest season as harvest helpers and harvest helpers, in gardens, in farms. I know women from Romania who work in gardens much more than required working hours. There are few work inspectorates looking at it. These are women who live in containers without a shower who do such jobs, which is very convenient for us who are losing the low-cost sector. These are women who don't see their children for weeks because they have to work in Austria and earn money that are in contact with their children maximum over Skype. These women, these families we still take away additional benefits. Can you answer me if that's fair? – Yes, that's fair? [[Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Fekter.]] Okay. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My concept of fairness in Europe really looks different, and I would like to continue to discuss it. If my child is studying abroad, let's say in Munich, how about I get more or less? There are so many questions that arise for families where parents are border workers, for example people in Vorarlberg who work in Germany. What about these families? What solution do you imagine? I think it's a very cheap, populist concept to say we're just taking away some people. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: We don't take anything away!]] One can supposedly save € 100 million, but no account in this respect is understandable to me, and the figures we get are also highly contradictory. Perhaps we will clarify what you really want, what fairness in terms of family support really means, and then we will talk further! I am also somewhat disappointed that the SPÖ is now also entering the debate in the person of the Federal Chancellor and is surfing on a similar wave, without these thoughts, how many people are being disadvantaged, who are entitled to family support. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] I also explain why, and it is obvious that everyone knows quite well, because they are also enrolling in the FLAF. [[Abg. Peter Worm: There are other examples too!]] They pay the same contributions as any other person employed as a self-employed person whose employer, namely, through the service provider's contribution, pays contributions. This is the same for everyone, because for all the people who work here, FLAF is paid. [[Intervoke of Deputies Peter Wurm and Tamandel.]] I see that there is a great disparity in the political approach and I simply cannot understand why, at the expense of people we depend on, there is such a cheap political change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e36805	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e36827	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 1 734,000 children receive family allowances in Austria. 24 498 children live in another EU country, where family support is also paid, which is exactly 1.45 percent of all children receiving family allowances. In total, the state of Austria pays €3.4 billion to families. I would just like to say this in advance. In order to know what numbers one is talking about when talking about family aid. Mrs Minister, I think that if you and your colleagues write a letter to Brussels, then above all there should be a concept on which you can actually discuss, facts based, with figures that can be understood. Then you will have to look at this, because you simply have to discuss it in a democracy. Without a concept, however, it is difficult to discuss this, because of the appeal to you: Put forward a concept on which you can discuss! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] To the family budget a few thoughts: I think the families are in all the diversity that exists, the foundation of our society, and politics has the task of supporting the families as best as possible. This concerns, on the one hand, the area of monetary benefits, namely family allowances, but I am also thinking about the field of non-monetary benefits, i.e. when considering the compatibility of family and work. In this area, we must do a lot in the next few years, so that, I think, families really have the courage if I can say so, to say yes to the child. We know that the fertility rate in Austria is not particularly high in Europe, although there are large amounts of money for families. That is why I am convinced – and you too, Mrs Minister, are working very intensively on this – that you really need to make even more in the area of compatibility between family and profession. The €70 million made available for the extension of kindergartens – in connection with the obligation to visit – with the next kindergarten year are good, are an important contribution to this, I am convinced. It is also the childcare allowance, which has already been mentioned today, which has been reformed. We make €1.2 billion available, which is particularly important in our time to increase father participation. I am convinced that many young fathers would like to take part in child rearing, in the care, and with the childcare allowance, with the childcare account, this will again be a little more possible, because the individual possibilities in relation to child care will surely lead to even more men taking part in child care. I have already mentioned the family allowance. I think family policy has to address the needs of the family. Of course, freedom of choice plays a major role, I admit. However, there can only be freedom of choice if there is a choice, and therefore monetary services on the one hand and the facilities for care on the other should be increased to the best possible extent, and the childcare allowance must always be further developed. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is generally a good family budget that can be seen to support families well. Finally, I would like to give you one more thought, as we are talking about families today and it is a very big concern to me: The right to family life, to family life, is a securitized human right, ladies and gentlemen. In all our political discussions, I think we should always be careful that human rights apply to all people, regardless of their social and national origin. I'd just ask you to consider that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e36892	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e36913	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Family policy or the budget of the family ministry is the subject. I have already made relatively extensive criticism in the Committee on Budgets. I was in some of the meetings of the Committee on Budgets, and admittedly I was really satisfied in a few, but I did not feel in any other than the Family Committee that we were not developing properly or partly even in a completely wrong direction. That is why I would like to focus on four issues: the first is the topic of FLAF, which has also been discussed by a number of previous speakers: In the past, the family compensation fund was heavily indebted. Massively indebted, it was €3.65 billion at the maximum, in 2012. After that, a very concrete decommitment has been committed, and it has managed to generate surpluses of €200 to €350 million a year that have led to debt reduction. However, the reduction in the additional wage costs decided upon, which we in principle very much welcome as NEOS, has the side effect of re-indebted to this family compensation fund. This also means that we have built a wage-additional reduction not on the foundation of reforms, but on the foundation of sovereign debt. Elegantly, far away from the economic operators, it was simply the family ministry, one has made this decision on the shoulders of the future families. I consider many other discussions taking place in the family sector to be alternate wars, because politics, and, more specifically, the governmental parties, is not able to implement a corresponding reform of the family tax compensation fund, which, on the one hand, leads to our being able to maintain family benefits to the fullest extent, but on the other hand ensures that no new debts are made. I know there are working groups in the ministry, but I also know that nothing has happened in the past year – as long as it has been almost since. We will have already reached the 2012 debt level in 2019, if not traded. Other measures are not known to me at the moment. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What we want is nothing but for the ministry to present within the next half year, how it opposes a massive new debt, which it has admittedly not indebted itself, but for which it now bears the responsibility. I think that's the minimum you can expect from such a ministry. One of the two other points I would also like to make is that on the one hand, we have invested very intensively in the development of childcare places in all federal states, more in the number of places than in quality. However, it is extremely exciting: We have managed much more money than in the past, have created much more offers in all the federal states, and yet the full-time work of mothers has been falling since the year and day. I looked at this in detail: In 2004, mothers who have lived in partnership had 23.2 percent full-time employment, with only 16.4 percent in 2015. A third less is therefore fully employed than before our expansion initiative, for which we have taken a lot of money into our hands. These are mothers living in a partnership. In fact, it is even more exciting for single-parents: There were 36.4 percent who were fully employed before the expansion initiative. Now, after this expansion initiative, it is only 21.6 percent. This means that the more we are expanding, the fewer mothers in partnership, as well as those who are single parents, are in full employment. I am in favour of extending childcare places – please, not to misunderstand – but something goes wrong in this country if it goes wrong to the goal set by the ministry, namely to reconcile work and family. I would like to address another point which is also of media relevance and much less of budget relevance: Prior speakers have addressed the issue of paying family allowances to children who do not have a residence address in Austria. It is about almost 24,500 children in the EU Member States whose parents, mother or father work in Austria, but who do not live in Austria themselves. It is understandable that if you have significantly lower purchasing power or cost of living in Bulgaria or Romania, lower family support will be paid there. However, several points are unanswered, namely (a) in what form the European law can be implemented, (b) what additional administrative costs are incurred for us and (c) what additional costs it entails. There are countries within the European Union that are disbursing more money. So it could happen to us at the end of the day that we have to pay a lot more than before. All these answers are not given. All those who have so far reported in the media have done this for a cheap headline and not because they have a concrete solution in mind. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is not the payment of family aid abroad that costs € 250 million annually, but that we pay back up to five years retroactively. According to our calculations, the sum without the retroactive disbursement would amount to almost €70 million, i.e. one third of the expenditure we currently have. I would like very concrete solutions in this respect from the Minister and reforms rather than cheap headlines. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37017	The motions for resolutions tabled are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37148	The next item is the speech by Mr El-Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37169	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We are now talking about UG 25, that is, the budget on families and youth. As the spokesperson of the People's Party, I would like to address the resources available for youth promotion. This is about €7.3 million, used annually for youth organisations, extra-school youth work, which concerns more than 200 organisations with very many volunteers. To mention a few numbers: 160,000 volunteers are involved in these youth organizations, work daily, make projects, take care of young people, organize leisure activities, regardless of whether in the youth red cross, in the path finders, in the evangelical, Catholic, Muslim youth, the student representative organizations, and many, many others who cannot now all be counted. These voluntary hours would be aggregated and very conservatively estimated to account for about 5.7 million hours of work. If we were to think about paying for that, we would be in line for about 3,231 full - time jobs. This is hardly manageable for the state. This work happens voluntarily, and for that I would like to say a great thank you: Thank you. - You're allowed to clap. [[General condolences.]] To illustrate this again: Every funding euro put into youth work saves us 10 €, we would have to pay for this work. That's nice. A little detail on the edge: These figures have not been valorised since 2001. We have had a goal in the budget – that is, trust is the most important currency – which has been said: no new debt. A budget that produces surpluses and creates the scope we need for new investments was the goal. That is why I must say quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that I am angry and angry. [[Abg. Kogler: That's not how you look!]] – That's not what I look like? I've had a whole night to sleep over it. I am angry, Mr Commissioner, even though I can get a little bit together at the pult. You can be sure, not only here, but also outside, many people are wondering what we really want with this pension hundred. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now I'm telling you quite honestly: I grant to anyone who has worked hard and has earned his pension that we look at him even at age, and I agree to all the minimum pensioners that we will make a little of the hard lot they have to do with the few money by ever making a hundred more available to them. What I do not see, ladies and gentlemen, is that the highest pensioners – those who receive well over €3,000 pension – also receive a hundred at the end of the year. I am annoyed when we run from Pontius to Pilate when the young speakers together make applications that the student ticket should be introduced, that it should be invested in public transport in the future, and that is to say, because of 80 or 300 million euros, that is not possible. [[Abg. Kogler: You're right!]] And we invest 200 million € with a eyelash. For years, all education experts have called for support staff to support the schools. Now I have to say that we have – I will come back later – a great package with regard to the expansion of all day care, but we still have nothing at the support staff. At €200 million we could reach very, very much, ladies and gentlemen. This would be an investment in the future, that would be an investment in the youth of our country and not a hundred people who are probably handed over as a gift in Christmas money, as some colleagues have already suggested. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser]] I would like to give you an example: Just imagine – this is not now the big budget of the Austrian state budget, somehow quite impersonal – that you would go to the youth account of your son or daughter, that will cover, pay for it, and give the grandparents a tenth of it, so that they can have a gift for the young people at Christmas and perhaps give them a tenth for a few sugars or any other expenses. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Quite honest: I don't understand. I would like all of us in this House to think a little more about how we bring together a budget that creates exactly these spaces for the future, which, as we do not have a valorization in the youth field since 2001, is one thing in which we not only put the individual interests of individual groups in the foreground, but also rethink that once. I would like us to think about how we can create what many people out there want, namely that they can trust in our foresight, in our outlook. The Minister of Finance has announced that words do not pay any debts, and that is why we must finally take action. I'm telling you, time is running out of it. If we don't want to leave the space to those who wait with destructive – I say – joys that it doesn't work, then I ask you, let's get the belt tighter, let's be willing to save once and invest if, then in the future. [[Abg. Hagen: You're already in government, aren't you?]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37257	Mr Steinbichler is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37306	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Listeners in front of the TV sets and on the gallery! Mr Kitzmüller, I think, has described very impressive and very credible developments in the FLAF. Mr Strasser then tried, of course, also as committee chairman, to make this budget a little nice or too nice. – No, I believe, Mr Commissioner, that it can never be made available to families enough money. [[Abg. Kogler presents a panel with a picture of the earth on green ground and the inscription “There is no planet B. ” on the speaker’s desk.]] – Thank you very much, Mr Kogler. Thank you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] It cannot be made available to families enough money. Of course, I should like to remind you that there is still a lack of the 17 percent inflation rate of the Pre-Government in the case of family aid, but I have now understood Mr El Habbassi's call for help. Of course, youth dissatisfaction is great and justified. But I can already remember – I am really willing to build up, they have partly separated it from the mouth – that the builders of this pension century have a name: They're called, I think, Khol and Blecha. To complain about it here, I think, is important for the club and also that this is discussed here. I come to a very different subject: The family association organized a lecture by a woman named Kelle, a German expert, who said: In today's life expectancy of 100 years, it should be possible for mothers to stay with children for three years, in the most important three years, in the start phase, so that they can really devote themselves to care, education, in order to lay the important foundation for future life. These are the three years in which the children get the most. Therefore, I can point out that the family is the most important cell, the cheapest cell, from birth to care. No one can make it cheaper, no one can make it more personal, no one can make it more laborious what is being done. A warm thanks to all the educating mothers, to all single mothers in the families. I do not think that this achievement can be sufficiently appreciated. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On this important issue and on the open issue of the motion for a resolution already tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, I should also like to make a request from our side, because it is high time to regulate the recognition of this educational achievement, because we have the following problem: When born at a shorter distance than four years, this is not fully reckoned. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37399	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Steinbichler is sufficiently supported, and it is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37476	Mr Klubobmann Lugar spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37500	Mr President. I don't know if you noticed. Mr Kogler went out during the speech by Mr Steinbichler, put a Taferl of the Greens on the table, and has therefore greatly disturbed the honourable Member. I do not think that the whole thing here in Parliament should come to a Kasperl Theatre. If anyone speaks, don't let someone else go and put a taferl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37562	All right, thank you. Mrs Kucharovich's next speech. - Please. [[Abg. Lugar: I could do that now, I put a Taferl in place...! Perhaps the President will respond...!]] [[Abg. Kucharovich is already at the speaker's desk when Federal Minister Karmasin points out that she has been spoken.]] - Excuse me, after that. Sorry, that was my fault.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37601	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Thank you for allowing me to speak in front of you, although it was otherwise noted in the list of speakers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We've heard it several times: More than €9 million can be found in the budget explicitly for youth in the chapter Family and Youth. Clearly, it is much more important to think, for example, of the field of education, of the education budget, of the science budget and much more, but we remain in the sub-division! Mr El Habbassi has already mentioned a few points. [[Abg. Lugar places a panel on which a bar chart is shown, on the speaker's desk.]] The €9 million is clearly the top youth ticket, the student free ride. [[Abg. Piston Helmet: Kindergarten!]] Only: We also know that we have not yet come on with regard to the free movement of students. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] I can only address once again my appeal to you, Mrs Minister, but also to all the other experts in the Federal Government. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37654	Mr. Klubobmann Lugar, you talked about it earlier, you don't want the whole thing here coming to the Kasperltheater. They now contribute a large part to the fact that it is. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lugar: You ignored it!]] - You should be ashamed! [[Abg. Lugar:... take your own nose!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37700	Thank you. A second point concerning these €9 million is the promotion of important youth organisations, which has already been mentioned. I would like to reiterate and strengthen the appeal of the previous speaker El Habbassi, who has not been valorizing since 2001. A third part, of course, is also the family allowance paid directly to young people from 18 years of age, which was an important thing at the time. I would like to thank you once again for this. In short: The budget is worth being supported by the above points, but obviously many speakers from other areas and resorts say of course: We need more! – This is out of question, and we know this when, for example, we think that 300,000 children and young people live in poverty in Austria, if we assume that the decision, which last weekend was taken to ensure a minimum level of safety in Lower Austria, will meet a vast number of children and take their chances, or if we think of refugee children and young people who have less available in terms of day rates than did not escape. It really needs more concrete priorities, Mrs Minister, which are also reflected in the budget. I very much welcome the fact that you made the issue of the missing children in Europe and Austria last week at a press conference. You have presented a guide that, I think, is good and a real step. But how do we proceed and how do we help the children specifically? What's going on? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] That's where I'm just expecting answers. A very different problem, which also concerns very many children and young people, is hatred postings, violence between young people. Where does the budget fit into concrete action in this area? We, as Members of Parliament, have tabled a resolution on the Internet generation as youth speakers. I ask you openly: I know your projects at a glance, but when will we as Members be involved to cooperate in the concept? Key word rental right: Consider, for example, the situation of young adults who are made extremely difficult to self-employed by not finding a manageable four walls. I am fully aware, Mrs Minister, that these are not all points in your field of competence. I am fully aware of this, but it was just about putting these issues on the tapet, focusing on our policy, because our policy is about children and young people. It is also a matter of checking for children's and young people's tolerance, much, much more intensive than it is now, and a few days after the 27th century. The birthday of children's rights these rights, but especially children and young people away from family policy, should be seriously placed in the focus of our policy and should therefore also be taken into account in future budgets. That's what I wish. It is not a wish concert here, but it is a request that I address to you, Mrs Minister, to the government and also to all of us. I think it is most important to make policies for children and young people. Let's all start – and not just the youth speakers – with it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37760	Mrs Karmasin is next spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37781	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear High House! Austria will become the most family-friendly country in Europe by 2025; we are on a very good way there. Some good developments can be reported. First, the higher birth rate. For the first time in decades we have seen a growing birth rate again, which is very pleasing. Last year there was more at 4,000 births, which is really the success of our family-friendly policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Very successful is the expansion of childcare, 11 320 new places were built last year. This was historically the highlight of the expansion initiative, and this year we may be creating a higher value. Thirdly, the opening hours. For the under 3 year olds, we are now 65 percent in the field of VIF-compliant criteria. This is a gratifying value, which is not yet quite satisfactory, we continue to work on it, but 65 percent, that is already very, very pleasing. Fourth: A very large focus of the department is the participation of fathers. We are now already 30 percent father participation in some models, which is really pleasing, but we are also expecting more, which is why the reform of the child's money account is 1st. A very large focus in the budget on March 2017. The reform is very comprehensive, guarantees more individuality, more freedom of choice and even more flexibility. In particular, it defined father participation as a central priority, with the family-time bonus and with the partnership bonus two very strong elements were created, which will strengthen father participation in order to bring Austria closer to greater partnership and to strengthen the reconciliation of family and work. For this we have added € 40 million more to the budget. We will try to achieve this value more than that. Another word about family aid: In this legislative period, we spend € 1 billion more on family aid, which is based on the increases and on the increasing birth rate. 1 billion € More expenditure for families in this legislative period is a common success, which I believe we must stress once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Two words on family allowances abroad: In March, at the federal level, it was decided to negotiate and go this way with the Commission. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] This decision was already made by Chancellor Faymann in March, fortunately it is now supported by Chancellor Kern, and above all – and that is the decisive – it is positively reflected at the Commission level. We will continue to follow this issue because it is fair. Let us remember what the starting point and the basic consideration of family aid were! What is it: to create a financial balance between families with and without children! This compensation with an average of €150 per month is different in Austria than in Romania, where €150 is already a small income. [[Call the ÖVP:... half of the income!]] It is not fair to treat these two families differently, to grant 150 € in Austria with lower purchasing power than in other countries where this is already an income. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Swisser:... Fairness!]] Family aid is neither an insurance scheme nor an income component. – That is only once again specified. [[Calls to the Greens.]] We will deal very intensively with this issue next year and hope for strong support for the entire Federal Government and, of course, for appropriate Commission-level treatment. Other priorities of the department are clearly the school books financed by the FLAF; the central importance of the additional expenditure is the e-books. More €1.3 million will be invested in the area, because we believe that digital school books and school teaching materials are necessary for our young people in order not to lose the connection to the future. We cannot celebrate the creative period in school, while outside, so to speak, the digital age rages. Finally, I call another focus for the next year, which represents a very central project for us: the education compass. We have agreed that we will start the first pilot experiment in Upper Austria in September of next year, possibly a second federal country will follow this path, which will then continue in 2018 on a uniform basis throughout Germany with a strengthening in the quality field – via the education compass. You see, the most family-friendly country in Europe is within reach; and the 2017 budget emphasizes this once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37858	The next item is Mrs Steger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37880	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the budget speech by Minister of Finance Schelling, the word "youth" occurred just once, and in your budget budget, just €9 million is planned for the area of youth: This is, as it were, the short summary of the importance the Austrian youth has for this federal government. But let's go to the youth budget. Of course, youth policy is a cross-sectional matter, and there are not many ways for you, Mrs Minister, to issue a few support to youth organisations, for example. One of these is, for example, the socialist youth. This is perfectly correct, of course, because all the youth organisations of parties represented here in Parliament have the right to receive their support, even though I would like to say critically again at this point – and I have done so last year – that I consider it very critical that the socialist youth should use this money in order to use it as hetceric flyers with sayings such as: Who the cross at H.-C. Stache does, needs to know it has a hook to make. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Nothing new!]] [[Abg. Singer: Pui!]] By the way, a very shallow saying and very original. But that's not an individual case either. For example, well-known sayings – even intellectually very high-quality and not hetceric at all – have been remembered as well as the saying: A tree, a knit and a rhinestone. – Also very low level! I have been addressing this last year, and that is why I am speaking again this year: I expect the SPÖ to distance itself or at least once a critical word from such expressions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thank God you once again have the opportunity – there are still a few sitting there, there will be some more to speak – to express a critical opinion against such formulations here. I am very excited who will come out of here and say something, because it is you who, in recent weeks and months, are bringing up the topic of Hate Speech. What, if not that, is Hate Speech, and what, if not your behavior you're showing, is nice to have a double moral on this topic?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nice and good, the socialist youth, of course, has its right to support from the youth budget. [[Abg. Rossmann:... with your own youth organizations!]] But she certainly has no claim to extra €90 000 – perhaps you should listen! –, €90 000 have been from five red ministries since 2013. [[towards Greens]] And now the interesting thing is: For ads in the school planner of socialist youth – I repeat: for ads! – €90 000 will be paid from five red ministries, €90 000 for the annual funding of the youth budget of approximately €356,000. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, these promotions are scandalous and should be put off as urgently as possible. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] Apart from that, the school planner – who does not know him, that is a small issue – is not only a planner, but of course it also finds party-political propaganda against the FPÖ and, as it is logical at the moment, against Norbert Hofer. - That's just for the info. But now go back to the budget! Yes, youth policy is a cross-cutting matter, and that is why I see it as your central task as a minister for youth to ensure that the interests of young people are the most important criterion in all sectors in order to make the budget really sustainable. However, this budget is very far away! The Bertelsmann Foundation recently published a study showing that the proportion of young people without a future increase, that the gap between old and young has increased, and that our youth remains on the track. Yes, there is actually this gap, and this gap is even huge. There is a huge gap between the boys in this country and an irresponsible red-black old policy. This is proved again by this budget, because unpleasant but necessary reforms are simply being pushed into the future with the help of an ever-increasing debt policy. They live, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, at the expense of our youth today and at the expense of future generations. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not responsible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are many areas in which there are really many areas where there is an urgent need for reforms for young people. For example, in the field of education: There are 30 percent who are unable to read and write meaningfully after completion of compulsory schooling and 53,000 who quit their schooling early. Three-quarters of young people in this country find that the education system does not sufficiently prepare them for the labour market. This is a disastrous testimony to our education system in this country! In addition, there are 72,000 unemployed young people. There are 7 100 job seekers per year who do not find a job, and, and, and. There are many areas where there is a great need for action, such as health, sports, universities and, and so on. In this budget there are no reforms in these areas. Instead, billions will again be put into an irresponsible red and black immigration policy. In summary, you can say: What the youth needs is a rethinking. What youth needs is reforms. What the youth needs is a government that finally ceases to budget at the expense of the next generations. To all of this, this government seems unable!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e37988	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38009	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The family and youth budget includes almost €7 billion. Almost half of them, which is €3.4 billion, go to family aid. I would like to stress: Austria is on its way with fug and right to become the most family-friendly country in the world, because we have done a lot of positive things in the area of family support. [[Abg. Brückl:... is incredible!]] I remind you: We raised them three times now, 2014, 2016, 2018. I believe that efforts should be made to continue this two-year cycle of adjustment to inflation. I also remember the Children's Money Account New, which allows for a total flexibility in the sense of free choice for parents, giving a partnership bonus of €1,000 and giving the family time bonus, in particular for the fathers immediately after birth, an additional fee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to congratulate you on bringing these important points to the fore. Even in times when it is not easy to create a budget, the families are a very important concern to us. This confirms the figures, data and facts, and above all how we generally deal with families with children in our country. Also with regard, for example, to the pension allowance for child education periods: There is a need to consider whether we want to burden the family sector by more than 70 percent. We would like to have fifty/fifty, so to speak, that there is a fair and just division. The family allowance is simply and simply the instrument we need for families with children. The increase, the valorization, we should continue together. But what we address in this area is the drain abroad: We have to stop that! That is a question of social justice. If the children live with us, there is no question! – full family allowance, no matter where parents come from. I would like to hold that straight and clear. However, if the family allowance is transferred to another country because the children also live there and are not with us, it must be possible to adapt it to the cost of living there and to adapt the system in this direction. That's what we want, in this direction we're on our way! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to thank you for a consistent family policy that focuses on the children and the freedom of choice of the parents. This is a Christian-social family policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38065	Next speaker: Mr Julian Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38086	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! On the one hand, I have listened to this discussion now, and on the other hand, in the last two days I have been listening to all the assessments that are there on the budget, and I must say, especially you, about Red and Black, about the Federal Government, because all the time it is talking about: That's a great budget, that's a future budget! So every single point we go through is just good and could not be better. They're defending it. I mean, before that, there has been a very slight criticism from my colleague, the youth speaker, but otherwise everything is just great. I can't even understand how you're getting on with it! And I ask you quite honestly, so to speak, as a human being and as a Member of Parliament: If you go home tonight or tomorrow, if we have voted, do you really have a good conscience about this budget? - Yes? [[Yes, at the ÖVP.]] Do you think you're saying, Okay, that's what we're proud of, we've done something!Unknown term type: "%s".? You look your children in the eyes, you look your grandchildren in the eyes and say that's a super budget? [[Abg. Singer: They're so...!]] - Okay, there's no answers, that's significant. In my opinion, this is not a good budget, because it is just managed. In fact, we here are responsible for making policy. Politics means form, politics means not only that it's about making some deal, somehow distributing money, but also that one has a plan with these funds that one distributes and thus makes policy. Federal Chancellor Kern has announced the New Deal. What's the New Deal? – I don’t recognize that in this budget at all. For me this is the very classic, old, dirty deal between the two government parties, between the ÖVP and the SPÖ, and unfortunately on the back of my generation and the boys, because of course we as a boy must live the longest with these budgets and, so to speak, with all these regulations. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] For me, a budget is not a deal, but for me a budget is above all a plan as to how to go into the future. I'm going to give you a few points now. On the one hand, climate protection. We all here have agreed to the Paris Agreement together, by the way, with your votes. This means that as a human being, almost all the countries of the world, we have decided to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to zero by the middle of the century and that we are really developing our world towards a green, sustainable economic system. In this budget, there is nothing that just goes in that direction. There is nothing in this budget that will take just one step. On the contrary: It is deleted in the environmental budget, in the climate budget for several years in a row. This is another 20 million euros less that will be invested. In my opinion, this is an attack on my generation, which then has to deal with the consequences of climate change. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I don't understand about that would be: We have been in a stagnant economy for years, almost in an economic crisis. It must be said that it would really be one of the big reforms that could help us out if we said: We decide to make our economy more ecological, make the country more ecological! And for the reason – I give you an example –: Each year Austria imports oil and gas worth €13 billion from abroad. So this is oil and gas from abroad, and we pay 13 billion euros for it. That means 13 billion € go abroad, for example to Russia, Kazakhstan, to these regions there, and to oil companies – great! If we were to save this if we were to create the energy turnaround, that instead of oil we would so to speak, by the sun, by means of wind, get our energy, then we would of course leave this money. 13 billion €, that's as much as we spend on the entire education system, from kindergarten to school to university. This is an economic package with which we would create jobs, create jobs, create jobs! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would be an announcement as we would in our tax system: that we ecologize that we change the cars to electric mobility and that we generate energy with solar and wind power plants. I mean, that's an announcement, and in reality, there's no expert around the world who claims something else than that it's a solution and the way out of the current situation. - As far as the first point. Second point: Education policy. We are always told that precisely from your side and in the election campaign, education and a good education are the most important thing that they are the headquarters, especially for my generation, for us boy. And what's in the education budget? – There is no investment in the education budget! Some of you have turned out here and said: Yes, there are increases! – These are in the final effect only invoices that have to be paid in such a way that they are not investments. What I find is: When we look at what Finland is doing, what they have set up there for a school system, what really exists in Austria on great examples of schools, then I don't understand why we don't just take this as the maximum priority for the future, because every euro we put into education comes back four times in the future for my generation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I ask you: Keep your election promises and don't praise the blue from the sky! Now the last point: I'm sorry, it's not that there are any increases in the budget. The only one where there are budget increases is, for example, the military sector. I'm sorry, I'm saying there are arms companies that benefit... [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] - Yes, you're claping, great! I mean, arms companies benefit from this, while on the other hand, fifteen years have no job, have no training place. I mean, that's incredible! And to sell this as a success: What's that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Really, you're in the military – on the other hand, you're investing in climate change, I mean, I don't know what interests the oil industry has, so to speak, and which gates are open to the Austrian Federal Government. The OMC is, after all, the largest group in Austria; I think it's crazy that the de facto dictates what the future of my generation looks like. We Greens will not agree to this budget because it is not future-looking and because I want us to decide once a budget, in which we can really look into the mirror with good conscience and that is really an announcement that my generation can breathe up and that every youth in Austria has a chance that we will become a sustainable society, that we live in harmony with the environment and that the strong also help the weak. That would be my objectives, that would be our green goals, and I think that would be a budget that we should decide today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38184	Next speaker: Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38205	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Well, how is that supposed to be? Adolescence? Or misinformation? [[Abg. Julian Schmid: No!]] – Dear Julian, I would just like to remind you that we are not deciding today the budget, but tomorrow that we are talking about a budget of at least €77 billion for our state of Austria and are all taken into account! Now, of course, you can talk about it: Well, one would like more, but no one else wants less. – That’s also logical, I still understand human beings, but in total we have involved all the packages. In the field of youth training, another Council: Not for nothing has the Federal Government also decided on the training requirement for young people. And you stand out here and say, The economy is no longer okay, and everything in Austria is not all right, we shut down all industrial companies and then make youth policy with green electricity! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] – That’s not how it will be, but you’ll learn that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Back to our budget: What is important to me, Mrs Minister, is, of course, the flexible design of childcare money in the future. We really helped with the SPÖ and set a milestone with our coalition partner. We really have gone away consciously from the four types of package that have existed – or we are still here – to flexibility, which also involves men and family members. The only thing I really worry about – of course, it will have to be negotiated in the collective agreements – is this so-called papal month. This dad's month is a cannibal, I'm completely clear. We will then see how the economic party stands when we negotiate with the employers about whether this papal month can really be used in the first three months. I say that quite consciously, because there is no compulsory provision for this. But what we welcome is that we have expanded the 61 days to 91 days. After all, this is something that young fathers can really share in the care of their children. Of course, the care money itself is also welcome. Every child always gets a lot here, i.e. 15 449 €. That's not a small sum, you have to say – the Julian has gone out now –; if you count it up, that is, on all children, then this in the budget is already a big piece! It's not like we don't look at our kids and fry all the money. So in total, this budget is fine for us. Of course, we could also imagine a valorization in the future as regards family aid. We will, of course, continue to negotiate. I am also convinced that it will succeed in a few years that we will continue to take a step further. In this sense, there's an okay from me to the budget, dear Julian!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38264	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38285	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would also like to speak again on the subject of youth budget before false hopes arise here, as has often been explained by my previous speakers. The youth budget is not about the issues that young people may be concerned about – like their pensions, which they will not have at one time, training, universities – but mainly about youth promotion. It is €9 million, of which €7.3 million are paid as federal youth funding to the individual youth organisations. As we have already heard, the rates on which this is based have not been valorised since 2001. This means in the final effect a real loss of almost a quarter of the funds that are paid out there. My colleague El Habbassi has already explained: Youth organisations make an extremely important contribution in our society, including to integration. It is only then that you really realize what a value it is when young people work together for more education. I did not go into politics to ask for more money blindly everywhere. You can also talk about how the money is used. It is not particularly transparent. Our youth organizations, the JUNOS, make this very exemplary, they have listed all revenue and expenditure on their website. We believe that, in principle, when public funds are spent, organisations can also be required to say how they spend the money and what everything they consume. 20 percent of this youth funding has been distributed to youth organisations of the parties. We heard this from Mr Steger earlier; she's just outside, maybe she's coming in again. She was excited that the socialist youth – how was that once again? – Hetze operates. Apart from the fact that this is really not the case, I might like to point out that the Ring of Freedom Youth of course also receives youth promotion, and for example the real patriots... [[Abg. Brückl: Where does the hetze operate?]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls for greens and NEOS.]] - Hmm? I cite an example, and your youth organization in Upper Austria has such a website that it operates. It is called “real-patriots.at”, and it reads: ‘Real patriotin: Caro has pig in the kitchen and happiness in love.” Because: ‘A pig-bread (...) belongs to each Austrian menu.’ [[Abg. Brückl: That's hitz, isn't it?]] “True patriots love Austrian culture and stand on traditional domestic food.” – I am really sorry that I am not a patriot. [[Abg. Brückl: That's hitz?]] [[Further calls at FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I don't eat meat and feel very good with it. [[New calls at FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] These are the contents that are paid for, for example, youth promotion in Upper Austria. Your youth organization also receives €120 000 throughout the country, which I have just looked at. This is just a little less than the socialist youth gets. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] You know what? – If we want to promote democracy and the democratic commitment of young people, we cannot begin to sort what content we fit and which we do not fit. The aim is to promote the democratic commitment of all young people and also to teach them democracy. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] If that's not worth it to you, Mrs Steger, and say so! Tell me it's worth nothing to you if young people are involved in organizations that don't fit your content! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is not the promotion of young people, as I imagine it to be, so I also believe that we should urgently evaluate these rates and make more efforts to ensure that our youth organisations are properly financed – if we feel that they are valuable. I feel it is very valuable!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38391	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38439	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, with all possible criticisms, which will naturally be given to a budget, it is especially important to me now, even in the face of a fair presentation, to return a little to the subject and show what is going on in the field of families positive. The Minister of Family has already said it: It has begun with the goal of becoming the most family-friendly country. I think that's also something that's necessary. Not only do you sometimes feel that families, that children are more disturbed, is also critical from my point of view that the number of couples with children has been falling continuously for years. Therefore, the objectives 1 and 2 on the one hand have the burden compensation of families with children and without children on the other. and on the other hand the further improvement of the compatibility of family and profession. In this context, I am particularly concerned about the introduction of the child care account at the beginning of March. We will then encourage young families to realize the often existing desire for children if women can be sure that their children will be well cared for if they can be sure that they also have an adequate and good professional perspective with children, and if they have a partner with whom they share the work for young people. The childcare account opens up new opportunities for future parents. Family time, i.e. the opportunity for young fathers not only to experience the first weeks of the child but, hopefully, to participate, will bring more partnership. The same intention also follows the partnership bonus. Fathers who participate as much as possible in family work not only ensure a better father-child relationship, but also ensure that mothers can choose more freely in their own professional activity. How families shape their lives must make up their own lives – but to encourage people to create families should be in public interest. To improve the environment in this area is an essential part of creating this family-friendly climate. These conditions include the extension of childcare facilities: Both institutional institutions and day-old parents must be ready to do so so so that parents can really choose freely. All of these measures are budgeted for 2017, so this budget is again a building block on the way from Austria to the most family-friendly country. - Thank you to Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38494	The next item is Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38515	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The current figures are sobering: In Austria, more than 400 000 children and young people are vulnerable to poverty or are at risk of social exclusion for economic reasons. 107 000 children are considered to be significantly poor, their families often have no money for unforeseen expenditure or cannot heat enough. There is no mention at all of schoolland weeks or holidays. Children from one-parent households as well as from child-rich families are considered particularly vulnerable. Mrs Bundesminister, the last agreed reform of the childcare allowance provides more flexibility, but in all, less money is paid to the families, the maximum period is also lower. [[Federal Minister Karmasin: Not true!]] Furthermore, the agenda does not include the long-term automatic valorisation of family aid to the inflation rate. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have stressed both in the Committee and in the past that there have never been so many public funds invested in the Austrian families – but at the same time hundreds of millions of euros are also spent on foreign families each year. My colleague Anneliese Kitzmüller has already reported on this, and also the NEOS and the Greens have explained their comments. For years now, we liberals have been calling for the adjustment of transfers to the price level of the country of origin. Although the ÖVP is always talking about it and gives us liberties on this issue again and again, our requests have not yet been approved. Mrs. Federal Minister, you said earlier that you will continue to pursue the subject and work on it firmly – it is now really high time for you to finally come to terms with the ÖVP. In the case of record unemployment, falling real wages and rising cost of living, family benefits that flow abroad must finally be limited. This brings more than €100 million of savings – money that we have to make available to our poor, vulnerable Austrian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38555	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38576	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Then I would like to stress to my previous speaker that it is really an ever-increasing task and challenge for all of us to face the problem of how difficult it is to cope with low incomes in terms of living costs. I still think that you need to keep an eye on and think about what you can do with what you can do. We must ensure that we make the appropriate labour market policy so that people – families, men, women – have appropriate jobs, from which you can also live in order to cope with expenditure. With regard to the issue of family allowances to children living abroad, I am in favour of clarifying measures whether they are fair or whether they can be more just. Although we live in the so-called postal age, I think that we should take a balanced and fact-based analysis in order to come up with fair solutions. For example, a former Wifo expert has now to bear in mind that the counter-effect of a removal could be that, for example, more children will be brought to Austria. We should look at how this then affects the financing of training places and schools, and what it costs, how it does, when 24-hour workers no longer get this money, then no longer stay in Austria and go abroad to their children, and then we open up a problem zone. It is therefore necessary to weigh different pages on these topics. I think the Minister will present a concept and consider such aspects accordingly, and then we will discuss this with each other on the basis of the facts. I should like to highlight two positive points from the budget, for which we have been strengthening for many years: Firstly, the development of childcare facilities will be continued, and we will take important steps. It has already been said that we cannot invest enough in early promotion, in the early support of our children. So these are important measures that are provided for in the budget. Secondly, The flexible child money account is something for which I have personally been strong for many years and what I am very pleased that this is getting on the way. It's a model that allows families to adapt to tailor-made models. There is a fixed sum per child available, and the respective family can apportion this sum accordingly: either refer to shorter and refer to more money each month or longer, and for that purpose less money per month – just as it is suitable for the respective family and the corresponding living situation. These are two measures by many I would like to highlight, in which it is important that we set them up together.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38627	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38649	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! We are very glad that we have such a courageous minister who today announces to all serious that Austria would be the most family-friendly country – or at least close to it, on the way, if I have understood it correctly. Mrs Minister, the most family-friendly country, we are when parents no longer have to worry from the first year of their child's life, where they can have the child cared for! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The most family-friendly country we are when we have the best childcare facilities in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] We are the most family-friendly country if we can keep up with Scandinavia, France and other countries. [[Abg. Strasser: Do we have to abolish the family?- Oh, my God!]] – I have already explained to you, Mr Strasser: My son in Hamburg had no problem having his child cared for from the first year of life, and he had the right to do so, from there we are miles away in Austria! [[Call the ÖVP:Super!]] This budget does not help us to move forward in this direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: How to abolish the family?- Oh, my God!]] Now I'm not saying nothing has happened in recent years. Finally, we have finally put in place measures to extend childcare facilities. [[Interference of Federal Minister Karmasin.]] For example, we have kindergarten development – the Article 15a agreement – which continues to run and is not directly related to the budget now, we have the free kindergarten year, we have the language promotion. All in all, €234 million is estimated – that's not nothing, but it's far too little, ladies and gentlemen. Look at the topic of the most family-friendly country: I've been looking at what you've done in your government program. Three examples: To Kindergarten you say, for the three-year-olds you want to reach the Barcelona target by 2017. This would be next year – you have already announced: No, that's not going to happen, only 2020. [[Federal Minister Karmasin: I didn't say that!]] So the government programme is not being fulfilled! They have taken action in the government programme to improve the training of kindergarten teachers – this is urgently necessary! Austria is the final European light on what the education is about, we are training our kindergarten teachers only at secondary level II! – No, I recognize the work of our educators. [[Abg. Strasser: But you do excellent work! Do you want the work of our educators...?]] They always come with the same argument, but you know just as I do that training is the shortest in us. You know how I know that this training starts far too early for fifteen-year-old girls, while in the rest of Europe they only start at eighteen, 19 years, and that is the crucial point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What you also have in the government programme is a mandatory second kindergarten year. Where are measures in this direction? – Not even that you have achieved, and now we are at the 2017 budget – no measures. 2018 would be the regular National Council election, and I do not think you will reach that until then. – Unfortunately, little is going on. Now I come to a few little things. For this purpose, brief written inquiries have been made to you, which you have gratefully answered. It is about the education compass, for example, that you have emphasized this yourself. The question is to what extent this further design of the education compass is taken into account on a budgetary basis. – Short answer: This is not taken into account in the budget. Second question: There is an urgent need for a uniform national quality framework for kindergartens. It's about closing days, it's about group sizes et cetera. What about the implementation of this uniform quality framework, and what is the budget for it? – Your answer: Implementation ‘has not been included in the budget of the BMFJ’. [[Interference of Federal Minister Karmasin.]] Third question: It is about the extension efforts in the care offer, because we do not only want more kindergartens, but we want high-quality kindergartens, so we need to constantly evaluate whether the requirements are taken into account accordingly. Answer: ‘This has not been the case in 2017.’ Mrs. Minister, please excuse me: Take your own government programme at least seriously, that would be a first essential step. Then we can start talking about whether we are really taking steps towards the most child-friendly country in Europe. We're miles away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38825	Mrs Steger referred to an actual correction. – Please, explain to us the facts you want to correct!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38849	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gamon claimed that I would have called into question the promotion of youth organisations. – That does not correspond to the facts. The only promotions I have called into question are the payments made by the Red Ministry of Ads in a booklet of socialist youth. This is not precisely a matter of promoting young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38884	Next item is the report by Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e38906	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walser! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Please, Mr Walser, every reasonable person knows that the first year of life in a child's life is crucial for further development. [[Call the FPÖ:Every reasonable person!]] Read the brain researchers, that's all I'm saying! – You should know this as a former school director, Mr Walser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Walser.]] One thing I would like to stress here: I have listened to the whole discussion now, and one thing we certainly do not like here, namely that this budget is being mistreated. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is €3.4 billion for family support alone, and the family and youth budget can be seen. That the whole thing is not a wish concert, we can assume. Everyone knows that – doesn't it? However, I do not believe that it is legitimate to blame Mrs Karmasin for not trying and not getting the best out of the department. I do not think so, therefore, there is from my side a congratulation on the measures. I believe that we are really on the right path to becoming the most family-friendly country in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the topic of family aid abroad, because here I always hear from the Green Club that this is a debate of envy or that is about fairness: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is about fairness, but about fairness to the Austrians. It is about fairness to the people who pay their taxes in Austria. If you hear that we can save €100 million, then it is clear to everyone who is reasonable that you could spend this money on education, innovation, research – family – et cetera. [[Federal Minister Karmasin: Family!]] There is no objection to this indexing and to reducing family aid to the level that exists in that country where the children live, ladies and gentlemen. There's nothing there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] In 2013, Austria paid € 192 million of family allowances for 94 000 children, including the compensation and the amount of child dropover, and two years later, in 2015, it was already € 249 million for 122 000 children. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a barrel without soil, it can't be, it must inform every reasonable person. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: 25,000 children!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] I also think it is good that Mr Kuntzl has said here that we should deal with the subject with a certain amount of matter. I believe that it is also important for taboo discussions to be held at the pan-European level. I would like us to bring together an all-party proposal, send it to Brussels, and say: Austria argues that the level of family support is adjusted to the local level, to the cost of living in the country concerned. I don't think we'd have anything to give in there, I don't think so. [[Call the FPÖ: How long have we been paying for this?]] I do not mean that it is necessary to have a debate on this subject. You can deal with this kind of thing, but I think it's a failure if you discuss it objectively and appropriately. This is done at the federal level, and I have full confidence in the Federal Minister, that this will also be implemented and that Austria will build up a pressure in the European concert that comes to reason. I don't think anything else makes sense. I congratulate Mrs Bundesminister on this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39018	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39042	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ertlschweiger claimed that it would be 150,000 children who would be paid for family aid. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: He didn't say!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Or 142 000 children. [[Call to the ÖVP:122,000!]] – Okay, 122 000 cases where family aid is transferred abroad. It is true that there are 24 498 children in the 28 EU countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39099	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39121	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From actual corrections now back to the budget, breakdown 25: families and youth. The family budget will amount to almost €7 billion in 2017, which is 8.9 percent of the total budget. According to the Federal estimates, these deposits will amount to approximately € 6.6 billion in 2017, but this is less than in the previous year: In 2016 it was approximately €7.3 billion. Reduced revenue in the family compensation fund: In 2017, there will be a deficit of approximately €102 million, and by 2018 this deficit, ladies and gentlemen, will account for over €450 million. Mrs Minister, you said it had never been spent so much on families and children in Austria. - That's not true. In 2017, there are payments of €6.88 billion, in 2016 there were payouts of €7.07 billion – almost 3 percent less than in the previous year, which is exactly 2.8 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it has often been mentioned by my previous speakers: The family is important! The family and the children are the foundation of a thriving democracy and there must not be saved in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39170	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39192	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! In Austria, there are currently around two million families with children, and that is why the 2017 budget must also be taken into account, Ms. Minister, that child welfare is at the heart of all future measures. The important step towards improving the compatibility of family and work with the new child care account and the so-called papal month is naturally taken into account in this budget. This measure is a success for our families, which will no longer depend on a rigid fixed-rate system from March next year, but will be able to design and plan a flexible and individual job and family time. In addition, I would like to point out, as in the last 2016 budget, that Austria is well in the OECD section with the family benefits, but we need to achieve and manage to invest more in benefits in kind and to increase benefits for children and families, as money from the budget comes one by one from the children with benefits in kind. A goal formulated in the government programme is to grant a second kindergarten free of charge for parents, which we believe should also be introduced. The training and care of children from childhood does not mean to abolish families, as Mr Strasser of the ÖVP presented it. In order to create freedom of choice, it takes a first step of choice, i.e. freedom of choice requires choice. Only where this option exists is it possible to decide, as a family, as a parent, whether to go into the profession or stay at home with the family, in which direction you want to go. I agree positively with the further expansion of the childcare facilities, which will enable us to offer child care places for 33 percent of the young children next year in the shortest possible time. My focus is on a high quality standard, which must also apply to all educational institutions for this group of young children. We must manage to guarantee uniform quality, high quality throughout the country. This must be decided by the focus. That is why my yes is also a general, nationally uniform elemental educational quality framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39229	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39250	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Families and youth are the basis of our future. Education, profession and housing are crucial prerequisites for ensuring the future. Children, young people, living rooms cause costs, which are often scarce or difficult to manage by families and especially single parents, so that the state is required. Unfortunately, family no longer has the importance and the value of past decades. Divorces are on the agenda and cause Additional costs, and the most vulnerable, the children, that is, our future, often stay on track. In order to prevent this, the social state is under obligation. Our children and our youth have a right to education. Unfortunately, as in many other areas, refugee waves have a negative effect. In particular, primary school classes with partly more than 50 percent children, who are only poor and not powerful in our mother tongue, are as difficult as innumerable integrative parents, who often boycott their children's support. It is therefore necessary to invest in the protection, promotion and development of our children and young people and to provide appropriate programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39283	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39304	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One could also compare a family with a tree, deeply rooted in the earth, equipped with many branches, leaves and flowers. Pour this tree well, then there is also a corresponding rich harvest. Part of this care is also well covered by the extensive family benefits. These payments and thus the recognition of family benefits are also guaranteed by the budget in the coming year. What are important building blocks? – For example, family aid of €3.41 billion and an increase of €60 million per year. Let us remember: In 2014, there were plus 4 per cent of family aid, plus 1.9 per cent this year, and in 2018 there will be the next increase in family aid. The child care money is 1.17 billion €, which means a plus of 44 million €. And with the child care account from March 2017, the freedom of choice for the families will be increased accordingly, and there is a bonus for the father's participation. Not to be forgotten, especially when you think about the compatibility of family and profession, is also the expansion of childcare facilities. Money that we give to families as support will not only benefit the children, but also go directly into consumption because it strengthens the purchasing power of the families. Maybe we should consider that too. Population development, birth rate has already been addressed a few times today. One could also look a little into the future. If we find that we have 1,4, 1,5 children per woman in Austria and that the systems will continue to work in the future, we will need more births or it will be filled up by addition. When you think about moving in, it is especially important that this one proceeds with a measure of attention. Integration is a crucial factor. We should focus heavily on the children, because they are valuable multipliers. A crucial point for children with non-German mother tongues is learning the German language, and not only the language, but also the values. It is about meeting the expectations of the local population and taking into account future needs. I would like to stress very consciously that it is important that we look at those kindergartens that do not take this into account or do not yet take into account in the appropriate form, for example the Muslim kindergartens in Vienna. I am also glad – this has already been mentioned a few times today – about the discussion on the family allowance for children abroad whose parents live in Austria. Mr Ertlschweiger has already mentioned figures. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Wrong!]] According to the Family Ministry's report, families from EU/EEA countries are 122,000 children, and we are talking about 249 million euros. It is therefore important to see that Austria will be supported in the future at EU level so that we can share something for the benefit of the Austrian families.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39341	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39362	Mr President. Minister! Family is always an emotional and social issue, which is not just about money. Actually, the money in the value family should only play a secondary role. That is why some objectives have been properly formulated in the budget estimate, a whole series of objectives which, in my view, are not all correctly formulated. Point 1, fertility rate: This has already been mentioned several times today. It is currently 1.49. I've found a certain pride that this rate is now rising a little, but it's still 1.49, 1.5. Ladies and gentlemen, from a biomathematic point of view, a rate of 1.49 is an extinction rate. Thus, in three to four generations one is free of one's own ethnicity, one's identity as an Austrian people. That's what everyone can calculate. A fertility rate, which brings us over the rounds in the longer term and would be useful for Austria demographically, is 2.1. Therefore, I do not understand why the fertility rate is set at 1.49 as a target. It's an extinction rate, and nothing else. Unfortunately, you have to say that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I was also disappointed that the objective of reducing the number of abortions and accompanying measures can not be found in the action catalogue. This or its implementation has always been promised to us by various governments for 40 years. The implementation of such measures has already been announced by Bruno Kreisky and has not yet taken place. Unfortunately, there is nothing in it about this really important objective, nor about the statistics that we need in order to capture abortions. I'm talking about anonymous statistics, anonymous abortion statistics. It was always the goal of the ÖVP that we finally got it in Austria. Together with Portugal, we are the last country in the EU, which does not have such a thing. I consider this to be unworthy of a modern civilized state, not to say disgraceful. Another measure that I miss in the catalogue of measures, in the target catalogue in the budget, is the question of mass migration and the many people who will employ us in the future. In Germany, it has already become a powerful political issue, as one deals with children's ewes, with the multiple ewes. What are we doing? I have already asked that in committee, and I was referred to the Ministry of Justice, which is certainly right. But I think that's a cross-sectional matter that also concerns the Ministry of Family Affairs and all of us. I think we have to deal with these questions very intensively. What do we do with childhood? What do we do with many people? They come in, and from the subjective legal point of view of the arrivals, it is required that one can continue to perform and maintain these marriages here as well. I think that is a very massive and serious question that we must devote ourselves to. The financial questions that migration raises for us are also not mentioned. There are massive costs, quite massive costs. We all know that Refugee billions have just been doubled. But we don't know what this costs in the family sector. I would have liked to have found something in the target and action catalogue. At the end of the day, I would like to join with Mr Kitzmüller's request from the FPÖ that four years be charged for the pension per child. I think that is absolutely meaningful and necessary. One must strengthen the families, namely the classical families. This too has been mentioned several times today. The classical traditional family is the germ cell of society and will always stay. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39413	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Loacker to speak. Deputies! Please make a preliminary request: If you're done with the actual correction, please take the Taferl with you to the clubman Lugar. [[Abg. May. Loacker takes the Taferl.]] Thank you. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39450	Mr President. Mr Prince said that we have 1.4 children per woman. I'm actually correcting: The women have the children.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39477	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39498	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I can correct my colleague, Königsberger-Ludwig: According to the Ministry's information, there are, in fact, 122 000 children who received about € 249 million in family aid in 2015. So the figures reported by Mr Ertlschweiger are right. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: There are other numbers!]] The previous speakers have already delivered a lot of figures and facts and presented very, very much. Of course, there is a lot of bad talk about what has already happened, as in the words of Mr Walser. You can always see everything from two different sides, and therefore it is very important to highlight the positive points over and over again. In recent years, something has happened: The increase in family allowances – which has already been mentioned – has been done a total of three times. The applicationless family allowance is also a great relief for the families. It is also very important for the future that the development of childcare facilities continues to be forced. This makes it easier for parents to get back into work, and it is a big step towards the reconciliation of family and work that young parents are very much in need of. A very important point for me is the reckoning of child training periods for the pension, which is very important for many women so that they do not get out badly when they retire. There has already been talk of choices today. I think it's very important that the parents can decide for themselves. It is a very important point for us that they can decide for themselves what they want to do when, namely let the children care for them, stay at home themselves, or whatever. This is a very important point for us in the future too. At this point – we are always talking about care facilities – I can say a great thank you to the grandparents, the grandmothers, the grandparents, and also to the day-parents. They contribute a great deal to making family life better and happier. We make Austria even more family-friendly, because our future lies in the children and the youth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39535	On the sub-division of families and youth, I have no further words available. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[18:54:17]] UG 30: Education
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39556	We come to the negotiation of subheading 30: Education. First speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39581	Mr President. Minister! – Ms Minister, it did not ring a school bell that opened up the education sector. [[Federal Minister Hammerschmid takes place on the government bank.]] But that's not a problem, the few seconds are apologised. It is true that in the education sector we have a large budget with well over €8 billion. It is very encouraging and fundamental to note that there is also a nice increase in the form of several hundred million euros over the next few years. That is absolutely welcome, and, of course, you cannot have anything. We have just held a debate on families and young people and also on the prospects for the future of young people, and a very essential area is, of course, education, also in terms of financial and budgetary planning, and that is how it is very, very pleasing. However, from our liberal point of view, but not only from our liberal point of view, the question should be asked whether it is right to invest these immense funds in the expansion of the whole day school, especially the restricted form of the whole day school. This is highly questionable, but it is a matter of questioning the extent to which this can really be achieved better. Even experts complain of the lack of valid scientific studies – except for very few exceptions, for example from Germany. These studies indicate that there is a better social behaviour of children in such schools. However, they do not really prove that there is an improvement in schooling. The improvement in social behaviour is only possible if schooling is carried out under very optimal conditions. So it is not proven that our children would learn more in this form of restricted all day lessons, even though they spend the whole day in school. The only one who screams according to Hurra – and thus I come back to Austria as the most family-friendly country, Mr. Wöginger of the ÖVP before They are, on the one hand, the IV, the economy, and, on the other, the Chamber of Workers. The reason for this is rather that it is about the compatibility of work and family, but not necessarily the quality of education or the future prospects of the students. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I personally rather share the opinion of a representative of compulsory school teachers, who meant that the children, especially in the primary and primary schools, are sorry if they have to be in school all day and have no more opportunity to withdraw and the like. Of course, there are groups of people who would benefit from it, which is no question at all. I am thinking of socially weak families in urban areas, especially migrant families. They would definitely benefit, that's not a question. However, we have free will, and this raises the question of the voluntary use of migrant families. So we'll be back at the force very soon, but you'll argue that there's to be this compulsion. I'm excited how long this is going on. No question, in areas of focus, one should remember that this limited day-to-day instruction should also be extended. That's not a theme. But to introduce that across the back door is simply not all right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you want to, you can also say that we are ideologically forced to be congratulated. What else happens in the field of education and education? – Of course, we have a big problem, which also meets this area and not just the family area, the family resort that we have already discussed in detail today: Through integration or mass immigration, huge costs are already on us or are currently on the rise. But I see here more symptom control than the fight against causes. Everyone knows the liberal requirement that the German language should be dominated before entry into the regular education system. That might solve a lot of problems. However, if one wants to eliminate the cause fundamentally, it is about combating mass immigration. Another area which is not taken into account in this budget is broadband, the Internet connection for schools. There are terrifying facts, so not all compulsory schools or schools in Austria are provided with the Internet, with Wi-Fi. There would be a need for urgent action. We have experience reports that in vocational schools practical education is no longer possible, because there is simply too little equipment for it. The basic question to be asked is based on the dispute between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Education on the issue of efficiency. How much money actually comes into the classrooms is not really clear either, for, Mrs Minister, it is simply not enough to say: 90 percent go into personnel costs and infrastructure! without differentiating how much of this staff works in administration and the like, so that the money may not actually arrive in the classroom. I am still excited about this and I am still waiting for clarification, but the Minister of Finance, shortly after you in the teaching committee, has doubted that this is actually happening in the classroom. For us liberals, therefore, there is an urgent need for a cassade and measures to increase efficiency. Of course, it plays mass immigration combined with integration that would be to be illuminated. We believe that a clear course should be taken when it comes to maintaining freedom of choice, maintaining the differentiated school system. For We are also very clear about the departure of left-wing utopia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39675	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39696	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2017 budget sets clear educational policy priorities – even my previous speaker has recognised – by investing more specifically and in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer]] [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Every euro invested in education is well-connected money. This is an investment in the future, and we cannot leave anyone behind. That is why, Mr President, school forms are being invested in all day, so that we do not leave a child behind and that children are best encouraged in the afternoon. The children are not to be promoted themselves, the television, the mobile phone, the play station, but qualified, in a viable and learning environment, and therefore very many resources are taken into consideration. [[Abg. Mölzer: Maybe...! This is done by simply closing small schools...!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Mölzer.]] In addition to this 8.6-billion-€ budget, a three-quarters of a billion will be made available for the development of school forms throughout the day, so that they can also invest in the spatial infrastructure, so that this living environment is created in which children feel comfortable throughout the school day, but also during holidays if necessary. [[Abg. Mölzer: No club activity, no music lessons!]] [[Abg. Mölzer: For this they do not live in the family all day!]] This is why the school infrastructure – for example, together with the school development programme in sports facilities – is also invested so that the sports facilities are also equipped and better integrated into the communities and can also be used more comprehensively. [[Abg. Mölzer: For the economy!]] This is also a recovery for the construction industry, for the economy, so this is certainly also an economic package. [[Abg. Mölzer: It is only about the economy, not about the children!]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Language promotion for children with or without migration backgrounds is intensified, it remains a great focus, and of course the integration of refugee children is a major challenge, for which 80 million € are additional available, especially for language start-up courses. However, it is also very important that the adult education initiative is maintained, an EU-funded programme. We have always said – and the European Commission has now confirmed to us – that in Austria the socio-economic background is still crucial for the further education career and for educational success, and that is why the Minister of Education is absolutely on the right track with her idea of an index of opportunities. I really want to appeal to everyone: Let's get her to work! This is the right way to establish education justice in order to create equal opportunities in Austria, so that Austria can continue to succeed in the future and a peaceful social partnership can be lived. In this sense, thank you very much for this great commitment and thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39810	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39832	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We have heard in recent days, including the budget speech by Mr Finanzminister, that there is a proper investment, that there are increases in education and that there are clear priorities for this. The interesting thing is that if you look at the budget analysis published by Parliament's budget service, there are other results. [[Keeping a document in height]] The budget service notes that if we compare the education budget over the years, we have a minus from this year to the next year, a small, but a minus, of an increase, nothing stands here: minus 0.1 percent of the disbursements at the UG 30. Mrs Minister, this is your budget, there is nothing that can be seen from an increase in the budget service, and I must say: I can't see it either. Why are these inconsistencies coming about? – This is very easy: For years, the educational budget – among which your predecessors have suffered, and you cannot be blamed for it. We have a structural deficit and that for many years. The same procedure shall be established each year: We decide on a budget that we know – with “we” being relative – the government parties decide – that it cannot keep. There is then an authorisation to shoot money, which is perfectly clear, but the Minister of Education is of course put under pressure accordingly. Mrs Minister, you have us very clearly on your side, because this is going to continue, because the budget you are going to decide, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, has a structural deficit that we already know will be 191 million euros. The Minister himself admitted it to the teaching committee. We know that now, and you decide! We know it can't hold, we have to shoot. So a little more serious should be the approach to budgets! I brought you a little more, let's see how the teaching budget has developed over the years: [[Keeping a table on the level of expenditure on military and education as compared to GDP]] We have here as starting point the year 2012, end point is 2020. You see, the blue line pointing up, that is the already existing increase in GDP, gross domestic product, the other, the red line, is the increase we have in military expenditure over the course of these eight years. We all know that security is a big issue, that is no question at all. The essential thing for a safe country is a educated population – we know that too. And now we're looking at the education budget: We have over eight years of growth, which does not even make up the inflation rate, at 5 percent. That is the budgetary truth, that is the reality, not what we hear again and again in propaganda speeches! Let us also look at some of the priorities of this budget – there are positive approaches, and we have repeatedly noted in discussions, Mrs Minister, that you have recognized where we need to focus –: This is in the area of language promotion, which is in the field of day-to-day schools, no question, that is in the area of integration, since it is necessary to set priorities. You are also trying to do so, I am sure you will, but these are the facts, and the facts say that is too little! Today, the “standard” reads: ‘Ganztagsschule: Banknote for the countries’. – This refers to the € 750 million mentioned by Mr Grossmann. We are also unable to create clear structures. We are also unable to set educational priorities that are useful. We all know that the whole day school in the restricted form has a positive impact on the social behaviour of the students – which has even been admitted by the liberals. [[Abg. Mölzer:... but the best conditions!]] This is not a question, we do not have to discuss it at all. So: Let us take action, because all teachers complain about how difficult it is to teach these days. That would be a step in the right direction. Inclusion: How do we deal with children with special needs. There are also clear shortcomings. We know that the rate of 2.7 percent grant is far too little. For example, parents from Styria complained that they would not have a place for their child and that they would therefore consider moving from Styria to Vienna. That's a scandal! This is an educational scandal to which we see more or less indignantly. Reforms are on. In fact, we only need to implement what the Court of Auditors has been preaching to us for years, if not decades: simplifying the school structure. We must do this – the study of the Chamber of Labour has already been addressed – which is urgently needed, namely to give money where it is particularly necessary, that is to say, to the so-called focal schools, but also to rural areas; Mr Maurer will then put forward another motion for a resolution. These are clear demands that we have been preaching for years, only the measures in this direction are clearly too few. GDP – here again – and the increase in GDP are central to the level of education. [[Keeping the table in height again]] If we want GDP to increase social wealth, then we need to invest more in education than we are currently doing. This is urgently necessary. Education is essential for security, for the economy, for social justice. Unfortunately, I cannot find anything in this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39877	Mr President, the request has not been submitted. [[Abg. Walser: He's being brought in by the colleague!]] - Well, he'll be brought in later. The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39909	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to start by thanking you, Mrs Federal Minister, and also Mr Finanzminister. Thank you for having more resources for our children and investing them in future areas. Education is an essential factor in the development of a society and one of the most important growth factors for an economy. [[Abg. Walser: (retaining the table in height) This is reality!]] What we can and must expect from educational institutions is for all people to have access to education and training and to be picked up where they stand, because only then will it be possible to maintain and strengthen quality of life, competitiveness and social cohesion in our society in the future. I think that is one of the primary tasks of education. With this budget – so that we also call the figures – €8.6 billion goes to school, which is €560 million more than last year. Of course, a significant part of it goes to the salaries and building infrastructure, such as renting, but also to the new building. Since, I think, there is a certain margin available, in addition to the BIG you should also talk to the competitors here and invite them to offer. Another billion, which also benefits from this budget – and that is absolutely new – comes from paying off the bank levy. [[Abg. Walser:... a billion announced, 250 banks are getting back again!]] 750 million of them are available for child and family-friendly all day care until 2025, which is also at your heart, dear Harald. We also stand here for freedom of choice, i.e. the right to decide on the spot what is needed. It is important for us that, in addition to the limited form that we already have, there is, above all, an unlimited form available, so that it can be chosen, what the individual child and what the individual family think is correct and important. Countries will be able to directly grant some of these funds, for example for the conversion of horten into full-day school forms, but with the provision of quality support, and last but not least, funds will flow into an educational foundation for innovative and creative school projects. I therefore think this is so important and important, because I have quoted Mr. Zeilinger during the last debate, who thought he was thinking in unconventional paths. I think that an educational foundation, where educational institutions can submit projects, is a means to initiate and implement unusual and unconventional projects. The current EU education monitoring clearly shows that digital education needs to be seen in the context of the economy. The way of digitization has long been established, the economy is developing at a rapid pace, and it is the duty of the hour to be active in education as well. For the school sector, this means giving autonomy and responsibility where decisions are to be made. It is important to us to rely on the competences and experiences of the school partners. However, digitalisation also has a technological component, so it is necessary to ensure the provision of technical infrastructure without delay. I mean, there can and must be more speed in implementation. Today, too, it is the opportunity to note that Austrian teachers, school directors and administrators also work full day-to-day to meet the challenges that have, of course, been raised by the integration of refugee children recently, in order to meet these challenges within the meaning of our children. I am not analyzing today the reasons why this should happen in another debate and under another chapter. However, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who work in the school system for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39966	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e39987	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Citizens, Citizens! Dear parents, students and whoever watches here! We are negotiating the budget chapter on education, and, Mrs Minister, of course, NEOS will not be able to agree to this budget chapter. I don't think you can expect that either. As in recent years, you've been presenting a budget chapter here, which just has a giant hole. I think that this is a disdain for Parliament, of course also for a lack of respect for the education of matter. Mrs Minister, there is no other area of content in this budget where the structural hole, i.e. the hole in the budget, is as large as in the education sector and where we simply say: Let's start in the new year, knowing we're missing millions, namely, €191 million. – I think this is unfair to all those who work in the education system. I think it unfair to the young people who should also have the assurance that as a republic they take good care of what will help them in the future, namely, good education. Of course, I can personally recognize that you're getting into the stuff, but it obviously doesn't find enough contradiction in the entire government, otherwise it wouldn't be another time that you just started a structural hole all year round. Of course, the results of the financial compensation are also debilitating. I quote a statement from April of 2016, which says: ‘In the context of the financial compensation negotiations (...) and the implementation of the education reform, the actual financial requirements of the UG 30 in autumn 2016 – that is, the budget chapter – will be evaluated ‘(...) for the years 2016 to 2020’ and then ‘covered’. - That's what it was in spring. Now in autumn it says: We will evaluate, but stop in spring 2017, and then cover. So here, too, more questions remain than solutions, and where there are solutions, it is particularly sad because in education policy, once again – and this is disturbing for this country – the national princes have enforced. I think the march is good and right, but if I see you disseminating the funds for the whole day school, namely that you make a kneefall again in front of the princes, I have to say that is a great disappointment. They have originally announced in the committee that there will be a federal office and the schools will go directly with a job, i.e. a one-stop shop, into the exchange. Then you had to open in one step: Well, the countries will speak for themselves, it will happen on the recommendations of the countries, and now a third will come into the hands of the princes of the country. And they will manage this third as stupidly as everything in the field of education, namely, according to power policy and party policy considerations. That's a great disappointment, there's a real chance. In any case, I would like to support you next year with the opportunity bonus or opportunity index as you call it. Of course, we need implementation. Here's the appeal to the ÖVP: The division of society happens naturally and is through the school system, as we have set it up today, is immensely fueled. We are in a duty here to come up with solutions that are successful; and other countries are living up to this, for example the Netherlands. The opportunity index or bonus, as we call it, would be a working instrument here. We'll fight side by side, and I think that's important. In conclusion – one thing, you have left out a chance; personally I would have estimated you, Mrs. Minister, otherwise because you are in and out of innovation -: We continue to discriminate against free schools massively. 80 percent of the costs in conventional private schools are reimbursed, in non-confessional only 10 percent. We say: Dear educators, dear parents, pay for it yourself, if you are particularly committed. – I just don't think that's okay. It would be €30 million that would trigger an insanity innovation boost. That is why I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want free school choice without debt. We want an educational transition from below. Free schools are immensely important for this. Let's encourage her! Let's not slow her down!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40063	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40118	Mrs Hammerschmid spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40139	Mr President. Appreciate Members of the House! I would like to take the opportunity to give myself a brief overview of the education budget 2016 and 2017. As you all know, in the financial year 2016 we assumed a loss of around € 518 million, which was met with the planned revision of the Federal Finance Act, with a maximum of € 525 million. That means that liquidity for this year is in any case secured. What has been successful in the last few negotiations – and I can thank you for that – is that this long-standing structural deficit has been greatly reduced for the first time. We got more in the basic budget of UG 30 300 million €. You have to see very carefully what numbers you compare to each other in order not to make comparisons with apples and pears, but to make them fair. We have added €300 million to the budget base, with the agreement that after the financial compensation has been completed in February 2017, we will simply look at the financial requirements together with the Minister of Finance once again to cover this deficit, which we make up in the order of € 191 million essentially for next year and also for the following years, and to discuss exactly how we deal with it. The €191 million is still on the move, because we cannot, of course, pre-empt the collective wage increase negotiations. We have budgeted relatively generously. That means, I assume, just as it was last year, that it's going to be less. [[Abg. Walser: Where half a billion are missing, that's a little bit!]] - That's the summary. Because the story has already been back in the room, we do not know where the money comes from, I would like to do it again now so that you know the essential posts. The salaries of the state teachers are of the €8.6 billion 45.6 percent, and the federal teachers' salaries are 37.08 percent. In the school room, BIG and school room, 6.26 percent, in administrative staff at federal schools 1.81 percent, the administrative staff, speak: the entire staff in the Federal Ministry and in the state school councils, is 1.62 percent. Then there is still a considerable effort for federal schools and homes of 2.9 percent. The rest are smaller posts. When we sum this up, we see very accurately and very quickly the scope for action of the Ministry of Education. If we only take the personnel costs together with the BIG and school room costs, then we see that over 92 percent go to teachers' salaries and school room. Whoever says the money isn't coming to school, I really can't understand it. We really invest this money in the classes, in the students. Students benefit from this. If we accept the further legal obligations – in particular the BIFIE, the agreements under Article 15a B-VG, which again concern schools, as they address the expansion of all-day school forms and are still falling in 2017 and 2018, and also the promotion of studies – we are at 95 percent committed budget, which really ends directly in school. In the next year's budget – and this has already been strangled very briefly today – the €80 million from the Integration Stop II has already been included. I would particularly like to stress this. We know about the challenges that educators face in individual schools, and of course we want to support the educators accordingly. These €80 million are budgeted and address in particular language promotion courses, language start-up courses in compulsory schools, but also in higher schools. Social pedagogists, psychologists as well as transition stages are added to lead young people to higher schools or to pass them on to the regular school and the regular school system. These are important integrative measures to include the children, and especially refugee children, as soon as possible in our society. I warmly thank the educators that they responded quickly with commitment in 2015 and that these children and young people quickly joined the class associations, giving them structure, holding and a sense of cohesion. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Walser.]] As has already been mentioned, these integration stop-II funds will also be allocated along an index of opportunities which is particularly important to me. For the first time, we are testing the allocation of these funds according to a chance index containing two indicators, namely German as not an initial language – that is, children who do not have German as the first language – and the education of parents, in particular compulsory schooling. With these two indicators, we control the integration stopper II via the Chance Index and experience how effectively this opportunity index can be in the distribution of resources to provide it with the other budgets in the future. What is not yet apparent in the budget is the day-to-day school, the expansion of all-day school forms in the amount of € 750 million added from the bank levy. This too is a matter of my heart because this package addresses the issue of equal opportunities. It is a project for social justice, for social peace, for living together and for cohesion in our society, because these children are jointly cared for and taught over the day, have opportunities for play and fun, and because clubs can work with them both from the sporting corner and from the musical area et cetera. Learning can happen in a special way, and that is what we want to address with the € 750 million. 500 million of them go exclusively in the development of all day schools, in additional places. I really want to stress this, because our goal is to double the quota of students in all-day school forms, saying to come from 20 to 40 percent. Furthermore, the 20-kilometre radius is to be placed, you know that. These €500 million will be granted directly through the federal government. They pass through criteria that we define, directly to the school locations, to the school holders. The €250 million granted through the federal states will also be distributed along this law, along clear criteria. The federal states will report annually on the investment of this money in school forms throughout the day. I really want to stress that. There is freedom of choice. You know that the Article 15a agreement – I just mentioned – is still active for the years 2017 and 2018. These are over €200 million available through the Article-15a agreement for open school forms. For this reason, you will find the first two years in the 750-million-€ package for restricted all day schools – so that it can be clearly and transparently presented, which is supported in which lines. There are no double promotions. There are no double-tracks, but really a nice balance between these two strands, and from 2019 there will be full freedom of choice in the 750-million-€ package. The inclusion issue, you know, is a particularly important concern to me. We also want to address this more closely. There we have the model regions as learning regions, where we can learn, implement, widen out, and roll out when we are so far. Digitalisation was also a short topic today. We're facing a huge challenge. I'm really aware of this. We want to develop a concept and are in the process of structuring this concept as a whole, in order to then place the corresponding budgetary requirements. With the autonomy package you all know, we want to trigger this innovation boost – in all schools we have in Austria, for 1.2 million students together with 120,000 educators. It's a heart attack. This autonomy package must come into existence next year. It is a very extensive field of activity with many challenges, many measures to be taken and which we must bring into being. I'm looking forward to the success of this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40193	Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your comments. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Kuntzl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40217	Ladies and gentlemen! Only today has the EU education monitor kept us in mind, to the extent that in our country the educational opportunities, the success of education and the rise in education still depend on the social origin, on the wallet of parents. Against this background, I am particularly pleased that the educational budget we are discussing today allows us not only to give Sunday talks about the importance and importance of education, but in fact to put in place very important basic conditions in order to put the right measures in place and to avoid this situation slowly, but again in some important steps. In connection with the expansion of all day schools, the Federal Chancellor speaks of a heart project, namely because, as we know for many years, all day schools are a very important lever to support the children on this path. The funds – the Federal Minister has done it – already provided for in this budget and to which the € 750 million from the bank levy will be added to the expansion of all day schools will provide a decisive boost to improve the situation of our children. Tag School without school bag: It is an important step towards improving the opportunities of our children to set up a school that is supposed to be a school without a follow-up, where the children in the school are promoted accordingly. Unfortunately, if you still have the old picture in mind here – fortunately but less and less – that the children then have to spend the whole day in school, you know for yourself that there will be a nice change between learning and leisure time. These are ambitious objectives which the Federal Minister has set himself, which we will support with the decision-making of this educational budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40254	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hauser. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40276	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Last night, Klubobmann In the course of the general debate, barbarians noted that education and the education budget should be the central centrepiece of this budget and of this government. In principle, this statement is correct, but this claim is unfortunately not fulfilled by the budget. It has already been mentioned today: It is really incomprehensible that this area, the field of education, has already again shown a structural deficit and indeed lacks € 191 million in the budget. The budget of this area is not financed. That is, if we vote different budget chapters tomorrow evening, we really cannot agree to this budget, because the minimum expected is that each area is financed and, in particular, the education sector, because it actually represents the future of our children. That must be the force, and that will not be fulfilled in the case of Weitem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That means: We have not even done the duty in this area, let alone the choice, even though you, ladies and gentlemen, are making a great effort. You only took over the department, I know, and I also know – also because of the educational trip to South Tyrol – that you are very committed to the education effort. I don't want to agree with you at all, but I don't think that's useful to anyone. If we look at the debate now, we can see that it is not yet clear where these € 191 million, which are missing, will come from. You know, the Minister of Finance says, on the one hand, there will have to be savings, and he has already mentioned the team teaching to the public, and he has noted that from his point of view this is not so useful. So he wants to save on team coaching, while you, Mrs. Minister, have been holding it again and again – also in the committee recently – that you have to give the team coaching another chance. So there is also a big gap in the opinion between Mr Finanzminister and you in access to team teaching. I am already excited about how to close this gap. To the team teaching at all: That was the great idea in the introduction of the New Middle School. This means that in addition, two hours must be taught in the main subjects of English, Mathematics and German by Gymnasial teachers in the New Secondary Schools. This concept has never been implemented. Now, because teachers are missing in order to implement this thoughtful concept, it has been noted that these more hours on the ground can be invested, for example, in other priorities. However, the original concept, which was actually considered a great throw, was not implemented. There is absolutely the right criticism of the Federal Court of Auditors. You know, the New Secondary School was introduced without evaluating the results of the school tests. The Federal Court of Auditors has criticized this, and if you look at it now, you can conclude that he has probably done so, since this main concept for the New Middle School, namely to have additional hours taught in German, English, mathematics taught by high school teachers, is not implemented. So I see once again the big open question of where these €191 million will come from in the federal financial framework. For financial compensation: He's a chapter of his own. The financial compensation will continue to be disadvantaged in the rural area. What I miss is the implementation of the claims of the Federal Court of Auditors that expenditure and task orientation must be merged. That is, where the task is concerned, the money has to flow. Despite the efforts of the Minister of Finance, this has not been achieved in this financial compensation. You know, I've mentioned this several times: The municipalities are responsible for the compulsory schools. This means that the municipalities or community associations finance the infrastructure and are responsible for the school administration. Many communities can't do that. 45 percent of the municipalities in Austria are unable to create balanced budgets. I ask you: How does that work? If, from 2019 onwards, funds are made available for the expansion of all day schools, it is quite right and reasonable, always provided that the freedom of choice remains. But what do you do with the many school holders on the spot, who already do not know how to get the infrastructure? I asked you in committee how high the structural pot for local communities is. You found that you think it would be €25 million. I asked myself: There are €60 million for the next years, and these €60 million will be spent over the community association. I say to you: This will not be enough for the communities of Austria at Weitem, even there I place a massive underfinancing in the budget. Many things are still to be held. You were not included in the financial compensation, even though your predecessor, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, said: That's so important, I'm going to be there! – They were not in favour of what I regret because this is a very important instrument because there are 30 billion euros distributed to countries and communities. You have to be there! When it comes to money, you can't stand outside! [[Congratulation with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] [[Abg. That's how it is!]] I overlaid something. One last comment: We wanted to ask the cost of education. We know that €8.6 billion is spent by the federal government. This is too little, the area is underfinanced, but of interest would be the following: What is the cost of education in Austria? What about the federal expenditure? What do the countries pay? What do the congregations pay? What do the community associations pay? And, above all, what is the cost of supplementary assistance that parents need to finance? This is a huge pile of money, and if you look at the output of our education, you really have to find out: Although there is an incredible amount of money going into education, the result is unfortunately not the same as we wish. Mrs. Minister, you have many construction sites. We will help you eliminate these construction sites, but you also need to respond to our demands a little. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40326	Mr Dr. Däderle came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40348	Mr President. Mrs. Ministra! High house! We can see from many contributions to the debate that the budget is, in fact, the policy that has been put into figures. That is why many speeches are generally political and less on the budget. I too, in general, start politically and at the beginning allow me to have a digression, because a remark by Dr. Walser really irritated me, namely the comment from the last speech you said: True family-friendly policy would be if, like in Hamburg, the children could be given one year in a storage facility. [[Abg. Walser: I didn't say that! I said the possibility exists!]] – You said that! That shocked me very much. That's why I took along this book by Gerhard Roth. [[an edition of the work “How the Brain Makes the Soul” by Gerhard Roth and Nicole Strüber]] [[Abg. Walser: I've seen that! You as a scientist should quote exactly!]] Read it and note that the early childhood relationship between child and mother – and I'm probably saying this against the interests of all those women who want to or need to give up children as early as possible – is extremely significant for the later mental and intellectual development of a child. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] These are results of the latest brain research, and real child-friendliness and family-friendliness mean making this situation possible. It will not always be possible, it will sometimes be difficult, but it must be the highest goal of family and child policy, of child-friendly policy. The same applies to all day school. The whole day school must be an option, but it must remain voluntary, because all day training is not necessarily the ideal preparation for life. Life is more than school. Children also need to have open spaces, and parents must have the spaces to be able to train their children outside school. That's why this has to remain optional, which is a very important wish. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If I'm already replicating, one last point: Matthias Strolz, you are constantly annoying me with your unscrupulous assumption that “princes of the country” – already this term is extremely disturbing – represent only party-political interests and pursue power politics. [[Call:That's the way it is.]] I only need to look at the debt mountain of the federal government and the non-existent debt mountain of the state of Tyrol, then I know that sometimes national policy succeeds much better than federal policy. This also applies to school and education policy. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] In school policy, it is essential to give countries the opportunity to design. It's a huge difference whether you're making school policy in a big city like Vienna or in the country, and you have to be able to live and realize this difference. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's it!]] That is why it is good that the countries also have design possibilities here. I would just like to say that I am sorry for the devaluation of national policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I have already overlaid and come to my real issue, education policy, which is only quite on the verge. I'd have a request to Mrs. Ministra. It is correct and striking that it repeatedly highlights how important it is that we have now set up the new teacher education and begin to implement it. That's where I'd have an appeal: If, as you say, one wants to bring the educational universities at the level of the universities, then one should not do that in the field of vocational education; for it would really be a grand parallel structure if one wanted to construct specialist institutes at the educational universities in the field next to the universities. Technical training must remain at the heart of research, i.e. at universities. I just want to make this appeal. If develop, please not in the field of professional training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40448	Mr Dr. Walser spoke in favour of an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40474	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Col. Karlheinz Dägenle has just claimed that in my previous speech, I would have said that child care only works optimally when, as shown in the example of Hamburg, children need to be given to a detention centre in the first year of life. – That’s wrong! It is true that I – and this can be seen from the example of Hamburg – have said: We have optimal conditions when parents can give their child, as is possible in Hamburg, into a highly qualified childcare facility from the first year onwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40520	Mrs Maurer is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40541	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm still amazed because now these calls are back in the room. The difference between being able and having to be is simply the question of offering. When we talk about parents having options, then they have to be able to actually choose, say: There must be the possibility that they actually decide. If in a village, in a valley, there is no way to give the children to a restricted all day school, then we no longer need to speak of freedom of choice, then there is simply no choice. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] I'll replicate you, too, my colleague, When it comes to the question of what really is great for children and where they are free, the restricted all day school does not mean that they sit in the school class from 8 a.m. in the morning until 3 p.m., but exactly that leisure activities are integrated and so on. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] I can remember that in my time I had in the HBLA school colleagues who were in the hort, and I can remember how jealous I was on them, because they had a leisure program that my parents could not offer me: going swimming, all kinds of sporting events and so on. That was much more diverse than what I had. But let's go back to the topic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] I would like to address a point that has already been mentioned, namely the issue of opportunity index. The opportunity index is not the term we want to vote on, but it is not what we call it, but what we actually do with it. We know that our school system unfortunately does not compensate enough for the social inequalities that exist in this society. We know that the difference between children when they enter the first class is up to three years of learning. Three years, that's extreme. They come to elementary school at the age of six and there are already so uneven conditions! The goal must be that our school offers all children the opportunity to come to a school and bring them to school; unfortunately, in Austria, this depends heavily on which education parents have and whether they can help their children in their home exercises. This does not necessarily have to do with your own education or social conditions. I know that here in the House too some of the Members are amazed and overshadowed by the exercises that their children bring home, and all of this has to look at itself once again if they want to help them. [[Abg. Steinbichler: How many exercises have you done?]] Fortunately, we can afford to pay back, but many parents cannot afford to do so. But what are they doing? We have the situation that children from parents who have only one compulsory school have up to 27 months of learning – that is three years of schooling difference! – behind academic children. So what do we need? – We need a social index-based distribution of resources – the opportunity index, as we now call it and how the AK has presented it – which in schools creates the framework conditions that children need to get the right support, for example, more school psychologists or more teachers. That's where more money has to flow. We have this in a small area – Mrs Minister, you have said it – where it has been tested. But these applications have been available for years. We've known for years that this is necessary. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this would be a very important contribution to better education and education opportunities for all children in Austria. I would ask for the appropriate approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40617	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40678	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40699	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It has already been said a lot about budget. The fact is and fact remains that in 2017, the Ministry of Education will receive €555.4 million more than this year. In addition, €80 million is spent on language promotion, language start-ups, follow-up to compulsory schooling, basic education, but also on mobile teams available to schools for integration tasks. I would now like to take a brief look at the repetition of compulsory schooling, a personal matter of my heart. This is where policy is tasked with providing low-skilled people with the opportunity to re-enter their work and social life. Rehabilitation of compulsory schooling is a clear commitment to the fight against unemployment. Nearly one million Austrians do not have sufficient skills in the cultural techniques of reading, writing and computing, as well as in dealing with information and communication technologies. They have difficulties integrating themselves into social life and major problems in the long term in the labour market. This abuse is a huge step towards equal opportunities. This will create the central basis for vocational training and career advancement. We can only successfully shape our future and develop successfully if all people have the same opportunities to move forward, and we also need life-long education opportunities. To enable lifelong learning means equal opportunities at all stages of life. The resurgence of compulsory schooling has been forced in recent years, and I am very glad that Minister Hammerschmid has also given great attention to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40742	Mrs Gamon. You only have one minute's speaking time. This is going to be a challenge now, as it were. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40763	Mr President. Why do we spend so much money? It always means we spend a lot and get a little bit out. Why is that so? – The OECD says that the Austrian federal system was influenced by large volumes of fiscal transfers between different levels of the public sector. We are moving extremely high amounts of money between the countries and the federal government. This is particularly evident in the educational budget on the basis of the national teacher by spending money, which is always too low budgeted, and not knowing what the national teachers are doing, how many hours they are teaching. We have still not solved this problem, that is not a budgetary reality. I know, Mrs. Minister, you never actually had a chance to solve this. I hope we don't have it that way in the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40799	Well done, ladies and gentlemen, it was only 40 seconds. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40824	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am actually glad that we have now become a bit more objective in the final phase of the budget discussion on education. If one considers the whole to be an outsider and sees how the Austrian education system is misrepresented in a budget debate, one must already note the following: When parents look at it, they really have to think that our education system is bad. It's not bad, I think. EU monitoring has also shown that we have a very good education system. But of course it is that society is changing and changing, and the education system also needs to be adapted. In this area, however, we have achieved a number of things in recent years. I would just like to refer to the school law package with which we have improved the school entrance phase. I think that is something very important, namely the promotion of early childhood language. I also believe that with the school autonomy package, we are really strengthening the independence, the self-determination of the individual school locations. I also believe that with the Education Investment Act, which was adopted in the Council of Ministers, we can also improve afternoon care. We can do something to improve this, because the budget has really been raised. However, I would like to take another approach here, because it is important to me, since I am from the rural area, that we always plan the parents, the children, the teachers and also the teachers in the developments. Unfortunately, however, it is that – perhaps ideologically justified – a hood is overshadowed, namely with the constriction. I think that is exactly the wrong approach. We in the country, of course, need afternoon care, but not so that this must be done in every school. Mrs Minister's approach is correct, but I believe that freedom of choice must be given. This is also very important to me personally, because I come from the needs surveys, from surveys by parents and teachers know that not every school needs a limited form and that even afternoon care must not be at every school, but that must be offered. I believe that a modern education system must reflect this freedom of choice. In this sense, Mrs Minister, I should like to congratulate you on the budget. I think we're on a good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40869	I call Mr Wurm. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40890	Mr President. Minister! Mrs Hammerschmid, you have taken over from your predecessor Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, who is not here right now. You have also received advance locust berries from us, because the call has come to you that you act and operate very pragmatic, subject-oriented and above all target-oriented. Over the last few months, however, some disillusionment has spread with us and with me, because you have come a little into the driving water of ideology, as you have always noticed in the meetings of the teaching committee. I would ask you to make a more realistic school policy. Let's take a look at the facts: Just under €8.7 billion is the educational budget, it's about 125 000 teachers. The figures are not low, neither the financial sum nor the number of teachers. However, the problem or the question we should also discuss is: What's the output, what's going on? – We have established for years the problem that almost a quarter of the graduates of the compulsory school are basically unable to read, calculate and write meaningfully. I believe that looking for a solution at the school of the whole day is a measure. I think any investment in education makes sense, but I do not think that this € 750 million spread over ten years really helps us in this problem area of the lower layer. What you should say to the truth, too: These all day schools will not be free for parents. Rather, my guess is that all day schools will cost 150 €, 200 € or 250 € per month and that we will not be able to accommodate these 25 percent, namely the problem students, in the field of all day schools, because the parents do not have the money to finance it. The problem is not dealt with at the root, but actually overshadowed and believed an ideological image so that all problems can be solved. I have to give the colleagues of the ÖVP the right, and I also have to say: In fact, not all educational institutions in Austria are bad! Especially in the field of vocational education – HAK, HTL and so on – Austria is certainly the world leader. We also have very good gymnasia in Austria. The main problem lies in primary school and in the New Middle School area. We just don't see a solution from the FPÖ, Mrs. Minister. In my opinion, there is really a lot to do. Now to another topic that also fits in with that because, as I mean, you have to look at it as well: In Tyrol last week was a great insurrection, and about There was a report in the "Tyroler Zeitung", in which it was said that an Islam teacher refused the handshake on her arrival visit to the responsible director, the director Wagner, an ÖVP mayor by the way. I don't know if You all know this story. This act has been with the school administration for some time, but nothing is done in this regard. Because of this event there was a great excitement in Tyrol, because it was said: How can there be such a thing in a public school financed by the State or by the taxpayer that, despite a disciplinary call, someone refuses to hand over to the superior? Mrs Hammerschmid, I would already be interested in your personal opinion, and I would have liked to hear your opinion. I would also like to know – you can also submit this in writing, if you do not know it now – how much tax money Austria or you spend in your budget in religious education, especially in the Islam area, and who is in the case described as being in the final line of discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40949	I call Mr Preiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e40970	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. 2017 is the year of education in Austria. Next year, €8.6 billion will be available for education in the country, by €560 million or 6.9 percent more than in the current year 2016. These € 560 million are mainly used for the expansion of all-day schooling, but also for deepening integration needs in Austria. By the school year 2018/2019, 200 000 places are to be available in school full-day care. This is particularly important in order to reconcile family and profession. Team teaching in the New Secondary School will also provide 4,000 additional jobs in the pedagogical field at full development. Ladies and gentlemen. In addition, 80 million € are available for integration of refugee children in 2017. In my opinion, this is a necessity in order to ensure social peace in Austria in the future. Finally, I would like to say: I am particularly interested in the fact that €25 million is available for the re-examination of compulsory school and €12.4 million for the project Teaching with Matura. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I thank the educators and educators for their very important and important work in the classes and schools. Thank you also Mrs Hammerschmid for her skill to ensure a correspondingly high educational budget for 2017. Education, education and training are important for the pupils, but also for the future of our country Austria. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41003	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Jarmer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41027	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of education: You yourself said that Mrs Minister, language promotion is very important to you that it is a matter of your heart. I would like to talk to our school system right now: We have special schools and so-called integration and inclusion schools, depending on how they are called. Perhaps you know that it is true in Austria – I would like to update your knowledge once again – that the Austrian sign language was first recorded in the Austrian Constitution in 2005. Secondly, the Austrian sign language is a UNESCO World Heritage Site; thirdly, a resolution has been adopted in the European Parliament today, which has recognised sign languages throughout Europe. This has been supported by many colleagues in the EU Parliament. The current level is the same as before: There is no quality assurance for deaf teachers at federal schools and also for teachers who teach deaf children. The thing is very easy to explain: If you send a child to English school, the teacher must be able to learn English. This is not the case with the ÖGS, the Austrian sign language, since there is no quality assurance. Now I would like to say something about a current subject. First: There are some teachers who say: I teach a deaf child, I can't do a sign language, but I pay myself a course and learn the sign language so I can teach this child! Unfortunately, there is no budget for this. These teachers have to pay for it privately. Secondly, The working time of these teachers is not recognised. That's where I ask you, Mrs. Minister: Is this the language promotion that you so highly praise? Is that the language promotion you're always talking about? And also the ÖVP brakes, brakes, brakes. You know very well that this is important, we've had so many conversations with each other, but you always say you need studies. How many years have you needed studies to be able to say that these children need to be taught in their mother tongue? - You're slowing down! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point, very up-to-date: Next week, we'll have a conversation at your place. We have already reported to you in June and have said that we urgently need an appointment, namely: For deaf teachers working in the Federation, you have the responsibility, that is, you have the obligation to monitor it. And there's the question: What about these teachers? – They are not treated the same way, they cannot participate in teacher conferences, meetings, supervisors, team talks, because there are no interpreters available, but it says: We can't, teachers, we don't have money for this, we don't have a budget for it! These teachers want to continue their education, but they do not get the money provided for it. Where's the solution? Next week we have an appointment in the ministry. So far, there have been no solutions. Where's the diplomacy? That's a Shame what is done there! Where's your responsibility, Mrs. Minister? Where do you see her? We're really mad, the whole community is mad. If this is the procedure of the Ministry of Education, then we have a grant on you and on your place of business, because you also have the responsibility for these people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the UN Convention, which we have ratified here: You yourself said there are model regions, for example in the Styria. Well, my colleague Harald Walser has already said that there are some in the Styria, but there is a big problem, namely: There is a child in Styria who needs special education and has no disability, but even this child does not get a place in school. We need to run into someone who can help these parents all the time in this thing. Mrs. Minister, where are you doing your job? And: What task does it perform You there? Why Care Don't you care about this mother and this child so that this kid can have a schoolground? Why Fulfill You don't have your job here? They have the responsibility to ensure that these children, too, receive education so that they do not land in unemployment. That's very important. It is not enough just to discuss and say: We want inclusion, we want model regions – maybe, maybe, maybe! Mrs. Minister, it's enough! Again: It's enough! Take responsibility for these children! This also applies to all parliamentarians here in this House, because: It's enough! We can no longer see that these children are not being educated. As I said, It's enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41112	Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41133	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Education is the capital of the future – we hear this almost daily from experts in the field of business and labour. In the age of globalisation, education and training, skills, are those criteria that make Austria stand in international competition. We all know how difficult it is to pass on reforms in the field of education in Austria. And that is why our Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is very grateful and grateful for her initial reforms. On the one hand, there is a budget that will enable the essential tasks in education to be fulfilled, namely € 8.6 billion. On the other hand, we have succeeded in bringing movement into our rigid system. I am aware that there is still a lot of work to be carried out, especially as there are many skeptics and objectors in this regard. But we are on a good path, as the following examples show: The New Secondary School is being further expanded, as there is individual support through team coaching, which many cannot imagine yet, because they may not have experienced it themselves, but they should look at something like that. I've practiced it for many years. I could now continue to do so, but since my time is very short, I would just like to quote one more institution, namely the Industrial Union, which is certainly not close to our group. This says: "We see the All-day school as the core of education reform and, above all, in its limited form, as an essential success factor in a modern school". I couldn't have formulated it better. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41176	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41197	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the Federal Estimate 2017, budget breakdown 30: Education, some remarks: In 2017, the Federal Ministry of Education receives € 8.6 billion, which is € 550 million more than 2016. Most of these additional expenditures, i.e. € 551.2 million, represent staff costs for the national teachers. € 85.7 million will benefit the general education and training of middle and higher schools. - So far, so good. Within the framework of an overrun, the schools will receive €80 million next year. Today, €63.8 million has been made available in this context – mostly for the integration of school-based refugee children. My question is: Can we afford this in the future? On this occasion I say a thank you to the entire teaching staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41227	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41249	I would like to thank you, Mrs Minister, for we can start this year with a balanced educational budget in the new year, and the structural gap in the education budget with regard to the next year could also be reduced. Despite all this, I would like to point out here that sustainable financing is finally to be put out of the question. In this respect, I give many of my previous speakers the right to say: It cannot be in the sense of the Minister of Finance that the long term will be saved on the shoulders or on the back of the children, the students in Austria. What I particularly like about the reforms you have referred to, this is the development to a modern educational institution within the framework of the autonomous package. The autonomy package gives schools on-site the opportunity to make their choice of staff, education and funding completely free. These possibilities must also be taken into account accordingly. It opens up something, opens up a framework that must also be used. Another offer is the expansion of all day school. At the same time, € 750 million will be added to the additional Federal Government agreement to invest in the restricted area, i.e. in the change of Teaching units with leisure units and exercise units. In my opinion, this means summa summarum, that this sum doubles the number of places and that a deciduous step is taken to create an education system that eliminates the influence factor of social origin. It shows that one is no longer blind in this respect, but that one goes specifically into the educational past of the individual children. Much has already been said about the issues of language promotion, integration measures, the opportunity index, as significant changes are necessary in the future. It is up to us here in Parliament to introduce these options and then to use the appropriate opportunities and to implement the projects at the Austrian educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41291	Mr Mayer has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41312	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thanks to my previous speakers, who spoke so fluently that I can also give some thought to it. I would like to refer to the heart of this budget, as the chancellor has referred to it and as Mrs Hammerschmid has worked out, how it will affect in the coming years. The central point is and remains – and you can turn it and turn it as you want – the school all day – not mandatory for everyone, there must be no fear of it, because we don't have the money for it at all! But there is already the question to ask: Why exactly the most expensive dormitory do you have a fully day-to-day limited form of teaching? – It is about giving everyone the same opportunity and that they all have the opportunity to benefit from free space as well. [[Call at the FPÖ: There are the children of the Social Democrats in particular!]] It hurts me, my colleague, if you – and you know, I very much appreciate you, but it is under your intellectual level, if you say something like that – to talk about a completely restricted form, because in the whole school, exactly those children who have no spaces but who need them, exactly what we want to achieve by getting social contacts and social relationships there. That is why we should finally end with this prejudice, or with these placardial sayings, that this is a compulsion. Let us pull together at a strand so that we can actually succeed that no child has to stay on the track! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41344	There are no more words available to me on the sub-division of education. This is why this subject area has been completed. I am now interrupting the session until Thursday, 24. November 2016, 9 a.m. Negotiations will take place with the deliberations of subheading 31: Science and research continued. The sitting was suspended. [[The meeting was held on Wednesday, 23. On Thursday, 24 November 2016, at 8.16 p.m. In November 2016, at 9.06 a.m.]] [[20:16:03]] [[09:05:42]] Continued the meeting: Thursday, 24. November 2016, 9.06 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41399	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I'll take the interrupted 154. National Council meeting again. For today's session, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Angela Lueger, Mag. Gisela Wurm, Dr. Nachbaur and Barbara Rosenkranz. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41439	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter. We continue with the budget consultation. I announce that today's meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 a.m. to 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred live and full-length today, sending the part of the meeting beyond 7.45 p.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41478	For today’s session day, a day-block speaking time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been decided, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as NEOS and STRONACH per 44 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club on today's day of each 22 minutes; in addition, their speaking time was limited to 5 minutes per debate. The breakdown for today's debate is known to you all. [[09:07:35]] UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41507	We start with the consultation of Division 31: Science and research. Mr Karlsböck was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41532	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, it is a good thing high social permeability in the tertiary sector. It can largely be anyone who can study what he wants. However, without regard to the public, the following developments take place: More and more real private universities are establishing themselves. As positive as this may be in terms of excellence and a high-class range of studies, it has an impact on the quality of public universities, because, as in other areas of society, a two-class society is created: Those who can direct it go to expensive private universities and turn their backs on the state universities. Those, in turn, have to cope with the large mass of students with much less resources. This leads to spatial bottlenecks, to a worse care relationship and to scarcely reasonable study conditions. The result: The quality of the offer is falling. Another problem is the many foreign students at our universities, who now come from third countries or from abroad. They need to be asked more strongly for cash, because it is simply for Austrian taxpayers and simply not reasonable that they finance, for example, the training of medical students, of whom they have nothing, because they later return as doctors to their home countries. This criticism does not originate from an evil populism, but results from a very pragmatic point of view. The German SPD has also recognised this problem for the Federal Republic of Germany and is keenly following it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Students from other EU countries occupying Austrian study places cost about €600 million annually. This overhang should, as we have long called for, be covered by EU compensatory payments, and it would not be inappropriate to declare this amount as the European Union's solidarity contribution. I am pleased that the Federal Minister is obviously no longer quite averse to this proposal, as the discussions in the Scientific Committee have also shown. If we do not want a quota to be reached only with restrictions on access and questionable Knock-out tests, where the day-to-day constitution often decides on the entire career, we have to go the opposite way and create more places to study, but then finance them. There are both universities and, of course, the Federal Government on the train. In order to identify the financial need for real funding for study places, we need now at last concrete figures, broken down by direction of study, locations, teaching and research costs. Currently we only get vague averages. While it is gratifying that the Federal Government is now providing additional university space structural funds in addition to basic funding, that is a real signal, it does not replace the actual figures. It must finally end with screwing around small wheels. It is now true to do nails with heads. Regardless of the moderate increase in the scientific budget, the key objective must be the achievement of the major self-esteemed objective, namely a higher spending rate of 2% of GDP, which you set yourself in the Federal Government. At €4.3 billion and a GDP of €300 billion we are currently reaching a quota of 1.7 percent. The introduction of the country of origin would also relieve the local universities with a massive blow, only by the disappearance of the Numerus-claus refugees from Germany, who block most of the Austrian medical studies. The excuse that this is not feasible because it is not EU-compliant is not convincing. The universities were always a hort of new ideas and sometimes groundbreaking impulses. Austria did well to rethink its proven university tradition, which has at least produced excellent scientists and numerous Nobel Prize winners. However, for this to happen, it will be necessary to have a clear assessment of the basic research treated in a step-by-mother way. This is what Hannes Androsch, President of the Council for Research and Technology Development, and many other competent personalities have ignored. Mostly, it's only lip confessions that don't follow any actions. It seems that the Federal Government is constantly shifting the appreciation of basic research backwards. We have long called for a research funding law. This would mean having sustainable financial security and achieving medium to long-term planning. Minister Mitterlehner, in order to achieve real equal opportunities, does not require a levelling, especially down, but a wide range of offers at our universities. This costs money, but investment in the science site Austria is always worthwhile, but it is about the future of our youth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41601	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41622	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! We have a very encouraging chapter to discuss today. Both universities and research are very well funded in Austria as a whole, in particular as regards what is going on in the public sector. The latest statistical data – this is the latest OECD Education at a Glance report, which, however, reflects the 2013 figures – show that we now stand at 1.7 percent in the tertiary ratio. In other words, we still have a few years of flexibility and the possibility of achieving the target of 2% by 2020 if we continue to work as we have before, if we continue to finance universities with budgets that are significantly higher than the usual rates of increase. We have the latest figures from Eurostat – and this is a whole new number of days ago – in terms of research. There we are now what the research rate is going to be, in Europe number two – number two! - behind Sweden. We have overtaken Finland, so we are ahead of Denmark and Finland at 3.07 percent. This too is a very, very encouraging development, which can make us very proud, but should not cause us to fail in our efforts. As always, this is about more money, but it is also about appropriate framework conditions, and it is about using this money in a targeted and efficient way. As far as the framework is concerned, the University Conference has recently taken a unanimous decision. That was so far not possible. The unanimous decision recently taken by the unico in St. Gilgen is that it is in favour of comprehensive admission procedures to the university. This is a useful consequence of the fact that the universities, which is to be welcomed, are very open to interested people from all over the world – this is a tribute to globalisation, an effect of this globalisation and also an effect of the very attractive study location Austria – but also open to interested people who do not come through the normal way of Matura, but via other qualifications. Because this is so because the university is increasingly opening up there, on the other hand, one must also give the possibility of such reception schemes, because only this is the case. Clean planning is possible, only in such a way that the offer, both of infrastructure and of teaching staff, can be adapted to the students in some way. If you don't, then certain unfavorable conditions develop, all of which suffer – the students especially because they are not well cared for, but also the teachers, because they simply can't meet their care obligations anymore. So that is urgently needed. One instrument to implement these comprehensive reception schemes is, of course, the place of study to which everyone has to confess and whose implementation needs to be addressed. However, there are further encouraging developments, even in the budget, for example, the technical universities are being further expanded or the rates for the places of study are increased, which was urgently necessary. The funds of the Austrian Academy of Sciences will be significantly increased. Above all, it is – and this is now an outlook – finally taking into account the urgent desire and the urgent need to increase the FWF, i.e. the fund for the promotion of scientific research in Austria. As part of the announced research billions, it will receive a significant increase of over 30 percent, so that its volume will increase within a shorter period of time from the currently not quite 200 million € to almost 300 million € per year. These are all very good developments. It is always important that, in all efforts to achieve a financial improvement that has been successful, one keeps in mind and improves the framework conditions. Then research in Austria, in particular the universities and in total, is going to be very good.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41668	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41689	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now negotiating the budget for science and research, breakdown 31. The main objective set by the Ministry of Science is to increase the number of diplomas. But I would like to roll up the budget debate from the following page: What do students need to be able to do? For the beginning it would be very good if students had a study place, ideally a seat. At the moment, it is still the case that students in some fields of study have to sit on the ground, unfortunately, because the audiences are overcrowded, as the care conditions are too bad. Unfortunately, it is partly so that instead of high-quality training they have multiple-choice tests for which they need to learn externally. Unfortunately, it is still such that they have to wait for a seminar place for some time – several semesters. – All of this is the effect of the chronic sub-financing of universities. We know the problem; it's not new. If it says right now that we have too many students, I would like to point out one thing here: First of all, we have fewer students in international comparison than in the OECD section; second, the number of students at universities is falling. It is not as always done here that the large masses continue to run to the universities; no, it is true that the number of students is falling and that in the future we will have fewer beginners. [[Abg. Neubauer: What is this about?]] What more do students need to be able to study well and come to a conclusion? – They need committed teachers, they need teachers involved in research. We know from a parliamentary request that up to a third of the teaching is held at the universities of external readers whose contracts are extended from semester to semester, which, as well as students, also have to work under unbearable conditions. This budget does not provide for a measure that will change something about this situation. What else do students need? – To be able to study – and also to study quickly, because we want them not to need forever to get a degree – in order to be able to finance their studies, two thirds of all students on average have to work 20 hours a week. Logically, there are then delays in studying – by the way, universities as well as colleges. And why is that so? – Because our scholarship system is now completely inadequate and no longer able to do what it is supposed to do, namely to compensate for social inequalities, i.e. to allow those students who do not have rich parents to study. In fact, however, only more than 12 percent of students receive conventional study aid. So that no one now believes that they would have a long run: These are usually around 100 €, which they receive in addition, and most of them of course have to work right next to it. This situation is, of course, unsatisfactory. Mr Minister, in June you promised to provide at least €25 million for the increase of funding. This €25 million is not included in this budget. This situation will not change either. In this context, I cannot quite understand the jubilation of my colleague Karlheinz Dägenle, in which it is presented as if the university budget and the science budget were great. - I don't share this assessment. We are far away from the 2 percent we have agreed on several times. It takes much greater effort to achieve this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The objectives of the ministry, which have been listed here, which one wants to achieve, are very important. We are in the scientific and research budget, and there are several objectives: For example, we have targets for equality, we have targets that have been set. But what's very important to you is: There is no target for basic research. There is an objective for international participation, but there is no objective for Austrian basic research. We know the FWF is chronically underfinanced. The funding of the universities was used to compensate for failures at the FWF – the overheads say, the doctoral colleges – but the FWF still has a particularly low approval rate. Karlheinz, the euphoria about the many millions that were promised by 2021, which the FWF is to receive, I cannot share quite in view of the example raised: 25 million € for study funding, but not in the budget. We can only negotiate what is already in here, and at the moment the situation is so... [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: We have a government template!]] Mr Minister, as long as the Federal Financial Framework does not exist, it is not included in the budget, and we have seen how it was with other promises from you. [[Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner: 2017-budget, Mrs. Colleague, not...!]] – Yes, exactly, and we are negotiating here also the 2017 budget, I am speaking accordingly about the 2017 budget, in which no target for the FWF is included, no target for basic research is included, and we are not living by pigeons on the roof. All in all, I cannot share the jubilation allocated to this budget. As has already been said, much greater efforts are needed, stressing not only our Greens, but all scientists in the sector. Well, we're now in the current performance agreement period, and it's logical that we're waiting for the upcoming planning for the next years, but that's definitely not enough. Of course, it is very sad that the promises you made, Minister, will not be respected. We will continue to look at this and continue to fight for universities to be financed at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41763	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41785	Ladies and gentlemen! Then to my predecessor: Of course there is no mention of jubilation, but if you look objectively at this budget chapter, positive developments can already be seen. There are moderate increases in the field of universities with a focus on infrastructure. From our point of view – I think, from Mr Vice-Chancellor’s point of view too – it would be desirable, of course, to have more budget resources in hand here. From our point of view, it would be urgent to make increases to improve care conditions at universities. We want to go the way to improve the conditions according to the motto: We have bad conditions, but not too many students; that is, better care conditions, but not under the condition of reducing the number of students, because we need well-trained forces in this country, of course, quite urgently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Daughters.]] I do not want to talk about individual opportunities; of course, this is also extremely important. In this context, it is also necessary to highlight very positively the increases in the budget for the technical colleges. The budget already provides for an increase of €13 million; in addition, additional €100 million will be provided for the technical universities from the funds of the bank levy. Technical colleges are a very important area in the tertiary sector, not least because of the fact that universities provide vocational training courses to a much higher extent than universities which have become a very important training track. From our point of view, a wormhead drop – which I would like to stress – is the means available for the funding of studies. We did not discuss the report on the social situation of students in the Committee until the summer, and we actually agreed that it was urgently necessary to increase the funding for study funding. The Federal Minister and Vice-President also stressed that he would feel that this would be urgently necessary and, as has already been said, put in perspective funds of € 25 million, which unfortunately cannot be found in the budget – which we very much regret, Mr Vice-Chancellor. They still have design options within the budget, perhaps they can also be reworked. A special drops of advertising is the question of promoting student homes that have not been increased; this would be necessary if one looked at the cost of living and how difficult it is for students, especially for students who come from a parent house where the wallet is not particularly thick. Funding for student homes has not only been increased but also reduced. That is why the urgent appeal to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: Look Once again! You have indicated in the Committee that you would actually have a better budget. Perhaps there is still a retranslation possibility – that would be the urgent appeal from us in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41839	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41860	Madam President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The Austrian science budget suffers from the great Austrian tragedy: bankomat federalism. Although it is in principle gratifying that we have seen an increase there, we do not in any way achieve this: This is not enough in any way to get to where we actually want to go in science policy and in research policy. In the final effect it is also an increase in our great universities that do great work and our great researchers; they do this despite the tight budget and not because of the tight budget. On the basis of two written answers received from the Ministry of Science, I would like to illustrate what the problems are. We know that the budget is figures of cast policy, so let's look at what these figures are. On the question of why in the detailed budget 31.02.01 transfers to countries have increased so significantly – from around €20 million to €62 million –: These are payments for clinic construction. If you now ask yourself what this has to do with science policy, this is a very legitimate question, because it has nothing to do with science policy; not because medical universities are not important and absolutely scientific – they also do great work, especially in the field of research – but the problems hide here in the field of very complicated mixed financing forms, of mixed administrations, of mixed responsibilities, such as at the AKH in Vienna. These are health tasks that have actually lost nothing in this budget at all – keyword of clinical extra burden, keyword of medical faculty in Linz, which no man needed, but wanted to build a head of state. [[In the direction of Abg. Maurer:]] Sigi, because I just saw you grinning Back in Upper Austria, by the way, it was a black and green government. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] In Tyrol too, it seems that a medical school is now in planning, where it really sets up all the experts' hair when they think about it, because it is absolutely not necessary. [[Abg. Beautiful:... in Upper Austria!]] Why do we do something like that? Why do the state governments do this? – Because it is regionally politically opportune to do it; because it is easier for the federal government to give in to negotiations, much easier than to take the pleasure of constantly opening things up to the heads of state. These loops, which can be cut by the solemn opening of things, are left to account for dozens or hundreds of millions of euros. This is totally unresponsible; and all this just to combat an imaginary, perfect, 100%-invented medical shortage – a bit like windmills. Next painful point: research funding. Mrs Maurer has already mentioned it: We have no goal to address basic research. We are talking about the EU return flows, we are well on our way, we also have to say that – Austria is above the cut and is relatively successful in bringing back EU funds, which is perhaps interesting for FPÖ – but this does not change the fact that we have been staring at the FWF for years, that it has been consistently subdivided for years, that we are falling back in the approval quotas, and this leads to our having a huge brain drain and losing the best minds abroad. They're leaving, and they're not coming back either. The increase in the research premium – which now has nothing to do with this budget, but with the research applied – is another example of how we can do it relatively quickly, if it is important to ask for the right lobbys, to create money that we do not actually have, that we are not prepared to give in basic research. Dear Mr Vice-Chancellor, I think it is very positive that you have announced that in the next few years you want to implement a study place funding. But this will require a lot more money; there are calculations that say that this costs up to 1 billion € per year. We know this is the money we're going to need in the science field, but I'm really excited where it's going to come from.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41912	The next item is Mrs Dr. Karl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41933	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mrs Kuntzl that this budget sets some important accents. Of course, it can be more and more, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must already see that this budget has been drawn up under very difficult conditions. [[Abg. New builder: That's how it is every year!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Against the background of these difficult framework conditions, I very much welcome the fact that there are numerous offensive measures in the 2017 budget and that there is therefore also a targeted investment in innovation and research. For universities, this means that their budget for the 2016 to 2018 service agreement period was increased by €630 million. But let me now come to the objectives of action: Objective 1 is aimed at increasing the number of qualifications at universities, colleges and private universities. To this end, study advice should be strengthened, among other things, in order to bring about a more conscious and thus more successful discussion of the subject of study. The choice of the right degree, i.e. that of study, which corresponds to the professional and personal inclinations, is of great importance not only to the students but also to the universities. The objective of action 2 is to create a nationally coordinated, internationally competitive university and research area. In order to implement this objective, it is appropriate to refer to the initiation of university cooperation with universities, non-university institutions and the economy at both national and EU level. In the cooperation between the universities, the Styrian universities are a special example. Instead of offering studies at a location twice, the University of Graz and TU Graz, together with their NAWI Graz project, began to offer scientific training in several fields very successfully years ago. A cooperation between three Styrian universities, namely the University of Graz, the TU Graz and the Medical University of Graz, can also be found within the framework of the BioTechMed-Graz. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the investments made with this budget will be worthwhile in science and research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41976	Mrs Weigerstorfer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e41997	Madam President. Minister! In principle, you have to say to the budget that each resort would naturally like to have more money for its activities. If you look at this budget, you have to say that in general it has succeeded. Of course, one has to make a few cuts, in some areas I do not find them perfectly solved, but in principle one has to say that the Federal Government has set itself the goal of creating adequate framework conditions for university teaching and, above all, developing transparent and capacity-oriented financing models. What I think is very, very bad – some previous speakers have already mentioned – is that the support relationship at public universities has not been sufficiently taken into account again, despite the increase in the budget for administration and teaching. Unfortunately, this increase does not reach students at all, and it is simply feared that the quality will suffer. We can all imagine sitting on the ground is certainly not very helpful if you want to concentrate and co-write. On the other hand, payments for tertiary education will only rise slightly in 2017, although the Federal Government's objective is to spend 2% of GDP on tertiary education by 2020. In this respect, however, I think that the goal is very, very difficult to achieve. What I particularly regret is that the budget for tertiary education is very disintegrated. For example, the educational universities in the UG 30 find themselves in the educational resort. This situation prevents the pooling of financial and, above all, intellectual resources. This is a shame because in order to provide the economic location of Austria with well-trained people in the long term, all policy measures must be put in place to make use of opportunities for improvement in cooperation. If you look closely, the fragmentation is also quite clear in the budget. A total of four subdivisions are concerned with research and science: Science and Research, Transport, Innovation and Technology, Economy and Research and Education. – So I think that so much is lost, a lot of organizational and structural things are also at the expense of the budget. I find this situation to be counterproductive, because it prevents a transparent and manageable representation. We simply need to bundle all relevant content and make it subject to a ministry. I know it's hard because a lot of issues are cross-sectional, but that would be the optimum. Unfortunately, this budget also makes it clear that this is being broken up very much, and I would like every euro really to benefit universities and students so that Austria as an economic location will have even more opportunities in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42043	Next, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Mitterlehner spoke. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42064	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as science and research is concerned, each year we discuss the same subject: Are the increases sufficient the resources we have available for these two issues in the budget area? – And, depending on the opposition role or the role of government, access is different. I believe that the only really serious access is to note that the financing of both areas is largely carried out from the budget, and from this I also, of course, see the total budget development as a whole. Given the years that are difficult in the overall context of the economic crisis and the fact that both areas are over-dimensional, I believe that we can agree that we have given science and research an above-average priority in recent years. And we can also represent the successes objectively. Mrs Maurer, you have referred to the development of the number of students. I would like to present this differentiated, because you are not quite wrong in one point, and Mr Karlsböck has also mentioned this: Over the last ten years, we have actually had a dramatic or very dynamic increase in the number of students at universities. Last year we had about 338,000 students. That was a total of around 100,000 students more than ten years ago. That is, the universities had a lot to do with. On the other hand, especially as far as this year is concerned, the division is that there is a stagnation in the universities of access in about and that the colleges have a very dynamic access, too. However, as far as private universities, whose share of the number of studies and students is concerned, one has to say that still disappearingly small, we have some increase rates of 37 percent. You can find that well, but from my point of view you have to ask more precisely why this is so, because the final effect is financed by private universities. It is actually not intentioned that the public hand through... [[Abg. Maurer: That's not true at all!]] - Please? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] However, it is not intentioned that the public hand builds up a second university system through the way of the countries or through chambers or others. I therefore believe that there is a need to present this fact and to explain it accordingly. Overall, the discussion was also marked by the fact that, of course, we need planning security in terms of positions and overall orientation at universities, so more annual budgets. This has now been resolved positively, for just three years, with the currently ongoing agreement for 2016, 2017 and 2018. So I have this security and also increase of about 7 percent, exactly 6.8 percent, and 600 million € of fresh money that flows to the universities. There are studies that show that in international comparison several countries – I think twelve countries within the EU – have no increases at all, but reductions. We are therefore also on a very good path in the field of teaching. And what we now have in the budget is, of course, the linear picture of what these three years are, for example, with regard to the increase in staff planned for next year. This figure of € 19.8 million is shown there. This is one point: good financing, planning security. One of the speakers has mentioned the state of the universities that at events it is alleged that you have to sit on the ground. I'll tell you: This may have happened somewhere else, but is the absolute exception. Especially the Austrian universities have a level of planning and realization, which is excellent. Visitor groups who come to Vienna look at not only historical buildings, but also the economic university. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] Look at Linz, look at Graz: loud new buildings, which now best complement the university interests! Yes, I trust to say that we have also made up of the BIG 200 million € for renovations, we are in total quite well equipped there. To this end, we must say: Of course I can always expand everything, sure! But, Mr Karlsböck, with the 1.7 percent we now have, and going beyond what we want to achieve by 2% in 2020, I am very optimistic about the momentum we are currently having, that we will really also reach the 2% for the tertiary sector; Karlheinz Dägenle addressed it. The university sector is therefore also oriented towards the future: We have the university structure resources, which are the first approach to preparing the study place funding. There is the project Zukunft Hochschule, which includes the second step in this context. And if it is necessary – and that is what we see – to take money into account, we will continue to develop the financial framework if we agree with the coalition partner accordingly. This is the one area: Universities, supplemented by the University of Applied Sciences. We have undertaken to create 50,000 places by 2018, this we will reach next year. None of you mentioned that. So we're actually very dynamic on a very right path. The economy needs exactly the graduates in this field. The third point I noticed in this context, which you are constantly introducing, concerns the clinical additional burden. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you know: In the next few years, we will be converting € 1 billion in the AKH, bringing the space into a state of what it should be like. That costs the state a lot. If you ask why this is so that we can finance the doctors and also the clinical extra burden there, I can tell you that this goes back to the emperor who then agreed or explained it accordingly. So Austria is built up, and I think that is certainly not bad here and there as far as the quality is concerned. I can complete the field of universities: I think we are on a very good path in international comparison. On science as a whole and on research: Ladies and gentlemen, please let this be demonstrated here constantly by the submission of FWF and also the Academy of Sciences! The opposite is the case: In recent years, we have achieved significant increases – in one area by 17 percent, in the other, I believe, 8 percentage points in total – and thus also on a secure basis in the budgetary field. This was the case before: Funding partly through the National Foundation and other areas, through reserves and others, was always an uncertain matter. However, they are right, basic research is still subdivided, we need to expand even further. That's why we've done these research billions. And, of course, the research billion cannot be pictured in the 2017 budget, but it can only be specified in the financial framework, in line with what we have now structurally and what we have in the coming years. In order not to give the impression, I tell you that and that is just a political announcement: The relevant decision has been taken in the Council of Ministers. We did not take this into account in the 25 million € student funding. There you have to say, too: I'd like to have that, maybe we can do it. At least we have achieved some improvements for older students and students who need to care for family members. The same applies to the home area: Yes, that's a problem we're looking at, but you're never saying we've invested € 145 million in home buildings in recent years. So the state was not inactive. As far as research is concerned, a number of very specific points are already planned for the coming months. Within the framework of these activities, for example, there will be a new Fellowship programme for spin-offs in the field of universities in conjunction with the economy. The aim is to force spin-offs and to highlight and build up accordingly where we have up to now deficits. We have also planned a number of very concrete steps for the next year, such as the investment in a quantum computer demonstrator or a planning workshop for open innovation. From my point of view, therefore, I should like to sum up: Our research and science orientation is forward-looking. We can keep up with all the states. The F&E quota of 3.07 percent has also been addressed by Karlheinz Dägenle, which we are now in the very front of the European area. If anyone there wants to find something negative: Yes, we need to increase efficiency there and there. I believe that this budget will help to do so. In this sense, I am also grateful for the support given to certain projects. I think we're on a very good path as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42119	The next item is the speech by Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42140	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! One thing before: I am full of you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, when you speak of improvements as regards older students or students who have care obligations. That's quite right. However, if you speak of students sitting on the ground or on heaters as absolute exceptions, then I simply can't give you the right, then I would ask all of us to take a look at various – not all but in certain – audiences to see how the reality of students looks. We just urgently need to improve the care relationship – not by reducing students, but by increasing the number of teachers. In other words, we urgently need more teachers; that is, ahead. The budget itself: €3.3 billion in science and research, which is good, that is €62 million more than in the previous year, and that is why we will be very clear in this regard. However, I would like to say one thing, and I would like to underline the comments made by my colleague Kuntzl – you have unfortunately not responded to them in your remarks –: We lack a clear focus in the 2017 budget on the social situation of students. This is simply not perceived in intensity, nor is it reflected in the budget. We know the situation of the study aid system, which is simply completely obsolete. The students just can't live on it. You know the realities: One refers to study grants, one has 17 different jobs, so that one can somehow stay above water, one has a total pressure to reach each semester the required ECTS, and then perhaps still difficulty paying the monthly rent, regardless of whether one lives in a student residence or in a private home. Food, clothing and co must then be financed very clearly by the jobs or by the study aid. In addition to the cost of living, however, exam fees, preparation courses to be paid to start a course of study, books that also cost a lot – and we are not talking about that the work equipment, namely the laptop, could enter. So you see, in total, life for many students is not always so rosy; and these are not stories that come from me, but we have discussed this in relation to the student social survey before the summer also in the committee, and that is what the students surveyed say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] This means that we urgently need a reform of the study aid system. I would really ask you to take this €25 million, even if they are not in the budget now. We all want this, even the ÖH demands it. It's an important component. I also know that you've done friendly nostrils if I can put it that way, and that's why I'd ask you to finally put it into practice. [[Cheerfulness with Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] The second point – not surprisingly for you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor – concerns student homes. Mr Kuntzl has already mentioned it: We have agreed in the government programme on the promotion of the establishment and rehabilitation of student homes. Where's the money? – And now there is even a reduction of €150 000, from €500 000 to € 350 000. These are, of course, peanuts compared to the total budget of €77 billion, but I also know that: You're ready to repaint. You said in the committee that the look is a bad one. I very much hope and appeal in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42206	Mr D. Kassager spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42228	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The Federal Minister has already said it: We talk about the same subject every year. – I can add that: Each year, the budgets are practically the same as in the previous year. In my view, too, this budget is a budget of continuation, a budget of an administrator, a budget with a few impulses. If we look at this: € 4.3 billion in relation to the 2-percent target. For me, 2 percent of GDP, i.e. €350 billion, is €7 billion. That's where we have a gap, a significant gap. So I have great doubts that this goal will be reached. Basic research has been addressed by you: The FWF had been constantly increasingly taught. I don't see that. I see €200 million in the budgets 2015, €180 million in 2016 and € 175 million in 2017. If you're panicking now: It's not that bad, because there's the setbacks. So have on demand in the Committee They also said that €24 million is still out of the reserve, so that we would only be back at the same level of 2015. So I don't see any big increases in that. And this research billion is beautiful and good, we're talking about the 2017 budget here. What may come from 2018, 2019 et cetera is less relevant to me at this time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] Let's see what the Council for Research and Technology Development has already said and urged in its mid-term review of the FTI 2020 strategy in 2015! I do not recognise any corresponding reactions from the Ministry since 2015. We have de facto 2017, and the 2017 budget also reflects the same state for me. The Council notes that we are lagging behind in the innovation performance vis-à-vis the Innovation Leaders. The Council notes that, in general, the dynamics of our education system is not sufficient; leading countries are much more dynamic. Thirdly, the Council notes that the performance of the tertiary education system is insufficient. Few indicators are achieved, i.e. target values such as the number of MINT graduates or expenditure per student. We are very badly on the way to Switzerland, for example. The Council also notes that the weaknesses in basic research are unchanged, both as regards the overall level of funding and the share of competitive funding. Fifthly, the Council notes that the advantage of research and innovation in companies is slowly being lost. The Council notes sixthly that the R&D quota and, above all, its private financing share de facto stagnating. Although this is slightly more than 3 percent, it has stagnated for years and is also far from the target of 3.76 percent, which has already been revised downwards; originally it was 4 percent. I do not see in the budget any measures to address these reminders and proposals from the Council. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Where are the others?]] This means, in conclusion, that: In my opinion, this budget for science and research is a budget of continuation, a budget of administration, a budget without dynamics, a budget of stagnation, a budget with which we will certainly not achieve the 2020 FTI objectives, i.e. innovation leader.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42281	Mr Ing. Hofinger is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42303	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! I would like to start by referring to a few previous speakers. Sigi Maurer is, I think, not in the hall now, but one thing I have to say, I've been very careful: It was not a single positive word about the budget for research and science. To Mrs Gamon I would like to say: There was already a lot of positive. But I have to tell you one thing, because you spoke to the Medical Faculty in Upper Austria: If you know the problem of lack of doctors and know that it is proven that doctors are more likely to stay where they have been trained, then I believe that this is a very important solution. We in Upper Austria need this medical faculty, and it has already established itself very well. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Gamon and Mr Steinbichler.]] Of course, for our economic growth, science and research are very important, and I believe that this is understandable for a future-oriented country like Austria. I am glad that we have also been able to increase the budget in this area, also in the university sector, but of course also in the high school sector. I would like to take this out a little more precisely, because we have been able to increase funding for the places of study, and I believe that is exactly the area that we need to promote – not for our own purpose, but because it is simply called for. In many private conversations during company visits, more and more is required: We need exactly these professionals from the vocational colleges! – I believe that with the increase in this area, we are getting closer to the government target of 50,000 places. I believe that we are on a very good path, because, like education, economic needs are changing. I think we're on a very good way. However, I would like to make a point here: We need a vocational college, especially in the agricultural sector. I would like to point out two reasons why the agricultural colleges are so important to us: In the agricultural sector in particular, there is a development, especially for non-stop organic holdings and is very positive. That's where we need to re-adjust. In the fields of agricultural technology and agricultural marketing, we need to catch up and that would be very suitable for professional universities. Especially in Upper Austria, we would have very good location opportunities to enter into cooperations with our neighbours, with Bavaria. That is why I hope that we can continue in this area and open up financial resources for these colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42364	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42385	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no question that universities, science and research are the central pillars for a good, forward-looking Development is both of society and of the economy. The question is: How does this budget meet the general challenges? This is not only about this breakdown, but also about others that we are going to discuss subsequently. How is it, on the one hand, fair to the fact that Austria now has 10th place in the Innovation Leader Contest? How, on the other hand, are Austria and the knowledge site Austria generally meeting the international dynamics and challenges? Although there are certainly different efforts in this budget, the figures say something else. When it comes to universities, students, it is only necessary to compare the figures of Austria, Switzerland and Bavaria. In Switzerland 50 000 € are spent per student, the neighbours in Bavaria spend 26 000 €, in Austria the value is just 12 000 €. This is a huge difference in resources for students. Since we know and there is always the commitment to the need to force science and the technical subjects, I would also like to mention the figures for the technical universities: ETH Zurich is worth €78 000, compared to the TU München, it is €33 000, but only €11 000 in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, you know these are factors that, of course, also influence the number of graduates. That is where it is to be used and the budgets to be increased. In general, let us consider the budgetary development, from a meta-level: If one sees the development of the shares of UG 31, 33 and 34, all of which are responsible for the research field, then one realizes that for the year 2017 only 6.32 percent of the total budget is planned – 6.32 percent! If you look at the years by 2020 in the Federal Financial Framework Act, you even determine a falling share. Mr Vice-Chancellor, these are the points that worry us. These are the areas where it is necessary to take concrete action. Of course, we also know the situation of the institutions working in the field of basic research. It is a challenge each year to bring together the corresponding budgets. It is difficult if one cannot expect planning and legal certainty. The universities have a lot better with the service agreements, but this problem is still not solved. Therefore, we believe that it is urgently necessary to install a research funding law. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you are interested in the fact that research, science, universities are developing well, I am looking for you to support this today.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42458	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42523	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42546	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I should like to welcome the fact that all the previous speakers called for increases in the scientific and research budget, that they welcomed this and underlined the importance of this central future area. I'm forwarding that this is also a very central area for me. For future development, for all that we have discussed in recent days, in all the major challenges we face that the future brings, science and research are likely to play the central role. Science will also have a role to play in responding to challenges such as climate change, energy transition, digitalisation. What does the working world of the future look like? How will our economy continue? These are very central challenges for which we will also need science. Mr Kassinger – he is now, I believe, not here – but what is not going on is not quite a fair distribution of roles. We have been discussing in recent days, everyone has priorities in their area. Leo Steinbichler is very intensive in the field of agricultural support. We have discussed social systems, safety in Austria, health, all the topics. But it must then be combined in total – and that is the difference in the role distribution. But this is not what Mr Kassager is doing, because he says that we actually need increases in every area. There was only criticism. Actually, it has not been enough for him in any area, but it must be everywhere. On the other hand, however, we also say: We do not want additional debt either, and in fact we want to reduce taxes again for all sectors, for the economy and for the working people. - That's not how it all goes together. Yes, I recognize that we also need to improve significantly in the scientific and research budget; only, this distribution of roles and fairness would I simply expect in this area. In spite of all the criticism that we are in this It is not possible to ignore everything that has already been implemented. They say: We are not interested in the research billions, which are now planned in addition, because it is only planned sometime in the future, we do not want to see them at all, and the improvements in the field of basic research are in reality also uninteresting. – You just don’t want to see that, but that’s how it all doesn’t fit together! Yes, we have taken the right steps, we are on the right path. There's still a lot to be done. The construction sites are, I think, from basic research to the field of applied research to the funding of study sites. We really need to get better in many areas, take the right steps and take them. Two areas are still very important to me personally: One is the social situation of students. There must be no difference between the parents' home and whether the parents have enough money that the children can afford to study. It must be the talents, the abilities of young people and not the wallet of parents. We just need to get better in the field of scholarships. This is a very, very central point. Mr Maurer has already mentioned this today, because this is simply not known to many: Working next to studying is no longer the exception, but now the rule. Two thirds of students work on average 20 hours a week. These are the figures that have been taken into account by: Studies have been carried out. This cannot be mentioned often enough, because it is really about existence and about our future. A second area, which is very important to me, is the situation of young researchers, who often have to go further and tremble from third-party funding to third-party funding projects, as it goes on. We need to get better in the future. That's where I hope for the research billions. Finally, I would like to thank the entire research community, all the young people at the universities, the scientists and scientists for the great work they are doing under definitely not always easy conditions for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42598	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42619	Madam President. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal estimate 2017, breakdown 31: Science and research: The science and research budget is increasing again in 2017, by around EUR 84 million. A total of around 4.36 billion euros are budgeted. This is an increase of about 2.2 percent. The increase in the budget is divided into several areas. For example, for construction measures at the AKH in Vienna 2017, € 42,5 million will be spent. From 2016 to 2020, it will be around 220 million euros. Mr Minister, I do not know exactly whether this allocation is very appropriate in the budget. There is additional € 13 million for the expansion of technical universities. This is a very important factor, ladies and gentlemen, as it also sets out work-related measures. It also provides for an increase in the base budget of the universities by around EUR 5 million. Other transfers to universities amount to around 20 million euros. That's a very good approach. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, High House! Science and research are of high importance. In order to safeguard and further expand the international competitiveness of Austria, it is not necessary to save in this area. This budget has some very good approaches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42654	Next, Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42675	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Fortunately, the budget of specialist universities was increased by € 13 million. For the year 2017, additional €100 million will be made available from the funds of the stability levy for credit institutions for the expansion of approximately 5,000 colleges. In principle, this is very welcome, a very positive development. However, the question arises in which areas new places of study are created. In the main line of the Federal Government, it has been voted to create or to offer new offers, especially in the MINT areas. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. MINT subjects are mathematics, computer science, natural sciences and technology. These innovation sectors are very much in demand in the Austrian economy. In particular, skilled workers in applied science, research and development are constantly being sought. In these forward-looking areas, many Austrian companies are leading companies. Unfortunately, I have to address something in all its clarity: Everyone knows how important our agriculture is, how high the quality of our food is. I would particularly like to stress this and express my high appreciation for it. The ambitions of some federal states, particularly Lower Austria and Upper Austria, to install an agricultural FH and perhaps to reinterpret it towards MINT development, is very adventurous. We have in Austria the very good, internationally networked BOKU Vienna, which covers all these areas scientifically and in practice very well. Mr. Mitterlehner, Minister of State, therefore, is my request that the path of production close to the FH towards Industry 4.0, technology, automation and mechatronics be stepped up at meaningful locations. There is the creation of value added, creativity and, in particular, the competitiveness that we need for the future and which is becoming increasingly important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42714	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42736	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We discussed the field of education yesterday. There are, of course, a number of construction sites, as well as in the science and research area to be discussed today, but in principle we have seen that a satisfactory development has taken place, that the budgets are rising and that there is also a goal-oriented approach. The same is true of your area today, Mr Vice-Chancellor. I would like to begin by saying a sentence which I have also said to the Minister for Education in a personal discussion. I can tell you openly that education is a very big concern to me. We have entered a new area that concerns both the university and the educational universities. I ask you: Take a look at the fact that the new educational education continues to be in good shape, because it is the most sustainable contribution we can make in the field of education, science and research to see that we have the best trained educators for the future! This is a new tree we planted, and I hope it actually becomes strong. I ask you to look at it accordingly. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Daughters.]] As regards research and development, it has already been said that the stated objective is to increase the share of GDP to 3.76 percent. We are already in the EU comparison – we were still preparing for today’s discussion – in third place in the field of research and development and thus clearly before Germany and Denmark and also far above the EU average. We will, I am sure, achieve the goal of being a leader in innovation in 2020. Mr Kassager, I am convinced that we will do so. You will see that, then you will certainly still belong to this House. I welcome the research package, which will also generate additional private investment with €700 million, so that we can talk about a real research billion for the years 2018 to 2021. Of course, we also demand an adequate package for universities in the Federal Financial Framework Act 2018 to 2021. To the field of science: Also there were and will increase the budgets for the period 2016 to 2018 by €630 million. It is crucial that the situation for students is improved by creating new professorships. Finally, I would like to stress the appeal that our scientific speakers have already made: The decisive thing will be that the care relationship will not be improved by reducing the number of students, but by increasing the number of professorships. All possible measures must be taken to this end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42781	I have no further comments on science and research subdividing. This concludes the discussions on this subject. [[10:17:41]] UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 40: Economy
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42811	We come to the negotiation of subheadings 33 and 40. The debate is under one. First, Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42836	Madam President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister! In short, the figures on the UG 40, economy: The budget for 2017 is €408 million, which is a significant increase compared to 2016, namely by €45 million. Before we get into jubilation: It is still €50 million less than we had in 2013 – only once to correct the figures. What is included in this €45 million? – Included is, for example, the start-up package for innovative and growth-intensive companies. We ask ourselves: Why is that restricted? Are not innovative companies less eligible for funding? – We believe that they are just as worthy of funding. Then we have a little bit more: Risk capital premium, Business Angel fund. From the dimension, 45 million € are, of course, the proverbial drop on the hot stone and clearly too little. Not included in the budget is the investment increase premium, twice € 87.5 million distributed over the next few years. There are also complicated calculations and a great administrative burden. Why not simply make an investment allowance? – This would be much more administrative-extensive. Second criticism: How does the funding look? – Once again, new debt is financed, on pump. This is not a big boost for the economy as a whole. The relationships, just to clarify this once: We spend 160 million € on economic promotion. The costs of migration amount to € 2 000 million. I would also like to have said that. One can now discuss what we spend this €160 million for and who gets it. I picked out a point: The Minister has announced in the Committee a large internationalization offensive of €56 million – distributed over four years, i.e. €14 million a year – through the external organisation of the Chamber of Commerce; that is, a lot of money for the Chamber of Commerce. For what? – Internationalisation, increasing exports. At the same time, we have been holding fast for years to these terrible Russian sanctions, which have already caused billions of damage to the Austrian economy. They're already wondering: What is the political responsibility for these billions of damage? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it's a mix: Who represents Austria, who represents the interests of Austrian entrepreneurs abroad? – It is a mix of Foreign Minister, Minister of Economic Affairs, Federal Chancellor, Federal President. For me, these are the people who, through prudent economic policy and foreign policy, are supposed to represent the interests of the economy of Austria in the world. A word about the two candidates, who were on the 4th. The following are to be elected on 1 December: If you look at who is an important partner for Austria in the world, then this is undisputed Russia, then that is the United States of America. [[Abg. Hechtl: Is this an advertisement?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Hechtl, that's what we call free speech!]] In view of the statements made by the two candidates for the Federal President's election to these countries, I have been concerned by a candidate who is shaken by the President of the United States who is supported by a Mr Karas, who did not serve the President very kindly in the last plenary session, whether the interests of Austria regarding these two important trading partners USA and Russia would be well represented accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A final sentence on Russia's sanctions and the procedure on how the European Union deals with this problem: It is also one of our criticisms of the European Union that processes are taking place in the context of which smaller countries – and Austria is a smaller country – are simply overrun. If you remember the conference in Berlin: Obama and the Heads of Government of the five largest EU countries have decided to continue the Russian sanctions without even asking the 23 other countries; they are simply driving over it. This is precisely the point that we have to criticise without being put down as a non-European or otherwise. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nobert Hofer tries to weaken this, he is now on the move much in the Eastern European countries and is looking for alliance partners because we believe that the small people in the European Union have to form interest communities and can reach substantially more in these European bodies than alone with a common voice. In this context Norbert Hofer, in Hungary, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia, in Slovenia, in Croatia, in Bulgaria and in Romania, is on the road to build excellent relations with these countries, which, in the future, are of course taking advantage of us, to better enforce the interests of Austria within the framework of this European Union, and to prevent such drivers, as they have just happened, from happening again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42901	Deputies! You have not read the application text now. [[Abg. Kassinger: I forgot that, you're right!]] – You can read it out, it's your speaking time. They've announced it, but they haven't read it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42932	Thank you, Madam President. I forgot that now. For this purpose, for the time being, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e42980	This motion for a resolution has now been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43113	Mr Haubner is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43134	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! After the promotion we return to the chapter Economics. I believe, Mr Kassager, that in one respect we are of the opinion: We are looking forward to the increase in the economic budget, over €45 million. Of course, we also need to talk about the fact that we are currently living in a time when there are great challenges. [[Call the FPÖ:Tell us about Russia, about the economic sanctions!]] One only needs to look at America – one of Austria's most important trading partners – where the whole international market is now at risk of being shut down. Brexit is a challenge, and that is why we need to address these changes. We can do this best by investing in the economy, because only a strong economy creates and secures jobs and ensures that we continue to do well in the future and that we maintain global competitiveness. We are also putting the right measures in this budget, because with this budget we are strengthening the competitiveness of the Austrian economy, and that is a very central element. We need to see that, for example, we achieve a reduction in additional wage costs, and that is what we have done. We started in the previous year, and this year we will reduce the additional wage costs by 0.4 percent, which will gradually be €1 billion by 2018, which means a noticeable relief for our businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, we have already set an important impetus for commercial businesses with the craftsman bonus this year, and we will continue to do so in 2017. It turns out that this is very successful, because already in the first three months of this year, half of the funds were spent on this craftsman bonus – an important measure for entrepreneurs and, of course, for consumers, a classic win-win situation. It is particularly gratifying that we also support investment with the investment premium. For this we have at least € 87.5 million available in this year, which will still be employed in this respect. We will set the necessary impetus, and especially in my native country of Salzburg, which is an example of the investment premium, we have achieved a great success: With just under €90 million, investment targets were achieved that were higher than we thought of them at the time. At least 1,700 employees – which is also important – have benefited from this in the companies. This was a relatively simple, unbureaucratic project: If a company has invested an average of €200 000 in recent years, and for example this year has purchased a laser cutting plant of €600 000, it has now received an investment premium of €40 000 for this increase by €400 000. That's a great story. At the federal level, investment increases of €1.2 billion can be expected, and this also results in new jobs. I think that's very central, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A key point is: We're an entrepreneurship country! I think that's very important. We support the start-up package of business start-ups, this start-up package is a very important part of the package of measures to support the Austrian economy, and high million amounts are available for this. Considering that this is linked to the possibility of new employees being employed and exempt from additional labour costs, we will also be able to expect some impulses in the field of jobs. I would like to say once again that the essential advantage in this regard is that not only entrepreneurs benefit but also employees. This is a very important point – as with the craftsman bonus a classical win-win situation. In general, you can only say: This budget is a very good one. In particular, through the measures for the economy, it can be said that appropriate impulses are being made. So: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43180	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43201	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at budgets, of course you always ask the question in principle: What challenges do we face, what challenges do we face? – In Austria, we are experiencing rising unemployment, not only in Austria, but also in Europe. We have challenges regarding climate change. We have the topic of digitalisation/digital change with its impact on the economy as well as society and, in particular, on the labour market. We also have the big issue of migration movements. The question is: What does it take to find solutions? – One thing is clear: An important contribution to this will be innovation. Of course, innovations only come from the field of research, from the field of science, so it is of course important – that was already the subject of previous sub-division – to do so. Of course, there is also a need for improvement in the teaching of research in the economy, which we do not see implemented accordingly next year. This will be a further challenge in the coming years. However, let us come to the big issue of climate change! We have the Paris climate agreement. We have the determinations to do in order to avoid the consequences of climate change and to limit climate change. There is the great challenge of moving forward with a corresponding transformation of the economy. It is about decarbonisation and not less – this is the case of a consistent approach. That means, of course, doing something for the conversion of energy systems, i.e. having to do something for mobility. At the same time, these challenges are, of course, also a great opportunity for companies, especially Austrian companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, which are responsible for renewable energy, energy efficiency, environmental protection technologies and thus create thousands of jobs. However, it is necessary to put in place the appropriate measures. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you, too, have said that the greening of the tax system – and that is the revenue side of the budget – is long overdue. Of course, it is necessary to reduce subsidies for fossil energy sources, but of course it also needs the appropriate focus on expenditure; Keywords: Investment in the Rehabilitation Plan. When we look at the budget, we see that these were already greatly reduced in 2016, and these cuts will be maintained and the budget stabilized accordingly at a very low level – a mistake as we think. The second area: Yes, we support the small and medium-sized enterprises that are very successful in the fields of environmental and energy technology! That is where I am addressing the go-international initiative. We are funding the Chamber of Commerce with €16.5 million from this budget to implement these measures in order to assist these companies in taking up and being more present on export markets. Then, of course, the question arises: How much is reserved for environmental and energy technologies? – The answer to a question from the current debate is as follows: Now, just 2.3 million €! – Mr Vice-Chancellor, I think this is simply too little. The next area: municipal investment programme. Of course, it is necessary to support local authorities accordingly, to strengthen infrastructure, to invest, and thus to create security for the future and to secure jobs. There, too, there can be a focus on renewable energy, energy efficiency and forward-looking economies. I come to another area: A good competitive situation is something that also stimulates companies accordingly, but of course also protects consumers. The Federal Competition Authority is doing very good work. The budget for the Federal Competition Authority has been raised to a minimum, and it has been - we know this from the debates in the Economic and Social Committee. the launch of the project – 10 planning sites intended for the Federal Competition Authority. But what do I have with planned planning posts if the funding is not secured? The budget is missing in order to ensure that the plans are increased accordingly by the Federal Competition Authority. This too is an area, Mr Minister, where, as we believe, there is a need to do so, since we also know that the Minister of Justice will cash €20 million in the year that the cartel courts impose on fines. So there is a different need for action in summa summarum. We will see just how these priorities will also be reflected in concrete implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43261	Mr Matznetter was next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43283	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! In parallel to the discussions here on the chapter Science, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce held its Economics Parliament, and guest speakers were the new Wifo Chief Professor Badelt. His key statements are not much different from those of his predecessor Professor Aigerger. Of course, he is constantly recommending structural reforms and priorities, but he admits that steps are now being taken that may be too weak and could be even better, but that they go exactly in the right direction – and that this is noticeable, he has also explained to us there. The economy is now growing, with us forecasting growth of 1.5 percent, 1.6 percent for the next time, and we are out of the stagnation phase. The basis for this is the efforts of the Federal Government to do everything possible to get growth-strengthening elements into politics and thus to combat, above all, unemployment, which is still far too high despite increasing employment. These are the chapters we are discussing here. Mr Kassegger, only on the verge of: Yes, Russia's sanctions are an important issue, but we're talking about the budget here. I am of your opinion that these sanctions were about as intelligent as if I wanted to get someone to shoot at their own knees – no question! [[Abg. Kassinger: I will explain to you the connection to the budget!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Why are you always there?]] Only: We are not helped by the fact that this is now being heated up in party political terms with motions for resolutions. We must work together to ensure that these sanctions run out in compliance with the Minsk process, and we must work together to ensure that this happens. I don't think it's a lot of that. As regards go-international – as both you and colleague Ruperta Lichtenecker have referred to it –: Talk to the companies that use it! I am so often – whether with Heinz Fischer or last with Jörg Leichtfried – in Mexico and can say: One of the major priorities is our excellent companies in the area of green energy, waste to energy, water supply, hydropower; they are present who benefit from this. We are partly world market leaders in this area. That's a great program. I am not here to defend that the Economic Chamber, dominated by the Economic Federation, will receive the money, but especially the External Economic Organisation and precisely the go-international initiative is one that makes sense, brings something and really is for the companies. We've done a lot: The Federal Government has made the start-up programme, we have the venture capital premium, the Business Angel Fund; the municipal investment programme has already been addressed, as has the investment increase premium or the Seed financing. Something really happens! That's what you see on the budget. The impact is reflected in more growth and more employment. I think that might also praise the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43330	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43351	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Granted, this effective budget of €500 million is not extremely high compared to the budgets of other ministries. In fact, you are concerned with psychology, as Mr Haubner pointed out by saying: What is the economy like? What impulses do I make? I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, with regard to the Cite the objectives of the funds: “In the years of particular economic challenges, it is important to set growth impulses for the future.” Last year, in your speech on the budget, you said: “(...) It is thought and intentioned that with the budget and in particular with the tax reform included in the budget, growth should start accordingly.” – Not as you thought. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Is it too!]] If you are courageous – courage has escaped from your vocabulary – then you also have to trust yourself. We business entrepreneurs, and if you need to set impulses, you can't do that. They fail to make a genuine trade reform. Trust yourself! Be courageous, trust to contradict the President of the Chamber of Economics, Leitl! Be Courageous and Trust You are opposed to the detainees, the true regents of this country, the social partners. Be brave in debureaucratisation! I admit that you have taken the right steps as regards the reduction of procedures for plant permits, but a bit more is still going on! Trust yourself! I'll take you by the hand. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You just have to trust yourself – trust! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Not always say: We need courage! - They're floskels. You could also write “must” differently. Courage also means: M itterlehner you nterpress T atendrang. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In this respect, it is also very important that you take the psychological steps that you really trust, are courageous. Take a start and say: Now we have to reform the country! Now we have to reform the trade order! Now we have to debureautize! Now we have to help entrepreneurs free them from this bureaucratic insanity that we encounter every day, give them air, air to breath! That's what companies need, that's psychology. You can't pour out promotions with the filling horn, that's not possible, we have to save, but you can do one thing: You can debureautize. [[Abg. Grill: Father Josef Schellhorn!]] Today you don't need a business angel, today you need a bureaucracy angel, who leads you through this madness, through this government jungle and through this control madness. That would be impulses you could really relieve small and medium-sized businesses. That would be the impulse we need. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let me just say something about go-international and the Chamber of Commerce. They therefore support this once again with money from the Chamber of Commerce, where the rulers still live very feudally, have created a dependence on us and want to have a bitter's existence. Why is just going to be promoted in this way, but the EW budget for tourism does not valorize or fatten up? Why isn't that happening? This is just as an export offensive, which must be equally promoted that foreign customers come to us that guests come to us. To say here: We promote go-international, distribute once again a bit!, that is all quite nice and beautiful, but the ÖW budget was only fattened up with one-off budgets, one-time actions. I think one thing is particularly important: If you want to do something for small and medium-sized enterprises – and should – you also have to think about tourism, then you just have to think about the valleys that live on tourism! Every craftsman lives on it, every craftsman in the Stubaital lives on it, even the register manufacturers live on the fact that the economy flourishes. Then they don't have to think about stopping, just like I always do, that they say, We lock up, we don't want anymore, we just don't want to! These entrepreneurs are courageous because they say they can't anymore, they don't want to participate in this bureaucratic insanity anymore. And there is the courage that I recommend to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: Trust yourself! Finally, trust to make a trade reform of the legs that has washed! Trust yourself to debureaucrate, and trust yourself once to say no! Finally, say: No, dear social partners, you're not that strong now! And once you have the confidence to object to Mr Leitel, who says right now in front of the Economic Parliament: Make Austria great again! – So it's not ridiculous at all! He even puts it now: Make Austria great again! - How does he want to do that? He only makes it with our forced contributions by creating new dependencies again.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43435	Mr Mag. Lettenbichler is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43456	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear listeners at the gallery! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, dear Josef Schellhorn, I appreciate you, but that wasn't a motivating speech now. You have spoken a lot about psychology, but in your speech, in which you speak of courage and conjure up that courage, you have often spoken the word No. But No and courage, I think, do not put up with it so well, it is important to measure policy on the facts, and we want to talk about the budget today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They are sitting there for the first time today, while we are already talking about the budget for the third day and discussing it intensively. Of course, we want to highlight the positive things on the part of the government, while the opposition – that is this black-and-white pattern – sees nothing but bad. We may see a lot of positive results, but we can refer to the corresponding figures that are reflected here in the budget. It should also be pointed out that this budget, as in the past, was created in a difficult situation. Since I came to Parliament in 2008, the overall situation has not improved much. We have been stumbled from a crisis or from an inadequacy to the next, not here in Austria, but the factors of influence that we cannot share have not stopped in front of our country either. I believe, however, that we have better survived the 2008/2009 crisis with the measures we have put in place than all other European countries. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is important to preserve the budgetary discipline that we have exercised in recent years, even in the coming years. On this point, I believe it is important to stress that offensive measures have also been taken, as Mr Haubner has already mentioned. The start-up package was donated with over €32 million, and this is also very important as a signal that we need entrepreneurs in this country that we want to promote young entrepreneurs. We need, in principle, better access, including greater appreciation for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship is actually too little taught in schools, our students are being trained as officials, as employees, but it is generally, even in universities, little awareness that we need more entrepreneurs. It is also important to note that, as has already been announced, the signal is to put in place measures to reduce additional wage costs. For me, this is a real turnaround that will be achieved. In the following year, employers' contributions to FLAF will be reduced by 0.4 percent and in 2018 by another 0.2 percent. This may not sound like a lot in percentage points, but it is just under €1 billion, which will make up the total cost reduction. It is also positive that there is a continuation of €20 million in the craft bonus. This sets impulses for house renovation, for renovation, which is particularly important for SMEs in the craft sector. For the third time in a row, it has succeeded in creating a structural zero deficit. This is especially due to our Minister of Finance Hans Jörg Schelling, but of course also to the coalition that this work has created together. And it is also good that we have introduced the debt brake by next year, because this will make it easier to ensure that the budget discipline is maintained in the future. Finally, because this was, of course, also a subject in the budget discussions, another point that I would like to make: the abolition of the cold progression, which the Minister of Finance also wants. Here, I think, I may also speak on behalf of the ÖVP, if I say that we do not want a distinction between salaries here, but that the abolition of cold progression should benefit all workers. No matter if they earn little, earn mediocre, earn good or very well, they are all performance providers for us, and all of them are relieved. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43519	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43541	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I think that the economic chapter is a very essential chapter. I can start with climate change in the first place. I used to say we saw off the branch we were sitting on with a big saw. I have already asked the agricultural budget yesterday whether it makes sense in a country where there is supposed to be an overproduction of beef, to choose from New Zealand, Argentina and Brazil. That's always the famous world trade, which I understand to be too stupid, but I know you can make more money with speculation than with work. This climate change is already unmistakable in its effects. But no one speaks of the thousand dead by the Hurricane in Tahiti, of the economic damage caused by these massive storms, which are increasing by this proven climate change. It was confirmed yesterday in a daily newspaper: The polar ice is melted around the twelve-fold area of Austria. Where it usually has minus 25 degrees, it now has zero degrees. Friends, before that you can't close your eyes and say we must further globalize, globalisation is the salvation! Mr Minister, I have already said this at the general debate: To escape in world trade agreements and world trade pacts, because we have too few concepts, that does not solve any problems, not at all economic! I may mention it as an example, because I am proud that it is companies of my federal state, more specifically, my district of Vöcklabruck: Lenzing AG with 3 500 employees or the really modern company STIWA with 1,200 employees. Mr. Sticht has built this successful company on the green meadow and is very successful with his skilled, diligent employees – without CETA and without TTIP! Why? Because quality is our trump, from food to industrial production. And you finally have to separate this strictly. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] International trade is not a problem at all, because there is quality there. – Then always come the conspiracy theories: We can't shoot ourselves! Whoever is against these free trade agreements doesn't mean it well and he wants to isolate Austria! – No, if I have something good to sell, if I have good, innovative products to offer, then I am asked on the market! And we need to promote this quality. I then come to talk about gastronomy and hotels in particular. Mr. Minister, what paralyses the economy is the superfluous bureaucracy. But the repeatedly announced red tape is not taking place. Last mention was made of the presentation by former Vice-Cancellor Androsch and that of the former Minister of Economic Affairs, Taus, who gave the following example – it is also mentioned in the book “Consistency”, which Androsch brought out with the President of the Court of Auditors Moser –: If the same construction requests in Austria employ 17 officials who are being handled in Switzerland with two – I come to Switzerland again – then we know where the chains are, where the obstacles are, why the entrepreneurs simply lose courage and say they don't want to continue because they can't recommend that – and that's so tragic – to their successor generation. Because I just mentioned Switzerland: I have also mentioned this Swiss cadre during the general debate and have read out their objectives, and I also recommend reading them, because they are interesting; we do not always need to look at China or India. In Switzerland we have an unemployment of 3.6 percent due to the successful activity of this organization; there are also very high wages. And the very essential: Since 2011, Switzerland has had 440 patents per 1 million inhabitants in the Global Innovation Index, followed by Germany with 300 and third in Japan with 150 patents per 1 million inhabitants. That's just the hard facts. Such organisations should be promoted. In this direction you have to think innovatively instead of shattering companies with even more bureaucracy and administration. I think that's essential. I should also like to mention Germany again. During our visit to the Bundestag in Berlin we have heard that there is a great order, but they are already working on a new action programme for the future. That's the essential difference. That's like playing football: If you're one too zero in the lead, you give gas and don't turn back and close because you just want to win one to zero. That's the difference with us. Since 2010, the Germans have had this agenda 2010 with which the essential foundations for this success have been laid. Because the trade regulation was addressed: Yes, you have to be careful, the regulation alone is not the problem, it is about the bureaucracy that has already been addressed. The Germans have major problems with these many new companies through the liberalisation of the trade regulations – for which there is a broadcast from the IG BAU. Of the 250 000 established, 70 percent have already disappeared from the market, and one has to look at that from a consumer point of view – the Peppi Muchich agrees –: How does it look with liability, with the arrest? What then does the consumer who has already paid for the service do if damage occurs? That is a very important point. However, I am convinced that we guarantee our Austrian quality, for which we are known and which it is also important to keep, accordingly. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I should also like to express the concern of many of the company's directors who have told me: It's almost impossible, you're always talking about so many unemployed, and we don't get any employees! – Especially – I have announced it – I can express the difficult situation in the gastronomy. This book has written the famous Linz gastronomy of the Stadtbräu Josef, Günter Hager; a hard title: [[in respect of the book kept up-to-date]] “Fucking Gastro”, but if you see what paragraph it has and if you read it, this fact picture with all the hardness of the gastronomy, you can only congratulate him. We know that every third virgin will give up. Why is this not the matter of the Chamber of Commerce that a major competitor of gastronomy is this supermarket and furniture house gastronomy, which drags with cheap menus to attract customers to the business? [[Abg. Auer: As a host you can also write a batch!]] I will also describe it as a farmer, Mr Auer. – The Chamber of Commerce in Vienna is an example, because it has issued such beer lids that are located in the locals, including the Günter Hager. [[keep a beer lid in height]] On which stands – a new menu –: ‘director’s foam soup with beleaguered knoodel’. I believe that this has brought it to the point of how a practitioner feels about the situation. I think it would be very essential for us to involve practitioners in our parliamentary work, in scientific work much more. It does not help the best scientific concept if it is not feasible in practice. And be grateful to those practitioners who are willing to fight for their future, secure jobs and pay wages! At this point, I am grateful to all entrepreneurs, all employees – it only works in a fair partnership – who support this excellent country of Austria, this location Austria with its taxes. That's a sincere thank you. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, I should like to make one more motion for a resolution. We discussed this yesterday: If the guests come to us if the guests want to enjoy our cultural landscape, our super water quality, our culture in urban space, then they also want to have regional, honest products on the plate. I think it's very essential that this is going through like a red thread. This is also a tip for the Austrian advertising: This is a useful action that can only be supported, namely that the country gas farms are now supported by the government with non-sensory loans. The Federal Government is also paying the liability premium, which is welcome, but in my view it is also appropriate to support the production and processing of regional food, because this is budgetaryly effective, because it secures regional jobs and because it upgrades regional small businesses and local agriculture. A well-kept cultural landscape can only be guaranteed within the framework of an indispensable partnership. Or does anyone know an alternative? If we were to do this with paid parish workers or with appointed officials, that would, I believe, not be eligible for funding. But it should also be that our products, our regional products are being purchased here. Yesterday I have a tension sheet from New Zealand over Brazil to the Mekongdelta – keywords: Pangasius-filet and palm oil/regenwald – drawn. Therefore, our motion for a resolution on a quality seal law, because this topic is directly related to our processing companies, the hotel industry and the gastronomy: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43624	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43709	Mr Vice-Chancellor Dr Mitterlehner came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43730	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Leo, you wanted to write a book too, didn't you? You were a host, too. But the title: “From waiter to millionaire – and back” is already occupied. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Now I didn't understand you!]] – Someone has already written a book entitled “From waiter to millionaire – and back”. This title is already occupied – when it comes to the book you wanted to write. [[New condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is wonderful to go home with this title here, which is embarrassing enough. I do not want to press ahead with addressing the problems that exist there and there – but that is not necessarily the way to improve content. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] But to the perhaps more important: I would like to follow up on what we discussed last year. You may remember – Sepp Schellhorn, among other things, has addressed the situation of the economy – that all of you or many of you did not get tired at the time to point out how bad the constellation would be, how bad the rankings would be and what there is in fear over the next few years. I would like to say to you, because the tax reform has just been addressed: Look You are also looking at the reports of the economic researchers! Last year we had an increase of 0.8 percentage points, this year it will be pretty sure to be 1.7 percentage points. I would say that is the double of the previous year – and one reason we have achieved this was the tax reform, Mr Schellhorn! That's why: It was right to set it up in this form, and it has helped us accordingly, although not dealing with the economic crisis – it is still there in part – but the delle – compared to the other countries – which some of us have thought quite unfairly to compensate more than it is. We are on the average again in economic growth, even partly better. On a second point I noticed: It is the hotel industry that has been addressed to tourism. You may also have noticed that we write record figures in this area, not only this year, but also last year, last year, and that – I know an institution that has even warned of making investments – we have the double investment in tourism, in hotel industry compared to the last few years, and also have a particularly good mood in this area, because the market is properly assessed. In this context, Austria's advertising was addressed: This has carried out an domestic campaign, which has accordingly contributed to the fact that we are making great growth rates and are definitely again a record this year, not only for the nights, but also for the revenues – and the revenues are the crucial point. So it has also increased the scope. But you can then deduce to the second: It will not be that bad then, even with regard to the mood, the famous psychology. Do you know how many business start-ups we had last year? – Again a record number: We are approaching the 30,000. Fortunately, then, not many of the negative representations and other fears can be held back. That's gratifying! And last, but not least: We've also improved in the rankings. Although I do not think much of the rankings because they are partly based on opinion polls, in the final effect there are three rankings – World Economic Forum, IMD ranking, Innovation Scoreboard – in which we are moving forward. So that you don't repeat me now, I'd fall into joy: The need for further development up, the potential is there. Of course, we must work hard to make sure that we are among the first five in Europe and not just among the best, but because it is always said that we have been sent down or something else, we have all “sanded up” this year. – To make this happen once again! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Dear Sepp Schellhorn, you come out here and say economy is psychology. I'll give you that. The purchasing power is to be forced positively. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] - What? – The purchasing power and investment activities are to be forced, and we have therefore set up in this area. We've tied up a start-up package, and I think it's right to force innovation in this area. We use it quite intensively, and it is also certified by experts that this is a good package. On the other hand, we have noticed that it is not enough for rationalisation investments to be made, so we must ensure that enlargement investments are made. In this context, the €78.5 million we are putting into play next year is really important from my point of view, especially for the medium-sized sector. The Salzburg model has been addressed: If someone says that this would be bureaucratic, because it has to be calculable, towards the investments of the last three years – it should be an impulse and not a take-away effect – then this is also the explanation. We have once had such an exemption scheme – and takeover effects up to and including aircraft. That's what we want to prevent this time. It's supposed to invest those who really use us! In this sense, I think, we have done well. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] Another point in this context has now been mentioned, that is the trade regulation. It's not a budget-relevant, but: Sepp Schellhorn, first of all I don't like to be taken by your hand because I don't know where I'm going. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP and ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] But I don't think I need courage to contradict you, but I just need knowledge of facts. And quite honestly: Yes – this has also been confirmed by you – as far as the facilities and many other plant and other topics are concerned, we have taken some steps there. I think these lead us into the future and are positive and deregulating. I agree with all those who say there will never be an input going to that one could say it's all done, it's nothing more, it's all totally free. There has to be a balance act, also as regards neighboring rights and others – I have them too – but that we are moving in the right direction in plant law, of which I am quite sure. The next point is the question to which to object. When I'm in the system, and system is called a quality system for us – one can also regulate it differently, like America, with liabilities, we have to change enormously, because there are auxiliary workers and many processes, but certainly also a good economy; we have just said that we are going the way of the quality system with apprentices, master exams and also a focus on competitions, that we can keep there – well, then I'm going the way we're going about it in terms of regulated commerce, and I'm expanding it's scope. If I expand the scope – if I increase to 30 percent there – I also think your problem or problem of hoteliers with travel agencies or other ancillary activities is also addressed. And the pressure on reform in the Chamber's organisation is also being exerted, because if I can do more in a subject area, it is likely that there will be a need for reform for itself somewhere in relation to the membership of the section. That is why I believe that this is a smart path and a good path, and I believe that this is not the crucial area that is important for the budget. Internationalisation is more important for the budget. Mr Kassinger, I have really heard this with enthusiasm what you have said about the sanctions. I agree with you that sanctions are not necessarily a good means. We should force the political process, as in the area of Iran, that is the better way. [[Abg. Kogler: But if it doesn't help?]] We share the sanctions in solidarity because the EU wanted to do so, but we are also trying to support the way of negotiation behind the scenes. This will help us. [[Abg. Kogler: With the cramp we will not limit the Russian war policy either! This is a serious breach of international law in Ukraine! There can be a hundred delegations...!]] Another point, however, is somehow paradox: They have also mentioned the United States, and in fact the United States is in the list of our partners with almost €10 billion of trade in second place. If you can still remember your broadcasts, not from you personally, but from Mr Kickl and others – listen now, then we can discuss them! – in which you claimed that CETA and other trade agreements would be devil pacts? [[Abg. Kassinger: The 10 billion we have already done without...!]] – Yeah, what's right now: Do we have to force trade now, or do we not have to force trade? Do international trade now have jobs, or do they not depend on them? – You know, you should just decide so that you don’t even say this and say that. Either this is true, or the other is true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: No, we always say the same thing! They only interpret it differently!]] Look, I see that we generate 60 percent of our gross domestic product by export. That's not little. This also depends on our prosperity, on which jobs depend. I believe that, of course, we will have rules for this, and that we will need them in the future, with trade agreements as a whole – if they are well done – and if they are done well. That will have to be your latest friend, Mr. Trump, someday. So in order not to remove us too far from the budget: I think we're with... [[Abg. Steinbichler: This cynicism is very damaging to the ÖVP!]] – I can tell you, with your detailed examples, you are very hurt! So take a look at you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Back to general: I believe that this budget – I cannot cover everything with funding – would be the wrong way – is right where it is concerned to move in the field of forcedness, especially young businesses, start-ups with support, with appropriate framework conditions, to re-establish that. I think we're on a good way. The second aspect is small and medium-sized enterprises. These too receive appropriate support in order to create it myself – I think that is also the right way to invest again. I am sure that we can continue the positive figures in terms of total data so that we can continue next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43898	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43919	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! A good budget starts with a social manuscript. We invest in the labour market because we see every unemployed person and every unemployed person as a clear task. We are fighting for jobs at three levels: For the first time, we start where the jobs are – in the small and medium-sized enterprises. We continue in 2017 what we have started with the trade order light and with the investment increase premium. We create incentives to invest in this area. The investment growth premium itself, for example, is estimated at € 175 million for the next two years, but will bring private investments of an estimated €1.2 billion. [[Abg. Rossmann: But not in this budget!]] Secondly, we promote education, because training is a key position – today, even more up-to-date tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. In times of digitization, it is also said to stay here at the ball. In this context, I would like to address the school reform and mention – I am glad that something positive has been set in motion – then the training requirement up to 18, the training guarantee for all under 25 and last, but not least apprenticeship training – we invest 1.6 million euros alone, a very good investment. Thirdly, we are able to pursue holistic approaches. As far as investment in infrastructure is concerned, for example, the ÖBB, ASFINAG and BIG alone invest €4 billion in addition to many other measures such as broadband expansion. Ladies and gentlemen, we Social Democrats see one thing quite clearly: The focus must always be on human beings – and this clearly expresses this budget, because more than half of the investment, namely €39.2 billion, goes to the areas of work, social affairs, health and families. I am particularly pleased as a Social Democratic. At first we manage to create a very balanced budget. We have launched this with the tax reform without causing a debt explosion, as the opposition accused us at the time; that has not occurred. Despite the FPÖ hypo-debakel in Carinthia, we have set this up. All in all, we have managed to put a solid budget on our feet, and I can only say one thing to anyone here in the house who turns out and criticizes this budget: Under the internationally not easy conditions, we keep Austria course. Only in the last few days – and this is true, Mr. Federal Minister – have entrepreneurs been asked how they see the future, and there have been answers in which good, positive views into the future have been mentioned. That's right. Of course, we can always stand out here and present some approaches to improvement – we also appreciate that, and that is what we think is positive – but I am of the firm conviction that it is easy for Mr Schellhorn to stand out here, to criticize everything, and to make constant accusations. I define courage differently: Make, implement and do – and I invite you to do so. The fact is, I see that Austria has moved something. We have now set up a number of reforms and we will continue to pursue this success course with the 2017 budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43956	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e43993	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Oh, my God! Yes, Mr Vice-Chancellor, it is true that the record figures in tourism are very encouraging. But you also know what this is primarily due to: the total collapse of tourism in Turkey and Egypt. It is admirable that our businesses do this despite the poor or not optimal conditions of this federal government. Thanks to all the companies there are in Austria! That's really good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, the budget for the economy is not necessarily suitable every year for a major debate here, because if you calculate everything else from your budget, then only €160 million is left for the economy. Granted, good ideas are available – we are still talking about the implementation. The amount has been increased from € 115 million to €160 million, which is all right, but with an economic budget of €160 million, it would actually not need its own economic minister. I have been saying for years now that I think it is a serious mistake of this federal government that we have separated the resorts. The Ministry has for decades called the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. You cannot separate these two areas, I also tell you why: They are the sufferers. If the Minister of Labour in apprenticeship training takes the wrong measures and the firms have to complain of a shortage of skilled workers, you are the sufferer. I therefore hope that if you are once again able to form a government with the Reds, think about it and reunite these resorts as they belong together. – This is just an inspiration from me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Interesting is the following, Mr Vice-Chancellor: In all your broadcasts and also recently in the 2016 mid-term report, one of the main topics – including your spokesperson Peter Haubner – is the need to reduce bureaucracy. You know, one of the biggest handicaps for our businesses is bureaucracy. I now call you a few examples that show that you are doing exactly the opposite of what you have recognized as necessary; You have very good approaches. I come to talk about the trade order afterwards, as the approaches were also good, the design, however, looks quite different at the moment; Unfortunately, Mr Matznetter is not in the house. Let us take a look at what you want to introduce: for example, this increase in the investment premium. This is good from the idea, but just as you want to shape or shape it – we do not know the details yet – namely to distribute the € 175 million of investment premium for two years, which is exactly 10,000 companies in the two years. These are only 0.8 percent of the farms in 600 000 farmers, which – in two years’ time – are in the best interests of this measure at all. And then you also have to question the method of calculation to ensure that the farms benefit from this growth premium – above all, because that means not only bureaucratic effort for the companies but also for your ministry, because someone has to check whether someone benefits from an increase premium due to these calculations. So to talk about red tape and then do something like that – that's exactly the opposite! If you were to return to the investment-free amount at the time, you would save yourself the bureaucracy, not only in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Matznetter raised the question of what the Russian sanctions have to do with the economic budget. Address Mr Matznetter: On the one hand, to drive an internationalization offensive – which I consider to be good – as this federal government does, and on the other hand, to continue to impose sanctions – whose effects we already feel – against Russia, a very important trading partner of Austria, which is quite reprehensible. That's not true! Do not drive an internationalization offensive if you stick to economic sanctions against an important trading partner on the other hand! Now I'm still coming to the trade order. That is where I recall an article by Mr Peter Haubner, President of the ÖVP, in an issue of the “Kurier” of the January of this year with the title “Registrierskasse- und Bürokratiefrust”, in which he points to it. Unfortunately, there is nothing to be noticed about appropriate measures of yours. With all your good intentions you have, you don't break down bureaucracy. Parade example: the recently presented “Verordnungsreform” – under quotation marks – which does not even represent a novel. In the context you require or write For example, with regard to the double payments of traders for the Chamber of Commerce: ‘Assuming double payments: There are also in the WKO. For this purpose, those with multiple memberships are condoned. Entrepreneurs are annoyed about it. ‘We will tackle this’’. That was in January. Mr Peter Haubner, you never write about when You will do this or when you will start it, maybe 2017, 2018 or in the next legislative period, if you are still represented in the government; I can't judge that. But I'll help you now. You can agree to our request in the evening when it comes to the vote. I am now submitting the proposed request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not all bad in this economic package, but there are good approaches in it, I admit, only: The implementation, namely the way in which you plan to do certain things, and the time frame you set for doing so takes a long time for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44113	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44218	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44240	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! The budget debate is taking place in Parliament this week, and now it is about the budget chapter of the economy. Firstly, I would like to refer briefly to my previous speakers, and above all to Mr Themessl, and then to the request he made earlier, and also to what the trade regulation has brought new. As you all know here, I'm a tourist operator. My children are now home to the companies, the daughter and the son-in-law of the hotel. We have six trades to cover the needs of the guest, and due to the trade regulations new, which has now been decided, because of liberalisation, we only need a trade instead of the six trades, because the main business of hotel industry covers everything else, whether the massage, cosmetics or the hotel taxi. One can make up to 15 percent of turnover in these by-products, i.e. one only needs one business ticket and no more six business certificates. This has brought new business regulations, and if this is not a relief for businesses, I no longer know, I have to say quite honestly what we are talking about here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because today of Courage has been spoken: Do you know what the courage is? – For example: Show here what's not right! But courage is also part of this – I am especially addressing the opposition parties – to say here what has been done well. – This is good policy, and we should actually stand for it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Themessl: I did! Listen!]] It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers, but also by our Federal Minister Mitterlehner, many figures and facts. And what tourism operators write and criticize in their books is partly true. But if Mr Schellhorn goes out of here and only evaluates everything negatively, I have to say that it is a certain part of what he says right, but if you ask him: What would you really want to do if you came to the world again?, then he would say – just like the bookwriters – that: I'd be host again! I'm also a host and a hoteler, and I'm telling you one thing: I would also, if I returned to the world, choose the profession of the tourist operator again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The budget we are dealing with here today is – you can say that calmly – fine. The situation in tourism is stable, around 16 percent of GDP comes from tourism and leisure industry. It is not invested in tourism for as long as it has been. Especially as a Carinthian, it makes me proud to hear that in the last few years alone in tourism, the triple of what has been invested in the tourism sector in recent years has gone into investment. I believe that this should also be said: that courage has now returned to the tourism sector and that this is a future-stable and good sector. Without mentioning figures here, I would like to say, Minister of State: The financial resources needed to cover the loan grants are available so that young entrepreneurs can return to running and thus the liability guarantees continue to exist. You have also promised to do so, Mr Federal Minister, in the Committee on Budgets. Of the €250 million in liabilities, €200 million have now been spent, and if these €250 million should be covered, one will see that the liabilities are extended to €500 million. - That's what the budget looks like. The issue of bureaucracy is on the agenda at one of the next meetings. In the area of bureaucracy, of course, we have to do something, because in this bureaucracy that has been built up over the last 20 years, in the belief that we can only protect everyone and do something good, we must all look – across all parties, and I ask for a fair discussion – where we can unravel certain things, such as things that are no longer relevant, – the times have changed; one can work when one wants to work, this applies to workers as well as to employers. This will be a challenge for politics, but we will also do so. I believe that despite the difficult world situation, we can really look positively to the future in Austria. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44297	Next speaker: Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44321	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciated spectators at the audience gallery and in front of the televisions! Less valued bureaucrats! Sometimes it is very glaring to take up the budget proposal from two years ago, because it is in the sub-heading under the economic chapter that the objective is to strengthen the competitiveness of Austrian companies, namely SMEs and tourism companies, and to promote entrepreneurship. If you look at this year's budget estimate, you can see that there is no support for entrepreneurship in the target form. And I ask you, Minister Mitterlehner: Who did that? Was that the coalition partner? Was that you? Was that any bureaucrats? Or don't you just want to promote that? That could be your argument, of course. In any case, the promotion of entrepreneurship has simply disappeared from the budget, wherever. In fact, I think you should set this as a goal, or from a green point of view, because the founding figures – if you look at them, then you will find that – lie behind the self-esteemed goals. There were about 1,000 foundations last year less than the target set in the budget. Of course, you can set high goals and not achieve them, but you do not mind, but you are here and pretend to have achieved the goals set. The fact is: We have about 1 000 set-ups per year behind the self-esteemed targets in the budget. Much has been announced by the Federal Government a few months ago, the start-up promotion, as you can remember, namely the additional wage support for innovative, technology-oriented start-ups. If you get to know each other in the budget, you can see that 500 000 € are inside, that is half a million. And if demand is more precise, it is noted that this is only the cost of the bureaucracy of the preparation in 2017, i.e. the costs for the employees who will examine the applications. At the earliest possible time 2018 – as long as the government is still holding – this announced start-up funding will be paid out, so in 2017 the money will be spent for bureaucracy and auditing. The subject of trade regulations has already been mentioned. To a large extent, I find the partially regulated trade to be positive, but – and I have already said it to Mr Matznetter – it concerns only about 1 percent of all business license holders. 99 percent of trade remains the same, 1 percent of which is reformed. I mean, one has to leave the church in the village, when one speaks of a reform in the trade order, and realistically appreciate that. If I take the comparison figures from Germany and break them down to what was possible, then you can talk about some 8,000 to 10,000 potential jobs – that is my personal assessment. That would be – and this is important, beautiful and good – about every 50. In Austria, the unemployed are able to find a job through a good reform of the trade regulations. But it's just about every 50. The overall problem is far from being solved. A topic was also already the thermal rehabilitation. From our point of view, in this area, the economic resort is too much to withdraw. The halving of the 2015 funds will continue. From our point of view, it is very important to invest in thermal rehabilitation, particularly in the context of employment. I would also like to mention the electromobility: Yes, it is good and nice that from next year every 20. Motor vehicles, i.e. every 20 years. New registration may be promoted; the funds are limited accordingly. Well-marked: ==References== New registration, let alone You're gonna break this on your tongue! That's nice and good, a small beginning, but hold relatively little. And there is already the question of why, at the same time, certain tax privileges can still be maintained. If you buy coal in Austria today, you have to pay a coal tax. If you make electricity from coal, you'll get the coal tax back. This corresponds almost exactly to the electromobility promotion. So this tax privilege for coal streaming is about what is now poured out for electric mobility with the casting can. You could probably solve that differently. As far as diesel privilege is concerned, the price difference between petrol and diesel, which one should repeatedly address, I do not want to go into detail now. Because it was noted that the government was only criticised by the opposition, I would also like to mention something positive: I like the problem analysis in Mr Mahrer's Founder Country Programme, which is a good problem analysis. The implementation, however, looks a little different. The announcement of a reform at the Red and White Red Card, the assurance that something will happen in the future, is also positive among the Greens. And the fact that the AWS funding programme has increased the number of EPUs, by 19 percent more, is quite positive. In the creative economy, however, we find the lottery procedure a bit strange in the distribution of funding. One can participate in a lottery and has little legal certainty to get the promotion. This practice is urgently questionable. I would also like to speak on the following point, because we spoke briefly about renewable energy: EXPO will take place next year in Astana, the capital city of Kazakhstan, with a budget of €2.2 million. At this point, however, I would like to remind you that the issue of human rights and democracy is also properly appreciated and is not just going there from purely economic considerations. I was myself for the OSCE election observer, and if you can experience live that for example – and I really say that for the protocol – two thirds of this election was manipulated and that was probably made so efficient that you could have saved yourself from counting, then you have to say: We must always be aware of this if we are to cooperate economically with such regimes! It says: We do not want to criticise, but we very much want the government to take advantage of and implement the opportunities that are constantly passing on to us. And that is exactly where we see a problem, namely the inactivity, the stagnation, the opportunities left behind, because, as we see it, the existing possibilities are not taken up. We of the Greens want to see employment more connected with people in the future. This means employment in the area of childcare, old-age care or education, not filling out employment in the form of forms and red tape, which constantly also provide employment. – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44385	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44408	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In a digitalised world, work is changing, existing jobs are disappearing, but new jobs will not automatically be created. We have to create new jobs ourselves, but I think it has also been noticed by the unobtrusive observer that in the Austrian founding scene, there is a lot that is going on in the area of the start-up scene. Last year, I had the opportunity to have a lot of conversations with different stakeholders from the start-up scene and to listen to their concerns about what their problems are. Whether this is the very well-known and successful start-up founders of Runtastic, Shpock, N26 or Playbrush or those of other companies, namely those who may not have been so successful and perhaps had to start again, they all told me: Austria is a wonderful, life-worthy country, we have been happy to establish here, even if there have been problems, the education system is a good one! But they all told me: The education system needs to be improved towards entrepreneurship, towards programming, towards being able to speak more and better English! And they also said that we need to improve the framework conditions for business reasons, for start-up start-ups, but also for other start-ups. With the start-up package presented before the summer, we have done the following: We have integrated the stakeholders from the scene and asked them – that is to say, talked to them, discussed and negotiated – which political framework conditions are necessary in their eyes to improve start-up foundations. Why did we focus on start-ups like this? Why have we defined it in such a way that it is intended to be high-tech companies, digitalised and technology-based companies? – Because these companies have very fast and strong growth among employees. To take just one example: Shpock, the online Flohmarkt app, is now four years old, has over 100 employees who all live and work here in Vienna, Austria. What's in the start-up package? – We have heard it a few times today: the reduction in additional wage costs in the first three years, the strengthening of Seed financing, the promotion of academic spin-offs, the 24-hour quick check on promotions, patent checks, MiFiG New, new risk capital premium, one-stop shops for founders. And access to the red and white red card is facilitated and further opened to have more technicians and programmers in the country. On the one hand, we are very proud of this package, on the other hand, that it has succeeded so well, we have also received a good feedback, but for the future there is of course a lot to say. There is also a medium-term and longer-term list, I just say a few words: a modern insolvency law – the culture of failure has not yet arrived in Austria as perhaps in other countries, namely that you can learn from mistakes and still try it again. It should also be mentioned: Shattering the trade order – yes, I also believe that there has been something happening, but it can and should get even better. In the field of the shortage of skilled workers and the training of technicians, Some things have been done, but there is a need for more initiative. Venture Capital is also on the list, and Basel III cannot solve Austria alone either. There will certainly be no second Silicon Valley in Austria now, but what we can make sure is a start-up campus in Vienna to support this scene even better. What do I mean by start-up campus? – On the one hand, young start-ups should have the opportunity to hire there, but on the other hand also have the opportunity to work with large, successful companies. There, there should be educational facilities, leisure facilities, housing facilities and childcare facilities, so everything you can find in a crossword, but specifically focused on start-ups.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44460	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44481	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Let's just start, let's start with the economic principle or the rational principle: Between the use of resources and income, an optimal ratio is to be achieved, in the maximum version, which means that, when the means are used, the minimum income is to be as high as possible, and it would be the minimum for taxpayers to apply this principle to the budget as well. The government knows this principle of course, but for other reasons, for example for clienttelological or power logic reasons, sometimes has not fulfilled this principle. The explanation is as follows: The government announces well, but often falls back to the old logic – for that I now bring you two examples. We still have a deficit logic. In its September forecast for 2016, the Wifo expects a deficit of 1.6 percent to go to Maastricht. One should think that the tax revenue is relatively constant, purely economic Effects are calculated from the Maastricht calculation, but this is not the case. For 2017, corporate tax revenues will rise by €1.2 billion. Just to remind us: The corporate tax is a tax which applies to legal persons, from the revenues these legal persons pay salaries, incurred investments. In our view, it is essential to consider how high this tax is to be, and we conclude that this tax rate is actually lowered precisely in the light of the huge corporate tax increases currently planned. Instead, the government announces – I explain to you why – to introduce an investment increase premium. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian]] This has not been planned and would have made up only 0.1 percent of gross investment anyway. On the other hand, it would be better to introduce investment-free amounts or a reduction in corporate tax on profits not collected, in order to make it possible for investments to be made earlier and more people to be employed. That's certainly in your interest, too. The government's approach is always based on the principle of turning companies into bitters. One takes away something from the company first and then causes it to make applications to recover this money. This is exactly the same with the additional wage reduction provided for in the start-up package of € 185 million. Most of this funding, which is €100 million, is planned for the reimbursement of these additional wage costs. The administrative burden alone – Matthias Köchl did it before – amounts to half a million euros. It is interesting – we also asked – whether there would have been an alternative to whether this administrative burden could not have been reduced simply by an additional wage reduction. However, this consideration was not made by the government. If you look at the situation on the labour market – the highest unemployment rate since the Second Republic or the highest unemployment rates – and if you want the state to continue to receive equal amounts of income through pay, it would be wiser to relieve not only the start-up package, but founders generally in the first three years to make the location more attractive to create more employment. In the medium to long term, you will of course also get a lot of income out of the wages. Therefore, we do not even necessarily have to agree on the sensibleness of additional wage costs – this is another discussion that we are also conducting – but rather a relief for business start-ups makes sense in any case and is also realized in practice. I do not want to commend the government in view of this start-up package, especially as it actually contains two measures which we consider particularly important, namely the risk capital premium and the additional wage reduction. But with my colleague Sepp Schellhorn, I have to make a little grumpy, who has proposed a bureaucracy angel: To express such a thing is dangerous, because it might bring some people to the idea of actually introducing such a thing – and we really don't want to! We have now heard what Mr Matznetter – he is not present – and Mr Lettenbichler has told us about the start-up package, and I must say that this also gives the impression that the honest attempt is being made to do something, that one is not necessarily aware of the extent that would be necessary, because it really is only drops on the hot stone, which is achieved with it; really much cannot move with it. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! 30 000 business start-ups: That sounds good, of course, means more revenue for the Chamber of Commerce, but these figures, of course, also include the many EPCs, including, of course, the EPCs, which are pushed a lot into independence. Now a little more to the Chamber of Commerce: You may have heard that the Chamber of Commerce is now advertising a new slogan. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: What's his name?]] – It’s a cover version, but unlike a possibly funny Beatles cover version, Donald Trump is covered. It means: ‘Make Austria Great Again’. – So it is really extremely insensitive to turn a slogan of Trump into apparently ironic ways and thus advertise for the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Jarolim: I think irony wasn't wanted here!]] I can only say in the direction of Christoph Leitel: Let it be! Do you really want a piece of real irony? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS and with representatives of the Greens.]] – So ironically, the hundred, now imposed on pensioners, costs about €180 million, and this corresponds to about € 185 million of the start-up package. It can only be hoped that the grandmothers and grandparents will give these hundreds of children to their grandchildren, so that they will become entrepreneurial. Then we are back at Family, Friends and Fools and Bootstrapping, because this is still necessary in Austria to bring start-ups up. Unfortunately, the start-up package mentioned earlier is still too low in the dose to create the necessary agglomeration to really move something to plant this start-up hub in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44561	Next speaker: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44583	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is gratifying that in 2017, more funds are available for operational apprenticeship promotion. Dual training is a success model of our economy. However, the challenges for our businesses are also increasing, and that is to say, it is increasingly difficult for us entrepreneurs to find apprentices who also have the appropriate education standards, or to motivate young people to teach at all. That is why, I believe, these funds are very good for apprentice coaching, for promoting young people who are weak in learning, but also for complementary integration measures, because at the moment it is really the case that many of the things that are actually one of the tasks of parents or school have to be done by entrepreneurs. Our enterprises, whether large businesses or SMEs, are doing great things in apprenticeship training, the permeability of the education system has also developed further, and now, I believe, it still needs to be upgraded in the sense that it is seen as a school education and that this is also recorded in the National Qualifications Framework. I believe that this is an important step in ensuring that our training abroad is given the same attention and attention as abroad. Much has already been said about the go-international initiative. – Yes, in fact, this is focused economic support through efficient use of resources; this has also been confirmed by the Wifo. It is a successful cooperation between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, because 1 € export promotion brings 55 € property exports, brings 60 € more value added and brings 15 € additional tax revenue. We had an export increase in 2015, we also had a positive trade balance with third countries and a current account surplus. This shows that the domestic economy is competitive. It also shows, however, that the Federal Ministry's funding strategies, namely the monitoring of new exporters, the monitoring of exporters on new markets, but also of service companies and investors, are correct. It will also be difficult to increase our exports in the future, and only non-realists believe that we can maintain our social systems without additional exports. That is why I am particularly pleased that Mr Steinbichler has today recognized that large businesses do not need the trade agreements. Yeah, that's right, the STIWA Group doesn't need it, the company Lenzing doesn't need it! We have been trying for two years to explain that the trade agreements are primarily intended for SMEs, and we have always done so with examples – and today, Mr Steinbichler has understood, this is very encouraging. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, I am glad that you were so courageous and that you have kept cool in the trade agreements and pursued an objective, clear and transparent line. Unfortunately, I missed this line at the opposition – apart from the NEOS – as well as at our coalition partner.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44631	Next speaker: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44652	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Economic Affairs. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Obernosterer said that as an opposition politician we could say something positive, which is why I would like to start with something positive. I welcome, on behalf of Hermann Brückl, the representatives of the initiative of Free Women in the district of Schärding quite cordially here in the National Council and also a delegation of the liberals from my home district of Spittal on the Drau. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] But now to the budget, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The Minister for Finance is not here today, but I would like to say that perhaps it could be summarized in this way: The major announcements made by the Minister of Finance have arrived in the reality of the black-red downtime policy. That's all you need to say about the budget. When I look at your budget for the business sector and read into it – now I take out effect Objective 1: “Strengthening the competitiveness of the Austrian economy with a focus on SMEs” – small and medium-sized enterprises – “and tourism companies”, I really cannot take this seriously. I will now cite two very nice examples; one is written in a daily newspaper today, and we have often discussed it last year, namely the spa associations and how you are damaging our hosts. Today there is another headline: “Now hundreds of savings clubs are shut down.” You damage the economy, you damage the SMEs, you damage the tourism companies. Sparvereins-Obfrau Heidi Raubal asks why all this is done by the ÖVP-led Ministry of Finance. – Mrs Raubal, I can give you an answer if you listen: It only seems as if the gentlemen were sitting behind me on the government bank – they were floating, they lost the liability to the ground, they lost the liability to the ground of reality, they took off! [[Congratulations with FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] But now I also say something positive to you to return to Mr Obernosterer's statement: We only need to endure this for a few months, because then you have the opportunity to make the cross in the appropriate place so that these gentlemen then float out of this room. ==References== December you already have the first opportunity to give a little Wink there. I cannot spare you the second example, Mr Vice-Chancellor. They were visiting about two months ago at the opening of a power plant in my home community, and I asked you – unfortunately not received an answer to this day – that you accept the theme of Reißeckbahn, a tourist complex of the association. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] You said you'd look at it. I wrote you a letter a month ago and asked you for an appointment, but you didn't give me an appointment to this day. I do not consider myself so important, Mr Vice-Chancellor, as mayor, I represent the citizens of my community, but you as Vice chancellor should represent the interests of the Austrian population and, as Minister of Economic Affairs, above all those of the economy. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: It has already been said everything on the subject!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nothing else would I wish for. There at the top of the gallery is one of the hosts affected, Mr. Walter Huber, who runs a hut operation and who is affected by the termination of this train. In the year 200 million € in profit, this railway costs perhaps 300 000 € in the year, but now the association – they are the owner’s representative – wants to say goodbye to this tourist complex, although it is also one of its goals to promote tourism within the association. This is a barbery, this is a blow against a region that already has to fight with emigration, which already has one of the highest unemployment rates in Austria. [[He-Rufe at SPÖ and ÖVP]] This district harms you and thus contradicts your own goals as an entrepreneur, as the owner within the association, namely that you maintain the operation of this tourist complex. Mr Minister, I can only ask you once again, perhaps you will look at the matter again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44725	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44746	Mr Angerer, who makes the cross at the next election, that is certainly not the content of the budget and that certainly does not have you to decide! Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! The rise of Austrian tourism has always been closely linked to alpineism, and still today the natural experience of our mountains is one of the top arguments for making holidays with us: Near nature, the land of the mountains. In this context, the Alpine infrastructure plays an outstanding role, namely through the alpine road networks and the managed huts. That is why I am particularly pleased that we will also be able to make money available for the maintenance of these routes and huts for the coming year, for the 2017 budget, even though, as a tourist speaker, I am of course pleased that we are working out a budget plan for the future, which also brings about medium and long-term security and stability in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are among the countries with the highest tourist revenues per capita, but that is nothing we can rest on, but something we must continue to work on, because we are mainly in a tough global travel competition, and one of our USPs, our Unique Selling Propositions, are the mountains including the roads and – last but not least – just the managed huts. Our huts are unique in their form, there is hardly any other country to this extent. These huts not only guarantee protection for the hikers, they are also a sign for our convenience and socialism. They are a symbol of Austria. Summary: These 3.6 million € are well invested money and secure a broad value added. We do well if we continue to support these tourism companies – for us and our guests. If someone asks me how it is with tourism in Austria, then I say what I always say: that the tourism companies are very much at my heart and are very expensive to me, because they ensure jobs above all and guarantee value creation also off the cities. In tourism – you must never forget that! – more than 90 000 companies employ more than 270 000 people. More than 500 000 people are employed in tourism at least one day a year. The share of GDP was 13.4 percent in 2014, 13.5 in 2015 and 13.4 percent in 2016. This also confirms the National Bank. In 2015, total income from holiday guests, day guests, seminar guests over €38.4 billion for Austria, and 2016 is expected to be an equally excellent year. We do well to work on adding further success chapters to this success story. I am particularly pleased that in this sense we are investing in our future, above all in education and teaching. One thing you must not forget: The accommodation and restaurant facilities in Austria are currently 9 075, almost 10,000 apprentices for tourism. However, the tourism industry must also work to bring forward convincing concepts to ensure that these tourism professionals remain in this sector as well. In the last two and a half days, we have heard a lot of arguments about why it is bad to work in tourism. We have heard reasons why it does not pay off, reasons for the skilled to migrate. I believe that one of our objectives must be that the employer is called tourism in the future as a positive example of training, secure jobs and future opportunities for young people, and not as a negative example. Finally, I would like to stress that the 2017 budget is a very, very good one, especially because we are actively investing in labour market policy, driving the economy and promoting tourism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44811	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44832	Mr President. Mr Energieminister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I am also referring to the economic budget because the energy agendas are also being managed there; well hidden in the economic budget, but still in it. I would like to raise three points. First – I already pointed out yesterday –: We have a climate agreement, the dynamics of climate protection is huge internationally, and the energy transition will be the market of the future. If we want to be good at this, this must also be reflected in the economic budget. The only thing I see there, however, is the part around the rehabilitation offensive, the thermal renovation, and there has been massively shortened last year. Most of the funds that are already coming in there come from the Ministry of the Environment; from the economic budget only € 13 million come. We have lost 5,000 jobs in the last year alone, and since 2013, we have even lost 7,700 jobs. We see: Saving environmental protection, saving climate protection causes a damage to the economy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need more investment in this direction. I told you yesterday about the climate conference, where the post is going. Many companies are present, present themselves, and I wish that more Austrian companies could also present themselves there and establish contacts in order to take advantage of these great opportunities for Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: We need structural changes not only in the budget, but also in the tax system. We Greens have repeatedly proposed our model of eco-social tax reform, and my colleague Bruno Rossmann will submit our proposal to that effect later. However, we repeatedly hear announcements from Environment Minister Rupprechter in this direction, and that is why I am also bringing in what is proposed by the Minister for the Environment. If you cannot agree to our proposal, perhaps you will support your Minister. It would also be important for us to know whether these are announcements or what we really believe or cannot believe in these announcements. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My third point also concerns framework conditions for companies. The Federal Government still has the opportunity to present this House with a proposal for the novel of the Eco electricity Act. I hope you all know the situation. In the energy market it is really critical because of very low electricity prices: Biogas plants lock up, windwheels can't be built, companies write to me, they have to release people if not soon anything happens. Today is the last day that the Federal Government can use so that we can make a decision this year, next plenary session, in order to give these companies the necessary framework conditions so that they can continue to work and drive the development of green electricity in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to say quite clearly: I appeal not only to you, Mr Energy Minister, but also to your coalition partner, to the SPÖ. I have the impression that this is a back and forth: What interests can I pack in? What can I get out for my clientele? – I honestly tell you, I’m tired of it; many people are tired of it. No one understands that there has been no solution for this situation for a year and a half. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For one and a half years now, we have been telling you that this will happen to us, and we have been telling you that we Greens are ready to negotiate here in the House because you need our votes for a two-thirds majority. I would like to have a template at last, and this applies to you and to you alike. [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] Nobody understands that at all. We have a few hours left today, and that is why my great appeal to you, to us here, but above all to the concerned plant operators, the workers concerned, is not to be disappointed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Moser: Don't let it down!]] In conclusion: The economic budget also shows that Austria urgently needs an independent, strong, committed and well equipped environmental, energy and climate ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e44952	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Brunner is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45034	Now Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Mitterlehner is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45056	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On Members of Parliament Brunner and the Ökostromgesetz: Yes, it is necessary to make a corresponding innovation here. However, I must say that the impression to be raised here is that it is about a fall period and from 1st century onwards. January 2017 would be over, wrong is. It's not about everyone else being ruined when there's no novels. Most have existing contracts but want to have an extension of the terms. Fortunately, there are a very small number of companies in which the contracts actually expired in 2016, my knowledge is that there are 14 companies. [[Abg. Brunner: Yes, but queues...!]] Therefore: All others also need legal certainty. However, the accusation – so that we can be clear about it – does not go to the state, but it is a development that we have not been able to foresee in part. There and there, of course, someone has already entered into the Treaties in the hope that the State and whoever will remain will remain nothing but to extend it again. It is also about the interests of taxpayers and consumers who have to contribute and finance it. That's why: Yeah, we're negotiating the subject. We are optimistic about this. We owe it to those who also depend on existence. But to do this in a sort of hit – who is to blame for it? - It's not right. I would like to reject the debt from the state. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second point: Mr Angerer, you have nothing to do with the economic budget. For me, it is absolutely impossible to understand what point of approach this should be. - That's your thing. The next item is much more intense to discuss, because I do not think it belongs to this, namely the question of the trackway. I am the owner of what is going to happen, but you may know the stock law – maybe not, then look at it! – which means that I am not operationally entitled to conduct the business or to give instructions as regards the operation and certain investments. The responsibility for this lies with the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. They also know where the competences lie. But I'm informed about the matter, and that means in concrete terms: In the course of the construction work at the Reißeckbahn, the link has built a cable car which, after there is also a road, it no longer needs for maintenance work. The question of what is necessary to use the tourism is linked to the need for further investment and second maintenance measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rauch.]] These are not for the business purpose and the task of the association. Therefore, the association has offered the communities concerned to take on what they – and there are talks and negotiations – did not want to do so until now, because this is also associated with costs. This is a business balance, which is in progress, but not a matter in which you can blame the bond or someone else. Unravel this view and avoid giving the impression that it would be my business to decide anything tourist in Carinthia with yes or no. That is the matter of the union, and there it belongs.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45134	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45155	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Economic Affairs! Actually, the debate on the economic chapter was quite good and differentiated except for the last two speeches – those of colleague Angerer and those of colleague Brunner. There was, in fact, hardly a speaker and hardly a speaker who, or the speaker here, did not stress at least some positive in the measures contained in the budget proposal. [[Abg. Höbart: We'll change that right now!]] Unfortunately, it has then become a little destructive, but there is nothing you can do. In fact, it is the case that a large number of measures are planned which, I think, are of great importance to the Austrian economy and to the location, such as the whole area of wage reduction. This is a subject that has accompanied us for many years and we as the People's Party have always said that we have to do something about it. There must be a signal to the economy that the loads are not always uphill, but that at some point we will be able to push back and fall at wage costs, because they are also enormously high in international comparison. Therefore, it is important to set a signal. Of course, these are still amounts about which one or the other says it could be more. Yes, of course it can be more, but we have now taken this new direction. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, I would also like to stress that we are looking for 0.1 percentage points in the insolvency payment fund, 0.4 percentage points in the FLAF and 0.2 percentage points in 2018. This is a total additional wage reduction of € 1 billion, ladies and gentlemen. That's not nothing, I'd like to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, there are a number of other measures provided for in this budget, for example, that the craftsman bonus will continue in a range of €20 million, that with €185 million there will be a special support – Mr. Hakel presented this very comprehensively – for the start-ups, of which only €30 million in 2017. I also find this risk capital premium, which aims to promote private investors' participation in start-ups, a total of € 45 million, of which 15 million in 2017. So, as a whole, this is, I believe, a very decent, very good economic package which the Minister of Economic Affairs has presented to us for decision-making. I think that the export-oriented orientation of economic policy is important and of particular importance to us as an export-oriented country. I hope that in the future, when it comes to free trade agreements, we will have a little more intrusive debates and not talk of devils when these rules are being debated, but that they will simply be taken as what they are, namely, rules for the game of international trade.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45198	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45219	Mr President. High house! Perhaps a small replica to Mr Vice-Chancellor, who replied to our colleague Erwin Angerer: It is exciting to note that Mr. Vice-Chancellor, his sign also Minister of Economic Affairs, in this causa, in which it is very important things, namely to revive tourism in Carinthia, does not enter for months, and then he stands up here and, so to speak, pours out an answer from the sleeve in a few minutes. We find that very exciting. [[Abg. Rädler: You like it anyway exciting!]] This could certainly be done more professionally in the future, especially since our colleague, Angerer, even asked for a joint appointment with the Joint Board and you. That's what you've got to do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The economic budget 2017 is not a devil's work, referring to Mr Amon's statements; for God's sake, in such words, of course, we do not want to operate here. [[Abg. Amon: Have you!]] But there is one point to be said: The big throw has not become it again. [[Abg. Tamandl: Always bad talk about everything, but don't make any arguments about how to do it better!]] I am telling you now and will now tell you why it would have been important to produce a large litter: because our Republic, because Austria is only medium in international comparison. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] It cannot, however, be our claim in this Republic as to Austria's economic location to be regarded as a medium-sized one. Here are some facts: Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, there is, as you know, a study by the IMD, a University of Lausanne. According to Austria, although it has improved, from 26th to 24th place, it is miles away... [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Take the World Economic Forum!]] – Mr Mitterlehner, don’t be so nervous! I don't know what you've planned for next year, maybe you're going – because today's already in the room – towards the European Union, following your colleague Spindelegger. I don't know. Please do not be so nervous, these are the facts that I am now presenting to you, because you have spoken of facts before. [[Abg. Haubner: So far we haven't heard anything! So far, you haven't mentioned any facts!]] The fact is, we're only mediocre. What is to blame for Austria having such major problems? – On the one hand, this is the fiscal policy, where Austria from 61 countries is the most recent – in the first place! [[Abg. Kogler: Where?]] [[Abg. Haubner: That's like football!]] Solution: The tax burden must be significantly reduced. This has been a high goal for many years. Secondly, Public finances are out of line. We have received an extremely bad rating, namely, only place 40 out of 61 states. [[Abg. Rädler: Where did you get all this?]] How can you change that? – By introducing an expenditure brake, namely an actual expenditure brake, on the basis of which reserves are formed in economic good phases. International investors are shy of the economic location Austria is becoming more and more, this study also says. I could still do that, but I want to come to the end now. [[Abg. Wheeler: That's it!]] It would be important for us in economic policy – and I do not even want to have the Group of the Party of European Socialists – to make a big throw, take more money, promote business, force new founding programmes, as Mr Hakel of the SPÖ also mentioned, to finance financing with the help of equity capital or mezzanine capital, and so on. [[Abg. Jank: That's all in there!]] There would be so many points with which we could get Austria as an economic location from the lower average again below the first ten. And that must be our goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45420	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45441	Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a great throw, namely in the time of blue government participation, the 13th. Sales tax. That was a big throw, and the farms still know that. The 13th. Sales tax during the blue government period was a big throw and a model. [[Abg. Neubauer: Look into the future, that would be important!]] Therefore, be very careful with your criticism, which is partly not at all true. You should have the ear at the farms. [[Abg. New builder: That's what you have, socialists?]] What do they want? – The companies want a strong domestic purchasing power, the companies want to be able to invest in time, the companies want motivated employees and, you should also know, the companies need equal opportunities of competition among all sizes. [[Call to the FPÖ: You haven't been in operation for a long time, Mr. Kirchgatterer!]] [[Abg. New builder: machine tax, value added tax, load, load, load! That's what you're standing for!]] On domestic purchasing power, I can tell you that the tax reform – your chairman was not aware of the individual tax groups that are new and that bring improvements – has worked very well. That's what the numbers show black on white. Sales tax development clearly shows this. We are very, very positive about this from our European neighbouring countries. Proper investment is very important for SMEs and communities. For 24 months there will be investment promotion, and this investment promotion will also strengthen competitiveness in our country and increase employment. On the subject of professional growth: Strengthening the teaching and the engineering law – you know, we decided here a few weeks ago – are also correct steps. Today, the new Standards Act has also become valid. The Standards Act brings great benefits to the large sector of crafts, which is very labour-intensive. Business areas, which have so far only been able to carry out the giants, are again open to small and medium-sized enterprises, because the flood of standards is restricted, and fewer standards mean a cost reduction – in residential construction by up to 15 percent. Digitalisation has been mentioned: The promotion that exists can be viewed and considered on the homepage. All interested parties should also take this to heart. I come to the end and go to the budget hearing: It is unfortunate that the budget hearing was negated by the NEOS. For the first time, they did not provide an expert, no expert. That's not a good sign. [[Abg. Moser: This is a clear signal!]] [[Abg. Scherak: This is a very good sign!]] – This is a bad sign because you should participate in the discussion. The budget testifies to budgetary discipline, but also to future investment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45541	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45563	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners, especially in front of TV screens! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are constantly calling for fairness in the discussion, as Mr Obernosterer always does. Let's really look at this. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you have talked about the fact that tourism writes record numbers. I say: Thank God we write record numbers and thank God the tourism industry is the backbone, especially in rural areas. Let's be glad about it! What does reality look like in this area? – It must not be forgotten that international markets have just broken out this summer. It has already been mentioned: Egypt, Turkey, the North African region were destinations that simply fell away because of the danger situation. Of course, the additional guests and extra nights have brought us, but you can't find today and here that the tourism industry is doing well and that the tourism industry in particular is doing well with the government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'd say it like this: Despite attractive hand brakes, the tourism industry has managed to drive full-gas. The attracted hand brakes were the many, many loads that the tourism industry had to hide, and yet they – and for them a great thank you – have written record numbers, secure jobs, ensure in rural areas that migration does not take place so strongly. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you also spoke of an important internationalization and accused us of being against CETA. We are, of course, for world trade, but we are for fair global trade. It cannot be said that CETA will be negotiated in secret for seven years, that it will not be informed about the population, about the Parliaments. [[Abg. Haubner: Have you read it too?]] Above all, we are also against arbitration – no one needs it. We have a functioning legal system, so that is not necessary. That and many other reasons are responsible for our rejection of this agreement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why trade with Canada will not collapse – don't do that! We saw yesterday and yesterday that there was a lot going on in the course of the budget negotiations. That's it! It is good and right that pensioners get the hundreds more because the increase of 0.8 percent was much too modest. - That's right, that's what we've carried. It is also good that farmers have to pay a quarterly social security contribution less because the milk price has fallen dramatically. - That's right. Nevertheless, many, especially the medium-sized enterprises, rightly do not agree with this because they fall through the rust. I'm already excited about what's going on. But why is nothing going on in the tourism industry? Why don't we relieve the tourism industry? – Above all, Austria’s advertising keyword: Why are we unable to increase Austria's advertising budget? We write a anniversary: 20 years of constant budget in this area! I have here the Federal Finance Act of 1996. [[Keeping a copy of it in height]] At that time, already in 1996, Austria has received advertising of 350 million schillings, which is 25.4 million € – more than today with 24 commas some million € for Austria's advertising. That means that the budget for this has actually been expected to be half. And we should be able to process national and international markets? How does that work? That is why we make the following request from the Freedom Party: [[Quoted print version removed]] The tourism industry and all of us expect that the tourism industry and Austria's advertising will finally also receive the necessary budget in order to continue to succeed in international markets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45640	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hauser is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45727	Mr Scherak spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please begin with the facts to be corrected!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45751	Of course! Mr Kirchgatterer has previously claimed that we have for the first time renounced NEOS for an expert in budget hearing. - That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: We have for the second time very consciously renounced an expert in budget hearing.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45787	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45809	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies in the High House! Dear gentlemen! The economic debate is a debate in which we can be optimistic because we know that our economic growth is gaining strength. Economic growth is gaining strength, and the food industry as an essential part of European value added, including Austrian value added, has shown in recent years that much is going and much is possible. The food industry is export-strong and brings many impulses. Unfortunately, I have to report that agriculture itself is missing as a growth driver because we are in a difficult situation – we have already discussed it many times – but there are also initiatives in progress. But one thing is certain: The hope for agriculture is alive because we have export-intensive farms. Our food industry employs 26 000 people – 26 000 people who live to process Austrian agricultural products of the highest quality and make them exportable products, but also serve the domestic market. You need to know that two thirds of the production of our food industry is exported. 26 000 jobs: Two thirds of these employees live on the fact that these products have been requested abroad. We have also managed through a special location policy that in Austria ethanol production, protein production, starch production – the highest quality products that have been sought in the international food industry. These products have given us the opportunity to pursue a finishing policy even in the case of cereals. We export cereals and import cereals. We export at good prices – a third more expensive than we import because we export organic cereals and quality cereals, but we import processing cereals for protein production. We thus secure jobs and value added. We have thus generated an export volume of €5.6 billion in the food industry. This is a common performance of the whole sector, where training, where professional skills, where science play together and we are always at the forefront. Innovation is the topic. Finding the customer is the subject. But – and this is the nice thing – the name of Austria is transported with it, because Austrian products also bring appreciation for Austria abroad. This benefits Austria as a whole, the tourism industry as well as anyone else who can place a product under the Austrian name. We are very glad that we hold our name up together. And it is also very important for us to look at the Austrians themselves, where the products come from, and therefore also to ensure that the food identification becomes visible in Austria. Check where the product comes from! We want you to know what you have on the plate. It's good to know what you have. That's why we place so much importance on the red and white-red magnify. Look what's going on! Be proud of it! Enjoy it! We're part of the whole thing, and the whole thing is moving in a good direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45851	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45872	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Subdivisions 33, Economy and Research, and 40, Economy: Economics is the basis for jobs. We urgently need new jobs. The start-up aid for young entrepreneurs is also an important factor, and estimated at €32.2 million for 2017. This is a positive budget approach. A big brake block, however, are the high wage side costs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, we need growth, but sanctions against Russia certainly do not help. We need impulses for businesses, impulses for the economy, impulses, incentives – and away with the many unnecessary regulations and regulations! The bureaucracy is a matter of urgency. What we urgently need is a novel, Mr Minister, as far as the trade regulations are concerned, so that the many small, hard-working businesses can breathe again and not be suppressed by loud regulations and regulations. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I've already said it here: It was like this: If a carpenter, a carpenter, had ten employees, then one was in the office and nine was in the workshop. Now it's the other way round: that's just nine in the office and one in the workshop. That's a bad development. I think Austria's economic location needs to be further expanded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45903	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45926	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The economic budget has already been illuminated from many perspectives. I would like to do this from a further point of view, namely from the subject of living. Housing and housing renovation are essential factors for a functioning housing policy. On the one hand, new housing is created, and on the other hand, we invest in a better quality of living with all its facets. First, I can contact the craftsman bonus, which is again paid €20 million. With this craftsman bonus, private individuals receive up to €600 for the renovation, maintenance or modernisation of their home in relation to the benefits of a craftsman. Secondly, I am allowed to address the thermal renovation, totaling €43.5 million, as in the current year: Funding of up to €8 000 will be granted for comprehensive renovations. This measure reduces CO2 emissions and thus takes an important step in environmental protection. This, of course, also saves heating costs, brings the construction industry orders and thus secures employment. A short replica with regard to thermal rehabilitation and rehabilitation check: Since 2009, there has been this possibility. In total, 100,000 homes and 4,000 farms with a funding volume of € 590 million were thermally renovated. Interestingly, these € 590 million have triggered investments of € 4.2 billion. In the 2017 budget, €50 million of a total of €180 million will be made available to the countries for the construction of housing in the form of a target grant in the years 2015 to 2018. Ladies and gentlemen! All these are measures that stimulate the creation of housing, measures that contribute to sustainable housing, because only a functioning housing market is a guarantee of sustainable living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45966	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e45988	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Research is a cross-sectional issue, which is found in several sub-divisions of this budget. According to science and research subdivided into this large business complex, the economy and research subdivided, of course, also has a focus on applied research. In contrast to the previous year, a slight rise of €3.1 million to € 104.7 million in 2017. Mainly, research funding programmes are financed in this part, mainly at the FFG, the research funding company, of course also at the Austrian Economic Service, the aws, but also also at the Christian Doppler Forschungsgesellschaft and the ACR network. I would like to stress that there is also a consistent way to strengthen cooperation between science and the economy, but also the good cooperation of non-university research institutions with There are companies where both researchers and companies can test out their ideas and lead them to market maturity. Those who occasionally participate in the annual awards of these networks, for example in the ACR network, simply see how great and innovative ideas arise. The planned budget increase, which has already been mentioned several times, these €3.1 million, is mainly for measures from the start-up package, which are also to a large extent intended to finance the additional wage support of the first three employees in a start-up. This is a good initiative in my opinion, because of course this is also an area characterised by rapid growth. In addition to the start-ups, it is also important for me to focus our attention on all the founders. These are also supported in very many programs by the aws at the first steps in their enterprise. We all know that the way of an EPC to the first, second and third employees is, of course, also a more thoughtful one, not least because of financial feasibility. There is also a call for the young economy to be superior, because through the AMS, we are encouraging the first employee, so to speak, to expand it in a way similar to the start-ups, because this could be an important support for founders, for Noch-EPUs to more growth and to more jobs. I think that is also in our all interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46030	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46051	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been said so much negative in this budget debate today. I would therefore like to begin by saying: Austria's businesses are innovating at a high level, only that is why they are so successful in exporting where we do most of our economic performance and thus deserve most of our prosperity. That is what we are doing with the funding within the economic budget. That is why, I believe, it is not appropriate to announce negative messages, but – quite the contrary! – to look forward to the positive view, not only to demand courage, but also to take courage. An entrepreneurial principle, which I also agree with, reads: Economics and the willingness to take risks depend very strongly on whether there is a positive view of the future. If companies see this differently, this is also reflected in their willingness to invest. This budget is a budget tailored precisely to the needs of entrepreneurship. There are support and promotions to the right extent, for example, when we think about aws funding. I may draw up two examples that seem important to me: on the one hand, the strengthening of our life-science scene with the LISA programme, but also the taking over of guarantees that trigger multiple investments, are also a very important support programme. My colleague, Himmelbauer, addressed the Christian Doppler labs. These include Josef-Ressel centres, which cooperate with technical universities. There, too, high-quality research is initiated by funding, which at the end of the day not only economics and research in a 50 : 50 cooperation. to bring together, but also trigger a variety of investments in businesses. Mr Minister, it is known and also legitimate to say that there is never enough funding and it should be more and more, but in fact it will never be satisfactory to solve, because the more there is, the more it has to be. Nevertheless, the funding of this budget has its power. They follow a defined goal. I would like to thank you for that. And again: Not only demand courage, but also take courage – also from this point on!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46097	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46118	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are already debating the third day on the 2017 budget. Of course, every chapter is very important in itself. Personally, however, I also believe that the issue of economics is one of the most important ones to be debated, because it concerns the economic location of Austria and therefore also the question of how to secure existing jobs and how to create new jobs. In this context, the focus on young entrepreneurs is on the start-up focus of the Federal Government. I am convinced that this is an essential contribution to creating jobs in our economy. What do young entrepreneurs need? – Young entrepreneurs essentially need three things: Young entrepreneurs need coal, capital, they need space, corresponding infrastructures, and they need time. You also need consulting programmes. When I start with the coal, with the capital: There are good programs that have been set up. We have made great progress in venture capital financing. The instruments of these programmes are on the table, and all young entrepreneurs are called upon to use them as well. We also need space, corresponding structures, spin-offs, for example at universities, and much more. We need time, too. In time, I mean, There are a lot of ideas with us. I am fascinated again and again when young people have ideas, but these ideas also need advice, need support, for example by bringing these ideas to the aws to get advice on whether these projects are eligible. This also gives a young businessman safety to bring marketable products to the fore. In other words, one can hold: The Young Entrepreneurship Programme is a very great initiative, will bring forward Austria's economic location and will in particular create jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46158	Mr Mitterlehner has once again spoken on behalf of Mr Vice-Chanceller. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46180	Ladies and gentlemen! I think we're at the End of discussion of this chapter. I would like to thank Mr Angerer for the fair contributions he has made. This is a purely formality, namely the courtesy of completion. One has now been able to look at the act, at least by telephone. The letter concerning the date is with us on 22. On 25 October, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to Usually we have a maximum execution period of one month, tendency 14 days; this is in itself a goal. ==References== November, so I'd say it's not disproportionately long, but still pending. I'll let you know: This completion is coming. I hope that, even if it has just appeared a little different, we will continue to develop the relevant contacts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46212	I have no further comments to make. The discussions on these topics are thus complete. [[12:40:10]] UG 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research) UG 41: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46245	We come to the negotiation of Divisions 34 and 41. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. First speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46270	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the budget debate on transport, I would like to focus on two themes: the railway, the ÖBB, and civil aviation. In civil aviation, we have a flag carrier. I don't know if we really have the confession to this flag carrier everywhere, but we have it, the Austrian Airlines. Also derived from this confession, I would like there to be a corresponding action. There are two budgetary issues to be addressed in this context. The first point is flight charges. I am glad that there has now been some movement on this subject – slowly but surely. There has been a first stage of reduction, there should be another stage to reduce or even abolish. There would be a little more dynamic and a little more movement on the part of the government parties. I know that in this step-by-step process there have also been appropriate steps taken by Austrian airlines, but we are not yet at the target, and I am looking for you to really work on this topic in the next few days. On the second point, it may not be directly apparent why it is budget-relevant: land rights. It has recently become very modern, companies from the Middle East and the Middle East, be it Emirates, Qatar or Etihad, I do not want to say prefer, but still privileged to treat. Who are these companies? – These are all “privileged companies” – under quotations – because they have a common owner, namely the airline, the corresponding hub, the control device to do so, all have a common owner who wants to earn exactly one time. And we have the AUA, because the owner wants to earn, we have the airport, because the owner wants to earn, we have the Austro Control, because someone wants to earn, and, and, and. – This is not the case with our wage system, and we should consider that. We only have this one flag carrier, we have a lot of employees there, and we have a very positive effect on our capital Vienna over this hub we still have, as long as we have the AUA. If we don't want to put all of this at risk, we have to act accordingly. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bernhard.]] The second issue I would like to address is the ÖBB. We now have a core with Mr Mathe, I would like to say, solid working “technicians” – under quotation marks – who can or must work out something of the old loads; there are already a few issues. The ÖBB carries a backpack of debt, not debts from the operating sector, but simply from the construction of the infrastructure, and this naturally affects the overall structure. It should be considered whether it would be possible for other companies, such as the voestalpine after the crisis, to achieve a somewhat more dynamic state of the company with a kind of debt or something similar. Whether you do this about some kind of Asfinag solution or something else, be there now and would certainly be a point of several negotiations, but you have to think about it for sure, because at the end of the day, as it is so beautiful, it will always pay the Republic, no matter what pot. What I would also like to address, and here we are directly on the current statements, are the topics of personnel and safety. With the staff, it is now the case that there is a shortage in the tractor or production, as it is said. This lack of staff has been foreseeable for a long time and is not disincentived by current measures. At the same time, the training site in the area of St. Pölten, in Wörth, is not really used dynamically. I'm putting it in the room now: If the ÖBB already has its own training site, which produces the drivers of excellent quality, it could also offer this to other companies, such as the Westbahn, the MÁV in Hungary or other companies, for training. This would be an additional income branch and not just something to run cost cutting. Another issue, and I believe that safety is similar to that of the Railway Union. Today, for a variety of reasons, we have repeatedly been dealing with assaults, especially on train crews, more rarely on train passengers. [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] There's someone with a cut off or torn off ear, there's other assaults, and, and, and. The zero-to-zero solution is not a target, i.e. the so-called non-connected transport. We need – not across Austria, but in some critical areas – more train companions. This costs a little bit, but competing businesses like the Westbahn have shown how it works. You have to hold a little money in your hand. It is about more safety for our passengers, more safety also for our own ÖBB staff. And in this sense I would like to see the flag carrier on the rails as a positive example of Austrian economies in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46319	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46341	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The focus of the budget for transport, innovation and technology is to ensure an efficient, environmentally friendly, but above all social transport system. This budget focuses on strengthening public transport infrastructure. It is not surprising, therefore, that the majority of budget expenditure is spent in the rail/railway sector. The next year, i.e. 2017, it will be around €3 billion. With these investments we create a strong economic impetus and secure far more than 40 000 jobs throughout Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is not only invested and expanded in the so-called large rail axes, but it will also be invested in numerous regional and local projects. Around 60 percent of the total investment in rail development goes to the existing network. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak at this point to my previous speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, thank you for holding a few minutes ago that the ÖBB did not have any debt from the operating area, but – if you want to talk about debt that the ÖBB has – debt from the investments we have decided here in the House together. Ladies and gentlemen! The above-mentioned amount of €3 billion also includes the promotion of the teaching workshops of the ÖBB. In these teaching workshops, as you know, hundreds of young people across Austria are being trained at the highest level. The second major block of expenditure of €703 million in the rail sector is the so-called public service services, with which the federal government ensures that even economically non-profitable rail links can continue to be operated. I would like to make a brief comment on the introduction of the cycle road map, which will continue next year. Initial experiences in Vienna and Lower Austria are very positive. With the introduction of the cycle schedule in the previous year, the number of passengers increased by 7.2 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! On broadband, high-performance infrastructure: There is also 1 billion € available by 2020. For the Climate and Energy Fund, the budget for 2017 is assured – in the coming year, the expansion of electric mobility can be further promoted. Summary: Ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget for transport, innovation and technology is a living environmental, economic and social policy. Many thanks to our Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Jörg Leichtfried, who makes a really very innovative transport policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46400	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46423	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and on the screens! We received the written answers of our budget yesterday, Minister, and I note and ask you to correct this: While the oral answers in the Committee were very high-quality – thank you for that! – the written answers are in part such that I must say that I cannot accept them and will therefore submit further written requests. I now come to just one point that I would like to address on mobility, because this is a point symptomatic and shows how you deal with mobility: I'm talking about the flight charge. At that time, in 2010, when the flight tax was introduced, the explanations were to be read – I quote: "The purpose of the flight tax is to influence the choice of transport in the field of individual transport by reducing this gap in relation to the environmental burden on individual transport. As the ticket price for a passenger flight continues to decline, there is no adequate awareness of the environmental costs of air traffic. The intended steering effect is necessary in passenger transport because the total number of departures from Austrian airports increased by 9 % between 2005 and 2009.” – That was the reason for the introduction of the flight charge. If you look at what has happened since then, you have to say that the flight charge has developed an increasing effect. In 2015, it was € 108 million, which came from the airport. And now we hear, Minister, that you are planning – coalitionally agreed – to halve this flight, in two steps at 25 percent each. Now I come to the facts: The flight charge is a charge on a departure from an Austrian airport. There are three stages: for short distance, for medium distance and for long distance. What is a short distance in air traffic? – You will be amazed: all Europe plus all Russia plus North Africa – all short distance! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] For a short distance flight you pay ridiculous 7 € flight charge. What's a middle line? – It goes to Central Africa, to the Cape Verde Islands and to Pakistan. For this medium distance you pay 15 € flight charge – and only beyond is it a long distance with 35 €. – These are ridiculous amounts! I've been looking at how high the current flight prices are. There are beautiful homepages where you can search for cheap tickets. I entered flights for December 2016, i.e. for the next month: Return flights in European countries are between 50 and 200 €. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Insanity!]] You will come to Moscow in December/retour around 158 €, to Morocco by 80 € and to Chicago/retour by 383 €. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: A madness!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's just more perverse!]] And then you say that the flight charge is a burden and it must be abolished now! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is absurd! What you're doing here is absurd! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Louter Öko-Irre!]] This is a single tax privilege for air traffic, which cannot be justified by anything. If you look at the 2017 budget, you can see that there are 115 million € under the flight charge. Mr Minister, if you are serious about the budgetary truth, you cannot cut the amount of the flight next year, because otherwise you would lie to Parliament in a way, so to the Parliament the untruth. You expect 115 million €, and if you plan to reduce the flight tax, that can't be 115 million €; otherwise, you'll get dizzy. Another thing: Air transport is one of the major climate-evils. Within the EU, air transport produces 150 million tonnes of CO2, in Austria it is 2.2 million tonnes. The Ministry of Finance, which is quite interesting, has had a study prepared by the IHS in September 2012 and I can now quote from it. There you can read: “Based on the economic theories for pricing, as well as the experiences in Germany, the flight tax is primarily a challenge for low-cost carriers with aggressive market penetration strategy. In Germany, this resulted in LCC – low-cost carriers – setting “unprofitable routes, which can be interpreted as a success in the sense of the ecological steering effect.” That is, the study commissioned by the Ministry of Finance says that the only ones under pressure are the low-cost carriers. And this leads to people tending to change from the plane, for example, to the railway – something we all want. But now you come with your coalition partner and want to halve the flight charge. [[Abg. Kogler: Run out in the long term!]] I think this is just a fossil approach to climate protection, and I think it actually insults your intelligence. I have seen you as an intelligent transport politician looking forward to the future, and I expect that what is currently being postponed – and that was expected for the Council of Ministers this week – will also be postponed, that you will reject this project of reducing the flight tax, which is anyway ridiculously low, at lowest ticket prices, that you will remain in the budget and that these 115 million passengers will also come in and that you will ensure that our mobility policy – your mobility policy! – points in the right direction. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] That means: Farewell from the fossil age, on to renewable energies! And that's where air traffic has to make its contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46568	Next speaker: Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46599	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I have to address the remarks made by Mr Willi and say a few things about this, which is also complementary to what we are talking about. It is also about jobs and the location of Austria. It is about the fact that, as a result of the announcement of a reduction in flight charges alone, investments have been announced that create jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] And then you have to say what it means if we don't, because we're in the international competition. [[Abg. Kogler: Wake up! Or do you always sleep in the suit?]] In the comparable EU countries, this tax is abolished. Austria cannot retain it as the only state. We must ensure that we keep the jobs and even gain some of them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Short to the transport budget [[Abg. Kogler: In front of each group, throw yourself in the dust!]] The transport budget is one of the largest budget items in the federal budget. Nearly €3.8 billion are estimated at BMVIT alone, a major part is €2 billion for investments in the rail – that is good and in the interests of citizens who have a benefit when the railway becomes attractive and develops further. The railway itself – and I believe we are of an opinion – should be the largest electric mobility provider in Austria. This should be extended, and the railway should remain in this core business. In addition, of course, investment is also being made in the development of the road network. In general, it is said: I think the issue of traffic is of enormous importance in times like this. Consider the labour market: If we rightly call for a certain flexibility of workers, we also need to ensure that there is a corresponding mobility offer at the same time. It is therefore important that we invest in the development of the railway and in the development of the road network accordingly. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] An example of where the money flows is the expansion of the railway from Vienna to Graz, the construction of the Semmering base tunnel, which is now moving forward again. He will bring the two metropolises – the large metropolises and the slightly smaller metropolises – closer to each other. The positive example of the western route: Vienna–Linz is almost a commuter track, one can come in 1 hour 15 minutes from Linz to Vienna or vice versa from Vienna to Linz. That's a good thing. The passenger numbers show: The faster and more attractive the train is, the more people they use. However, the expansion of the transport infrastructure is also of great importance to the economic location, because without transport, the economy cannot take place. On the one hand, of course, it is also a booster for companies – construction will preserve and create jobs – and on the other hand, we need a suitable infrastructure for trading. Mr Bundesminister Leichtfried, I also very much welcome your joint initiative with our Environment Minister to promote electromobility. On the one hand, an incentive is to be created by means of promotions, but I believe that we should continue to promote another incentive: The investment in charging infrastructure is very important, which will be of crucial importance, but also possible attractions, such as a – at least temporary – parking fee exemption for electric vehicles. We are now creating the opportunity for the municipalities to introduce this, as a positive example the city of Graz was called. I call on the city of Vienna to move very quickly to ensure that the electric mobility is achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46667	The next item is the speech by Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46689	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The infrastructure budget is the subject, and I cannot join the euphoria of my previous speakers. I would just like to remind you of the magnitude of what we are talking about: We have a budget of € 5.1 billion, essentially it is relevant for the ÖBB, because they get 5 billion of them. How does this split up again? – We are talking about just under €2 billion of investment in infrastructure, we are talking about just under €2 billion, which actually need to be spent on pensions, we are talking about €700 million, which is spent on the operation – what we buy from the ÖBB services. In all sub-areas, the tasks are not sufficiently done. There are very specific proposals, and my colleague, Mr Loacker, has already said a lot about pensions in recent days. There are no correct answers to the illness-related early retirements. I'm focusing on the infrastructure. Next year we invest € 2 billion, but we have also planned to invest €15.2 billion within five years. Now you have to look at how these investments develop: For the economic performance between 2016 and 2022, a development of plus 18 percent is assumed. In the same period, investment in infrastructure is developing with a plus of 65 percent, i.e. three times faster than economic performance. First of all, I have the following questions: Are these investments exactly the right ones in this area? Is the infrastructure for the economic location more important to people than, for example, education, from early childhood education to science? Is the area more important than the area of social affairs or the rule of law? – I believe that if I now make the €2 billion, at least in the field of education the value we create for the future, is higher than in the infrastructure. So you don't misunderstand me. I am not of the opinion that we should not invest, but I believe that there are several possibilities or measures. The first measure is quite specific: We can stretch certain projects or move them to a later date. The second point is also quite specific: We can also put forward regional projects provided for in the framework plan, because this would actually create economic performance in the region, and actually, ad hocly – 2017, 2018, 2019 – would create a fully social added value. The next point: We NEOS have made very specific proposals as to how we can become more cost-effective when operating with the same quality – I would like to say here in the direction of SPÖ: according to the best bidder and not according to the cheapest bidder principle. There are allergic reactions to social democracy on two points: One is to make public invitations to tender, to allow all applicants to tender. – All applicants are more than the ÖBB. It is currently true that 100 tenders are made in about 99 direct contracts. You can imagine this: We have a route, we have a year in which this route is to be used. Who could offer this performance? - Ah, the ÖBB! Let's forget the call, we don't need – an offer could be cheaper, could be better! The ÖBB are so close, why should we consider someone else? The fact is that in Bavaria, with an almost equally large network of routes – and I have to say, as far as economic development is concerned, Bavaria is not a banana state – one-third has been saved by being removed from direct procurement. This would mean a savings of almost €200 million a year, which is not a cardboard handle. To compare the order of magnitude: These €200 million are what we pay each year in the Science Fund, and we could save that only by the withdrawal of direct grants. The next point, which, from my point of view, is also very important in addition to direct payments: You have to look at how the ÖBB operates on the market. I already see very strong effects. For example, the outline, totally banal: Where the flower cellars are re-deleted and whether the station is renovated, it is not oriented to the needs of the people, but to the electoral calendar. Where the next country elections are the next municipal council elections, there the station is actually revitalized, and in my opinion this is not the right form of organisation for a railway operation. My speaking time is that I still have a thousand things to say, but only so much: In fact, the budget is not going to be accepted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46755	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46776	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think you can say it often enough: When we talk about research, technology and innovation in Austria, we are actually talking about safeguarding, preserving and also creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, which concerns the future of especially young people and maintaining prosperity in Austria. Especially at the threshold to the fourth industrial revolution, at a time of increasing digitalisation, which is changing the world of life and work alike, it is important that we take up the opportunities and challenges together offensively. And that is exactly what we have made very clear in Austria in the field of research, technology and innovation. We can rightly be proud that we are now number two in Europe, that we are now the second best in Europe at the F&E quota. Yes, we want to get even better in this area, but we are definitely on the right track in the field of applied research. It is important that we can increase the budget, especially in the field of research and innovation. With the last tax reform, the research premium has also been increased, as we are now moving towards €600 million. In addition, there will be the research billions. I think we are well placed in this area, but at least we have to stick to it. The priorities that Jörg Leichtfried has now set are also very important, namely digitization, Industry 4.0, intelligent factories of the future, to areas such as space research, which is now also about thousands of jobs. Austria is at the forefront of high technology. Measures that I am very pleased about as a Carinthian, where the Styria is of course very strong: the project “Silicon Austria”, an initiative to become world class in the field of electronics and microelectronics. In this area, there is to be a research factory of our own, we want to create foundation professorships. It is very exciting that we try to force the enthusiasm of young people, especially young people – the fumbling, the joy of technology, electronics – through our own workshops. This is also what makes BMVIT so successful in the field of research internships. One cannot start early enough to promote young talents; this will continue, that is a very important initiative. I can also say – because that is, I believe, just as important as the budget – that, apart from the budget, one is constantly developing the framework conditions – that has begun with the Patent Office, continues towards Quickchecks in the field of research funding – and it is quite exciting, of course, to evaluate continuously. I can take up the appreciation offensive of Matthias Strolz here in Parliament and, on the one hand, Jörg Leichtfried for the great setting of priorities and this great budget that I really find very, very positive in this area, thank you, on the other hand, for all other colleagues but also Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, Gerhard Deimek, our chairman Ruperta Lichtenecker, Ulla Weigerstorfer and Claudia Gamon. We live exactly what I mean in the Research Committee: We are discussing critically, partially harshly, but always fairly and appreciatively, and we have done our utmost to work together away from political work. I think we can be proud that some initiatives have really started in committee, for example the open innovation strategy. We are now starting with the evaluation of the research landscape, we are still going to submit the application here today, and we are dealing with technology assessment. These are precisely the priority areas that we have set out to improve where we want to design and work together. If we do this together with the people, with the research community and the relevant ministries, this will bring us, I believe, on the right path towards innovation leader.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46832	The next item is the speech by Mr Hagen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46853	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, after so much youthful enthusiasm, dear Philip, there is now a little temperate reality. [[Call the ÖVP:Angry old man!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - Let's go to the budget. When you look closely at the budget, you see, it's a little inspectacular, it's already been said here: It is a continuation of previous budgets. Of course, this also has its reason, we have already heard it: 2 billion € go to the railway, which I do not find unreasonable, I have to say quite clearly. Of course, these tunnel projects cost money, but they make us competitive, which is already well-invested money. Of course, it will be a little more difficult in other areas, because there is a lack of money, but that is the case with every budget depending on how you see it and how it is stored. I personally find: Yeah, track's good, that's right. What has perhaps been forgotten in the budget, Mr Minister, I have already referred to it in the Committee, is that these are the runways, the feeder stations, because the funding will be somewhat reduced. This is a pity, because passenger traffic is exactly what it is that it remains competitive and people are not forced into the car because there is no offer or just a bad offer. So maybe you should rework there a little bit and bring that into the real lot. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] - Thank you. [[Abg. Kogler: Frenetic applause!]] But what bothers me in the budget is the vignette revenue. Of course, vignette revenues also have their reason – and this is why road construction is forced – but they are higher than expenditure in this area. Mr Minister, that is not, honestly, a problem for me: Although we have a surplus in the revenue from vignettes, on the other hand we also have a special toad. The meaning and purpose of driving on the motorway today is to come quickly from A to B. Then there is this – I say it again and again – not quite comprehensible air hundreds of people who slow down traffic, and I believe that this will produce more pollutants and not protect the environment. If you have to slow down and drive again and again, then you consume – you can see this on the tank clock – much more sprit. So the environmental idea is not quite clear to me. Similarly, the following: If I want to go up to the burner, I have to buy the vignette first so that I can drive on the Inntal motorway with this unscrupulous air hundred. Then I drive up the burner and I have to pay toll again because a road piece is extra mutated. Mr. Federal Minister, this is something where the driver is just being excavated. If you already have surpluses, you could think about abolishing these unscrupulous special toads. That would be reasonable. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] I think that the driver will be picked up more than enough anyway. If you look at all the hidden taxes for the drivers, you can see that they pay more than enough. I think it would be reasonable to think of a discharge for the commuters who depend on the car. The German Transport Minister sees that he can protect his citizens in connection with the toll – I would expect it from you. Maybe you'll think in this direction once. I would like to help you ask me, I have some ideas that may not be so unreasonable. Mr Bundesminister, on your provocation regarding electromobility, i.e. promotions for e-cars [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser]] I've been wondering: Are you Minister of the Environment or Minister of Transport? – That’s a good approach, we don’t want to discuss it at all, that’s certainly meant in the future, the only question is whether the development is already so far, that these promotions are also appropriate that someone buys such a car, because of course one also has to think economically. Such a car costs much more, but if you have to drive a long distance, you don't come from A to B, but you have to stop at a stop and hope there's an electric gas station somewhere, where you can tap and continue sometime after a few hours of inn. Is that really good if I need the alcomats to blow in or the alkopop – or what does that mean? – before I can continue? – Alkolock? - Sorry, Alkolock! [[Federal Minister Leichtfried: Alkolock!]] I don't know if that's a good story. I think it would be important for you first to be able to drive 1,000 kilometers with the battery, that would be a reasonable story, and then you would have a quick charge between, then a promotion in this area would be well-invested money, but it must be worthwhile for those who buy the car. It's a well-designed approach, but I don't know if it really works. I would like to make another suggestion. She doesn't cost much money at all, Minister: If you are on the road in the two-track areas on the motorway, where many trucks drive, you often have the problem of slowing down continuously and creating an unpleasant, often very, very dangerous situation through the overcrowding trucks, the brummi race. There's a proposal that doesn't cost a lot of money: There are these overhead traffic control systems, as one could say – in some areas or temporary, at certain times, in which there is a lot of traffic; this can be seen with the traffic cameras – introduce truck bans. It would be very easy and would not cause any additional costs if one were to set up a truck overcrowding ban in the two-track area at impact times. I believe that the traffic flow would work better, it would also be good for the environment if one did not have to slow down constantly and then return to gas. There we are again in fuel consumption, and if you slow down strongly – there are enough scientific expertise – fine dust is created which is caused by the brakes. So these brake and driving maneuvers are not always as environmentally friendly as they are. It would be a good thing if you didn't have to invest money, because we already have these overhead traffic control systems. Put her in the right place! I would be pleased if this proposal would soon become a law. Minister, I invite you to do something. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46939	Mrs Himmelbauer's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e46960	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery, welcome! I will return to the research area, which will also be found in the VIT chapter. Here too, we see a slight increase, which is also due to the start-up package. However, I would also like to add that the decision of the November Group on Research, Technology and Start-ups, which is not yet taken into account in the 2017 budget, will make a very respectable increase in the FTI sector. Our FTI strategy is, I believe, widely known. The highest objective is to rise to the Innovation Leaders, an essential topic in this context is the financial provision of research institutions, but also the research funding agency. I can come to the three major areas of action in this budget: on the one hand, to promote research with thematic priorities, such as intelligent mobility, which includes e-mobility, for which Minister Leichtfried presented measures only this week. However, it is also about intelligent production with already established Stiftung professorships on the topics of Industry 4.0, Big Data or intelligent materials. This continuation, which is also reflected in the budget, is absolutely useful. I also hope – the Minister has announced this in the Committee – that new professorships will be reviewed, as well as at the technical level. A second major area is the FTI infrastructure. We can stay in intelligent production immediately, as I would like to highlight in particular the pilot factories in which, without disturbance, the running production plant can be developed, but also tested. The first pilot factory already exists in the sea town of Aspern, this was started together with TU Vienna, another is in planning for 2017. Finally, international cooperation is also an essential budget item. Above all, participation in the European space programme is quite a successful cooperation, I think, as has been shown over the past few years. This shows that Austrian companies are also very active in the research and development of space technology; an ESA starting point for start-ups was recently set up in Graz – a great initiative to make progress in this field. This morning, my colleague, my colleague, has already mentioned this in the chapter on science and research: As far as our research rate is concerned, we have been continuously increasing in recent years. Since last week, it is also known that, according to Eurostat, we have the second highest research rate in Europe, and we have also been able to improve in other rankings. However, money alone does not matter, I would like to stress this here. It is also a matter of creating awareness, of continuing to work on it. This is also reflected in the defined impact objectives: One of these concerns the number of companies with R & D activities, which has only increased slightly in recent years, but it is also about the size of women in research departments; unfortunately, there has been relatively little in recent years. I think it is a pity that innovation-promoting public procurement has been removed from the scope of its objectives, which is a good measure that can also be used as a public hand to stimulate innovation. However, the Minister has already submitted a written answer to this question, why this has happened. It is clear, not least because of the decision on the research package in November, that innovation-promoting public procurement will continue to play an important role. I think everything in everything is on a good path – but I am far away from saying that we can lean back. Rather, we must continue to work towards the innovation leader.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47016	The next item is the report by Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47037	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since the charming ladies from the initiative of Free Women from Schärding sit with us at the audience gallery, I can welcome them again to us quite cordially. [[General condolences.]] Mr Leichtfried, on the two budget areas for which you are responsible, UG 34 and UG 41, I would like to address two issues that concern the southern states, as you have called them: the states of Carinthia and Styria. I am pleased that you have taken up initiatives that Jörg Haider has already held in the government programme in 1999 under the name of Silicon Alps, and that this is now clearly to create an Austrian-wide silicone alps strategy. We're really happy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] For this purpose, you are planning a start-up financing of € 750 000 to three years, which is € 250 000 per year. We know from the National Bank calculations that the integration of a refugee will cost €277,000 over the next 45 years – this funding is rather modest. I would ask you to make available the corresponding budgetary resources in the long term and to promote more in this area as well. The second issue I would like to address also concerns a project by Jörg Haider: the Koralmbahn. For a long time, it has been clearly recognized that this can be an economic factor, an economic engine, this transnational railway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] It might also be to mention that Styria and Carinthia have co-financed this railway line, both federal states have made a contribution of €160 million. [[Cheerfulness of Members Lichtenecker and Walser]] The European Union will also make a contribution because the Carinthia and Steirers have made a great effort to ensure that this line is integrated into the EU network. [[Abg. Walser: Jörg-Haider memorial railway!]] Because the Greens are right now with intermediate calls on the thing: We have a problem, and that is the Greens! The Greens are protesting the corresponding value-added measures along this line. I have already mentioned it in the Committee: “Greens protest against the establishment of logistics center at the foot of the Dobratsch” – “Uhu has the older rights”, says it. Now I'm telling you the following: As hunter and heger I know Uhus, I have already met them; I do not know them personally, but I assume that he will arrange with a changed situation. It is simply important that this logistics centre is created there and the appropriate measures are also put in place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr Minister, I drew your attention last year to your predecessor: The approval expires in 2021. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Before the Greens can really prevent this, we should implement the project, you should provide for appropriate measures in the budget. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please, Mr. Minister, put this into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47135	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47202	Mrs Hakel has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47225	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already reported on the start-up package on the previous item on the agenda, of course most of this package also concerns the areas of transport, innovation and technology. Let me therefore address the Founder Protection Package, which was presented by Federal Minister Leichtfried already in mid-October. What's that? – With an age of proud 117, the Austrian Patent Office is one of the oldest legal institutions in the world. It is precisely because the protection of intellectual property will continue to play a very central role in Austria's innovation location in the future that it is all the more important to create a new legal basis that will meet the importance of this institution in the future. So far, it has been cheap raw materials and transport routes, low labour and energy costs, which have decided on economic success, that is far from everything. More and more important is the knowledge of how a product is produced or a service can be offered, and it is increasingly about whether and how this knowledge can be protected. From Austrian start-ups come ideas that change our lives. I've already told you what's there, one of the most famous start-ups is runtastic with its fitness app, which you – like me; many of you will have on your mobile phone – certainly always reminds us weekly that you should make a little more movement – or you praise because you're making so much movement. The protection of these ideas, which are, for example, behind runtastic or also Shpock, the online flohmarkt app, remains in the hustle and bustle of the foundation sometimes simply on the track. Start-ups are of course also in a dilemma: They need to find investors, they need to talk about their idea, their innovation – but they also risk stealing their ideas. They often think too late about protecting their intellectual property, going to the Patent Office and leaving it there. The new offer of the Patent Office is now intended to help quickly and above all unbureaucratically: On the one hand, you can now come to your own brand in a few weeks, Fast Track is called the new online trademark application of the Patent Office. Then there is the patent check: You receive up to € 10,000 and thus receive either competent patent advice or can cover national and international patent costs, but also involve and pay patent lawyers. Then there is the possibility to enter the technical solutions provisionally, so if there is no very mature concept, you can at least once protect the idea and the time, so to speak, the date of the birth of this innovative idea. When these steps are taken in the future in advance, the innovative ideas of good conscience can be presented, presented and applied to potential investors, partners and future customers without having to fear that the idea will be stolen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47278	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Lightenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47301	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the Upper Austrian, I would like to address a central issue in infrastructure. It is the railway link between the third- and second-largest city in Austria, namely between Linz and Graz, which is very dissatisfying. Now there is a construction site, and that is why you need more than three hours for this route with twice the changeover; but even if this construction site is then completed, you will have to spend more than two hours for these 220 kilometers. Now the situation is that the route Bregenz–Vienna is excellently extended. This is great because you just need about 1 hour and 15 minutes from Linz to Vienna – but for everything that goes from the north to the south, you need infinitely long. Mr. Leichtfried, therefore, is my request to take into account exactly this line of Graz-Linz in the investment package and to establish a correspondingly fast connection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second area is the major topic of innovation leader. Yes, we have lost a place every year for many years until we landed at number 11. Now there's a change: We improved to 10th place. Nevertheless, we know that we are even more behind in different parameters than the Innovation Leader countries. I would like to mention the statistics on patent applications: With regard to the registered patents reported to the European Patent Office, Austria is well above the average of the 28 EU countries, but we are in seventh place just now. I think that this is an urgent improvement. If we are already much better at the research rate, we must ensure that this is also the case in this area, namely that innovations, inventions can also be notified in this form. There are various countries such as Switzerland, Finland, the Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, all of which are far better off in patent applications. But there is also the question of the implementation of the research strategy, of course. The research strategy decided on by the Federal Government has been on the table for years, one is trying to pursue the corresponding objectives, but finally we have a very large gap. To close this gap, we think it is urgently necessary, and there is a need for the corresponding teaching – not only in the fields of research, but, of course, in the large field of education, in the field of universities. In order to close the funding gap accordingly to the implementation of the FTI strategy, we are now submitting the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will, I think, be a major concern for most of us here in space to advance precisely these future topics – research, innovation – because we know that today's research and innovation are tomorrow's jobs. This is precisely why it is important to focus on research, digitisation and digital economy. Yes, I have considered the package of measures very well, and yes, of course, it needs a focus on the new mobile phone standard 5G. At the end of the day, however, it is important to focus more generally on the measures in the field of digital change and to take the appropriate steps. I believe that in the coming months, in the coming year and in the following years, we will have great challenges before us in order to take advantage of this very topic as an opportunity for the Austrian economy, for Austrian companies and, above all, for Austrian society as a whole. Mr Minister, I believe that the necessary strengthenings need to be made.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47387	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47446	For an opinion, Mr Mag. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47467	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to thank you so far for the speeches and also allow me to include in my further considerations some of what you have now said – which is quite correct. I would like to address some of the points you have raised and give you a general overview of the budgetary situation in my area. BMVIT is divided into two areas: transport, research and technology. In the transport sector, in the infrastructure sector, we currently have an investment volume of more than EUR 3 billion. However, in my opinion – and this has already been mentioned by some of you – this investment is, of course, crucial, but it is also crucial in what is actually being invested. This is, of course, a major challenge and responsibility in the decision. I see it as my responsibility to provide strategicly important networks, for the veins of life that are traversing our country and which are essential in order to be able to rise even in times when the economic situation is becoming increasingly difficult. We are, if I may come to the centre of gravity, in the European Union railway country number one, that is very good. But now, if you look beyond the European Union, you can see that there is still a country ahead of us, that is Switzerland. You must already have the claim not to stick, but to pick up. Taking Switzerland will take some time, but I think it is justified to raise the claim. Therefore, next year alone, we invest €2 billion in the expansion of the rail, up to 2022 in total over €15 billion. These investments, ladies and gentlemen, are, apart from the transport dimension, an economic and social policy that is living. Some two billion euros secure and create more than 40 000 jobs in Austria. Over the entire framework period, 300 000 jobs will be secured and newly created. Dear ladies and gentlemen! There have now been some remarks on your part about the investments in the railway sector, and there is already the contradiction that exists in part. On the one hand, Mrs Lichtenecker says that everything is going far too slowly, and on the other hand, Mr Bernhard says that perhaps you could slow down and use the money differently. – I mean, this is a fundamental question, and the fundamental question is quite clear to me: Do we want to expand the railway in Austria or not? If we choose to expand the railways, ladies and gentlemen, then these large investments are necessary, because without these large investments, rail traffic on the south-east will not work; without it, rail transport will not work on the north-south crossing in Tyrol, and without it rail traffic will not work even in the Graz-Linz connection. These investments are therefore good, they are necessary and make it possible for us to expand our public transport further. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about the development of public transport, then the question raised by you, Mr Bernhard, is essential, namely: How do you handle it? – I believe that there is a very good example for this. We now have to re-open the transport service contracts with the transport associations, and I am not willing to say: The idea that we had with Vorarlberg has become a very good success, because we have gone off working alongside each other in transport policy. How'd that go so far? – The Federation was responsible for basic care, and the countries have also been able to order and pay what they wanted to have in addition services. Our access is now: Together we create the best public transport system for the country. That's what it's all about! If you reach the best with the direct award, you can use the direct award if you reach it differently, you can do it differently. In any case, it is about a better transport system, ladies and gentlemen, and not about possible ideological ideas as to how rail transport works. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Infrastructure is not only about transport infrastructure, it is of course also about modern broadband supply. We have a clear objective in this area. The goal by 2020 is: 100 Mbit/s for all Austrians everywhere. We're on a good way. Of course, there is a need for investment. We have already discussed this in the Committee: There would have been two possibilities: state direct investment in broadband or the system chosen by us with subsidies for companies going where they would not otherwise go. This is the better way to deal with this situation. By 2020, we will invest €1 billion in all over the world. If we had done it ourselves, we would have needed €9 billion, and I do not think that this could be the purpose and purpose of modern broadband investment policy. Of course, we also have to invest in the mobility of the future beyond the public sector. One of these focuses on the electromobility that some of you have already addressed. Yesterday we presented a €72 million support package. The Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of the Environment and also the economy have participated. Mr Hagen asked whether this was the right time. - Yeah, that's the right time now. We are in a phase in which the technology greatly improves, which leads to charging capacity and power of the batteries. All major car manufacturers start to offer e-mobile, so e-cars. The market will therefore be much larger, which will also have an impact on prices. We now have to set up where we are responsible, namely the charging infrastructure, so that we have comprehensive charging infrastructure available by 2020. It is also about incentives, whether financial or otherwise, that make even more sense of e-mobility. In conjunction with automated driving, which is also a priority of my transport policy, we will be able to use the advantages of modern technology, to secure the location, to increase road safety and to increase transport efficiently and environmentally. These are essential objectives of transport policy. Mr Willi, you have referred to the ticket. I would ask you to discuss the financial part with the Minister for Finance. That's not my construction site, as it were. My task is to assess the impact of such a tax and how it would be to reduce the tax. The assessment is again important in terms of location policy and transport policy, and we can already discuss it there. One should point out, especially if one considers that the competition for short-haul flights – railways is serious with us, that only the extension on the West Railway has resulted in flights from Innsbruck, Linz or Salzburg to Vienna being in fact out of chance compared to railway rides, and that will be so on the south line. [[Abg. Willi: That's what we want!]] That's what we want in Austria as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The second priority in my ministry next to infrastructure is research. In Austria there is a long industrial tradition, a strong industrial base, and I believe that this base is the great competitive advantage of Austria. The industrial rate of Austria is 19 percent of GDP, one of the highest among the industrial nations. And the challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is to keep this quota and further strengthen our industry. How has our industry become so strong? – Our industry has not become so strong because we have gone into mass production because we wanted to compete with those who can produce even more mass. Our industry has therefore become so strong because we have focused on innovation and technology, on niche products, on products that are among the best in the world. Therefore, it is no coincidence that our industrial companies in Austria with export quotas of 85 percent are one of the best in the world. The task of the public authorities, the Ministry of Infrastructure, is to ensure that the opportunities for these companies remain that way – no, not just stay that way, but get better. There are therefore two priorities for promoting applied research, on the one hand, top technology and on the other, risk research. High technology means continuing to produce, manufacture and manufacture the best products in the world. Risk research means supporting where companies are not able to go because the risk is too high, while also buying mistakes, even buying, that may sometimes be nothing from a research project. The research projects, which will not be, will not be anything, but those that are going through will again lead to the production of the best products available. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in my opinion, the great opportunity for our industry, but also the great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises and also the great opportunity for start-ups. Economics, public hands, universities and, above all, the people who have to work hard for their money in the enterprises stand together. In this way, we can keep jobs in the country, bring more jobs into the country, and make sure that people in Austria do well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47529	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47579	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you have referred to investments in rural life approaches, in the infrastructure that characterize this budget, large investments in the rail sector, but also investments in the future, namely in those measures relating to broadband development. I would also like to dedicate myself to this because it is urgently necessary for the economic location. It's a future question. We have been conducting this discussion for several years, in fact since the auction of frequencies, and now, by 2020, one billion € is available for this. All of us who work in rural areas know that those funds made available for investment are tripled. There is tremendous impetus for rural areas if we pursue the objective of providing broadband to 70 percent of households by 2021, but also impulses that the economy there provides. Only a few days ago, Lower Austria received the European broadband price for its model – in fact, there are four model regions within an overall model – which is implemented with the NöGIG, a society of the state of Lower Austria. We have the goal that 2030 each company in Lower Austria has a fibre optic network connection. These are important measures, investments in the future. I think these are the ones that are also the most important of these budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47609	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47630	Mr President. Minister! High house! We have now heard from the Minister that, in particular, the area of transport is equipped with considerable resources. I am thinking here of the area of the ÖBB with the upcoming rail infrastructure investments that are planned, and of the total budget available. That is why we are obliged to deal with the available tax billions. In this way, I turn to the intended objectives of action. To Objective 1: Mr Minister, we fully share your opinion: Every road fatality on Austria's roads is too much. We therefore also support the implementation of the 2011–2020 transport safety programme. Objective 2 is to say that it will also be necessary in the future to promote the mobility of people, goods and information, because it is only by developing a good infrastructure that it is possible to secure Austria's economic location in a sustainable way. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Cuckoo.]] In the same way, we are in favour of creating environmentally friendly forms of mobility in the Transport access and that we really all focus on public transport. In this sense, the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel and the Koralm Tunnel is also necessary despite the high cost and the long-term burden on the budget, as is the promotion of private railways, such as the Steiermärk national railways of €2.3 million or the Graz Köflacher Railway with €1.8 million, even if of course more promotion would be better. However, we do not want one thing: the handle in the pockets of the drivers through new traffic taxes or mineral oil taxes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This brings me to action objective 3. The aim is to ensure gender equality in mobility and equal access for women and men to all transport services. This is interesting to me, because so far I have always believed that women and men are equal and equal in traffic. - Apparently not! Ladies and gentlemen. Let me give you an example: Many of you are certainly familiar with the Zöbern motorway race station on the change. It should be noted that so-called women's parking spaces are provided directly for access to the stop station or to the gas station shop, large, blue marked parking spaces, such as disabled parking spaces, reserved for women, but only at some distance from them disabled parking spaces. I ask you: Is that gender justice? – I say: No, no, no, Rather, I believe that such measures lead exactly to discrimination, namely discrimination against women. [[Abg. Schwentner: It is about the safety of women on parking spaces!]] It could be thought that women are unable to park properly like any other man. I don't think so! Or you'd have to think that... [[Abg. Schwentner: Have you ever thought about how women are doing when they have the parking...?]] – Faith Don't you think men want to leave with children? - Or: Women should be preferred. That would be quite unfair in my eyes. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you mean – and this is a budget item – that you have to investigate different concerns and needs and disparities between women and men with analyses, then that may be good. Since 2015, we have already carried out eight gender analyses. However, if these analyses should lead to the fact that, as already in the public service, men are still being discriminated against and disadvantaged in transport, then, ladies and gentlemen, you will not find our consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47692	I call Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47714	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the remarks of my previous speaker: This is not a special preference for women, but it is a question of protecting women, as the colleague has rightly mentioned. When you get involved look at how these parking spaces are arranged, then you probably understand what it is about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! A warm thanks for the commitment to the expansion of the rail and public transport. Responsible transport policy focuses on environmental kindness, durability and, of course, also attractive solutions for all. The figures in subheading 41, transport, were essentially already discussed. In particular, these are grants to the ÖBB infrastructure and transport service contracts. Transport services contract and public service: BMVIT appoints and finances the basic offer in particular, even though the Minister has said that it must not only be the basic offer. However, it is mainly a basic offer of transport services for local and regional transport. The federal government thus ensures that there is an environmentally friendly, sustainable public transport in Austria. We need a powerful, modern rail network. The 2017-2022 Framework Plan provides €15.2 billion for this purpose. This ensures the conditions for punctuality and increased security. In the framework programme, it is also worth reading that, for example, €76 million will be made available for train safety systems, ETCS and train influence in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen! We also discussed the issue of youth employment and training yesterday in the discussion on work and social affairs. The ÖBB Group itself is not only one of the largest companies in Austria, but also with 1 828 apprentices, of which 16.6 percent are girls or women, one of the largest training companies, especially in the field of technical education. In 2016 576 apprentices were admitted, which is 10 percent more than in the previous year. Thus, the ÖBB have already responded to a shortage of skilled workers in 2020 and offer young people appropriate training. This is a good investment in the future of Austria and a good investment in our youth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47762	Mrs Maurer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47783	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use this speech to the UG 34 to give another overview. In fact, we have included 34 research in the UG. But we also have in the UG 33 research, in the economic chapter, and we have it in the UG 31 for science and research, and we also have € 223 million, which in other resorts are for research. So it is already very fragmented at this upper level of the budget. This year the Court of Auditors submitted a report stating that it is not possible to provide an overall overview of research funding because research funding is so fragmented. There are 240 different actors operating research funding in Austria. 58 million € will be spent on staff alone. The Court of Auditors says there is a programme jungle, and it is perfectly clear that this kind of fragmentation is not really helpful in creating transparency and ensuring that the funds are used well. The research rate is always an indicator of how much money we want to spend on this area as a whole: 3.76% of GDP, this is a funny figure, but well, we have set ourselves the goal, it is also in the FTI strategy, the let's get to it. This research quota, however, and this is very clear to the Court of Auditors, is not an effective indicator. It is not possible to make any statement as to whether R&D funds are used in a meaningful manner and whether they actually become research effective. But this is exactly the aspect that is relevant for international calculation. The question of whether it is really research effective also arises in the research premium. We hope that the evaluation will be carried out well and that a statement can actually be made about whether the research premium is research-effective. You have also announced that you want to make an evaluation of the overall research funding. We expressly welcome this. Mr Minister, I have three requests to you, since I would like this evaluation not to go as it was in the case of the research premium: First of all, there is an internationally usual indicative value which indicates what such evaluations will cost so that an adequate statement can be made. If one has a very large programme to evaluate, then one logically also has to cover many different topics – that costs money. The international benchmark for this is 0.5 to 1 percent of the total, which would definitely be used to achieve a meaningful result. Secondly, sufficient time is needed for the evaluation. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in the evaluation of the research premium. This had to be carried out very quickly over the summer until, I think, September – that was the deadline. This is not necessarily quality-enhancing. Of course, evaluations should not last forever, not a question, but there should already be an appropriate period in which the results will be presented. Thirdly, and this is a very important point that I would like to give you, we need a public tender for this evaluation. We were below €100 000 in the evaluation of the research premium, but this simply does not ensure the quality of the evaluation of research funding. In view of this fragmented structure, we simply need something more extensive. I would really like to ask you to support the fact that this evaluation is actually in line with the standards. I would like to address another point: Part of this debate is always the question of which areas the respective funding goes. In international comparison, we have very strongly applied research funding, but very weak basic research funding. The FWF has available €200 million – currently even less, it is only € 175 million for 2017. The National Fund of Switzerland, which is the equivalent, has the fourfold available. If we want to focus on innovation leaders in Switzerland, we also need to finance basic research more effectively. Finally, I would like to underline the request that my colleague Ruperta Lichtenecker has already made: We need to stop this fragmentation and make it more transparent and comprehensible – including for the researchers who need the project funds – a research funding law. I would ask you to agree to our request here and today, so that we can work together to make this area sound in future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47847	Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47868	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Mobility policy has many partners, and the countries, municipalities and, of course, the Ministers for Infrastructure are required. With this budget proposal, the Minister also clearly shows that he understands how to communicate with the countries and the communities and thus ultimately implement a successful policy. We see from a number of examples that roads as well as rail are the life lines for many regions throughout the country. Take, as an example, the A 5 with which you can perfectly open up the wine district and provide a discharge for Poysdorf in Lower Austria, or the Tullnerfeld station, through which an entire region has developed as much as possible thanks to its modern infrastructure and which has increased the quality of life for the people! This goal has been best achieved. The infrastructure is also a topic of the future: In the field of electromobility, it is about taking further steps, which can also be found in the budget. To do this, appropriate charging infrastructures need to be rebuilt; there is much to do. And I believe – it has been mentioned before – that there is a lot of capital in this area, especially in the urban environment. As an Austrian example, we can draw out Graz when it comes to the question of how electromobility should be introduced into the city. Something that affects rural areas in particular is digital change in the future. Unfortunately, God almost opens up an infrastructure between city and country. If we were not able to put the broadband billions in motion in the same way, we would have a problem. In this context, however, the Minister is a good pioneer in order to speed up processes that have gone a little too late in the past. This will be crucial for the future of rural areas and for the equality of all citizens in Austria, whether in the city or in the countryside.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47908	Mrs Schimanek's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47930	Mr President. Minister! You said in your statement, Minister, that Austria is leading important strategic veins in Europe. As a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, I am of course in favour of the Brenner Base Tunnel, which is a major European project, and its gateways. In May 2009, a contract was signed by the states of Austria, Germany, Italy and the countries of Bavaria, Tyrol, South Tyrol, Trento and Verona. The current ÖBB framework by 2022 shows construction costs for the Brenner base tunnel amounting to € 8.7 billion. Why do I tell you something old-fashioned? – For the following simple reason: On Friday last week I was at the regional meeting of the project advisory board for the Brenner-Basistunnel line in Germany and was already somewhat amazed at the fact that you have been doing corridor network analyses in Germany until now, and is not yet further. The mayor of Rosenheim Gabriele Bauer, the Bundestag member Daniela Ludwig, but also the EU member Maria Noichl expressed great concerns about the access routes, as Germany had started planning for the Brenner-Base Tunnel-Invasions much too late. According to the planning process, which has been distributed in Rosenheim, construction operations will start sometime from 2030. I think that the Members of Parliament in Germany are right that this is far too late. It was also mentioned there that we have made a lot of investments in this route in Austria, but the problem has not yet been identified as such in Italy and Germany. It was also mentioned that it is to be hoped – Mr Minister, you mentioned Switzerland – that we do not have a Swiss fate, namely that, as is the case now with the Gotthard Tunnel, we still have to pay a little more so that the access lines of the Brenner Base Tunnel can be completed. I think we still have a lot to do. I would also ask you to inform Parliament and us Tyroleans about progress. Of course, we would also like to know what is happening in the other countries, because if only now the construction site in South Tyrol has been exonerated, then, I think, we also need a lot of follow-up. Yes, infrastructure measures are important, but if they are put in the middle of Europe, they should not only concern us but also the other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47969	Next, Mr Magistrate. Smart to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e47990	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! In the short term, I would like to address two or three criticisms expressed by the opposition. On the one hand, I would like to say that I am pleased as a social democrat that NEOS has also made a confession that the public hand, the state, should invest. What I'm not glad about is that there's been a hidden attack on the ÖBB sanctions again. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Look The figures are as follows: Coverage in the field of item 17.3 in the field of ÖBB 18.8 and in the field of national teachers 17.8. These are all numbers from the BMF. The criticism of the ÖBB-pensions is at least against the number structure. [[Abg. Neubauer: Very bad!]] In other words, Please leave the ÖBB-pensions alone. As Mr Hagen is not present now, I would just like to say that in the area of road infrastructure, as far as ASFINAG is concerned, we are talking about a closed system, ultimately also about a closed financing cycle, and therefore one cannot pick out some example from the toll. I just wanted to say briefly to my colleague, jewelry beater: Each new project, the broadband initiative keyword, has its initial difficulties. I do not fully share your criticism, because the office was upgraded and there were evaluations and inputs in the area of the next calls. I am saying that the mayors, together with the partners in industry and technology, are also invited to be active. Since we are holding a budget debate, I do not wish to mention that the general budget is bringing a significant turnaround towards investment, i.e. € 800 million more in additional investment – ladies and gentlemen, a turnaround from saving to investing. Allow me to comment with the twinkling of eyes: I know what I'm talking about, and I know what it means to work with a savings budget in the public sector. We are investing heavily again, and I am delighted, Mr Federal Minister, to have over 40 000 railway infrastructure jobs and 30 000 broadband-billion jobs, because in times like these, these are important signals from the public sector. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höbart and Mr Neubauer.]] Finally, as a Member of Parliament, who comes from Styria – Mr Kucher has already mentioned it in relation to Carinthia – I would like to express my warm thanks for the Silicon Austria initiative. This initiative builds on the Micro Electronic Cluster – a great project, a useful addition. – Thank you very much and thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48033	The next item is the speech by Mr Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48054	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I listened very carefully to Mr Heinzl earlier when he explained to us what was all in the pipeline. You have said that 3 billion € are mainly invested in the railway. But we must be quite honest: What is invested in? – In the premium lines south and west railways. If you look at what is already in the railway sector alone Lower Austria has happened: Mr Heinzl, you know, 26 out of 28 runways have been closed. I am absolutely clear that 60 percent of the funds can still be invested in the stocks, as there are no more side-lines! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: The post coach of Emperor Franz Joseph is also there!]] Mr Heinzl, one further question: You put your speech in the copiers every year. Mr Heinzl, if you say that so much is being invested in the railways, please explain to me the following – the three predecessors of Mr Verkehrsminister have remained responsible for me –: How can it be justified to build an almost 20 km long noise protection wall between freight trains and motorways when building freight trains in St. Pölten? – No one has yet explained that to me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] And I don't know what lobbyist came from the noise protection club, but so far, no one has been able to explain it to me meaningfully. [[Abg. Heinzl: Who is going to win here? I'll ask you that!]] These are your investments in St. Pölten, Mr. Heinzl; that is your constituency. You have previously said that transport policy is living environmental policy and social policy. One question: If I force two thirds of Lower Austria to switch to individual transport because there is no public transport anymore – is environmental policy, is social policy? – That’s my question to you! In another case, I have to give colleagues jewelry beaters completely right. [[Calls and calls between Abg. Heinzl and representatives of the FPÖ.]] – Mr colleague, do not make fun of Hasendorf, we are coming to do so right now. I'm on the subject of broadband. College Schmuckenschlager has already said it: From the social democratic side, we have been listening for years to investments in broadband. There are always these imaginary broadband billions, of which some €20 million have been flown up to now, Mr President. In St. Pölten I do myself easily, but in the rural space the money has not yet arrived. [[Further calls and calls between Abg. Heinzl and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Heinzl, don't get upset! We are in the broadband sector final light in Europe. I hope that we can bring together an shoulder closure and really even invest and grow the €300 million that are budgeted. In conclusion: Mr Heinzl – I think the S 34 is your body and life project – because we always hear it is invested in the road network, in S 34, I say every year, it should be called S 43, because in the many years when we are already talking about whether it is being built or not, we could have built the North motorway three times, we see the implementation period. [[Abg. Heinzl: Have you ever heard of environmental impact assessments?- Oh, my God!]] So, my colleague Heinzl, listen. With the Sunday speeches, please! Don't tell us every year what doesn't happen, but do, do, build, invest in rural areas and don't let the people of the country die! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48147	Next, Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48169	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The topic of digitalization has already been addressed several times today. I think we all agree that digitisation will greatly shape the location of Austria in the future, and it must be our goal to make Austria one of the leading countries in this area. The basic requirement for this is a fast Internet connection. Austria can only succeed in international competition if we can also provide an appropriate infrastructure, and that is comprehensive. Especially for rural areas, broadband development is particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, in the future the attractiveness of rural areas is very much related to the supply of high-speed Internet. I am thinking about the compatibility of family and work, I am thinking of women's jobs, I am thinking of job opportunities in the home office sector – many aspects that only work if we have adequate broadband speeds. It is clear that if this does not happen in rural areas, then there are enormous disadvantages. For me, I welcome the fact that the Austrian Federal Government, with its digital offensive, is forcing the expansion of the comprehensive high-performance Internet and budgeting the funds accordingly – € 110 million as part of the broadband billion. Mr President, I should like to ask you, as the decision in this House is, to take appropriate measures to ensure that these funds can be collected as unbureaucratic as possible. The expansion of the high-speed Internet is just as important as all other infrastructure measures. Let us see that we will be European leaders in this area! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48208	Next, Mr Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48229	Mr President. High house! Minister! It was a very interesting discussion between the two best friends in the House – my highly esteemed State Party Secretary, honourable Member Hafenecker, and Mr Heinzl. I would suggest maybe to sing “True friendship should not be weakened” together so that we can bring in a little bit of the joke factor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I still have to talk to my colleagues and ask him if he's even funny about that. [[Calls and calls between Abg. Heinzl and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to continue the discussion on the technology and research budget and to add something that I have already given the best in the field of business: It is clear to us, of course, that a few billions more are foreseen in the budget. For us, however, it is a continuation of what is so beautifully said, “more of the same. ” It's too little steam to feel too little punch in this budget. The goal must ultimately be – on which we should finally reach agreement – that we get away from the average or partly from below the mean. As the Republic of Austria, we need to reorient ourselves to the excellence. It is the minimum that in Europe, within the European Union, we do not move somewhere in the lower middle, but at last we are among the first ten, the first five. That must be our goal. That's what it means to invest wisely – no question. Mr Hafenecker has already mentioned it: We are at Telekom's last expenditure, not somewhere in the middle field, but we are in the final place as far as Deutsche Telekom's expenditure is concerned – 0.23 percent in relation to gross domestic product. The top-ranking countries, for example Norway, have threefold investment capital. We are also far too low for per capita expenditure. In order to achieve the EU cut, we need to invest 30 percent more, and to reach the level of the United States of America, the USA, we need to invest 280 percent more. These are countries and territories where we have to focus. I'll get back together. Our goal must be to be innovation leader. I've heard this for years. That's where we want to go, but we think it's just too little, even if there are initiatives with Silicon Austria and Lakeside, of course. Interestingly, Lakeside was developed in Carinthia by Captain Haider at the time. [[Abg. Obernoster: Thank God as you know the story!]] There must be several initiatives to finally get where we want to go, namely to the Innovation Leaders.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48276	Mr Bacher has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48313	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The budget shows that BMVIT research and innovation have an important place. This is important and good because research is bringing progress. Why? – Because research and innovation not only lead to new products, but also to progress, such as the Digitalization, in our country facilitation is created in the daily lives of the population. This includes facilitation through services, such as in the field of eGovernment and online services. This is mainly about increasing the quality of life, especially in areas such as the Pinzgau, the Pongau or the Lungau – in my region. Not least thanks to broadband development in these regions, digital offers are a great help and relief for many things in everyday life. In the area of transport infrastructure, very many measures are also being taken. I believe that this will also require additional framework conditions, such as in the area of transport associations. I've been working on this subject for some time. There are very many problems with the transport associations. I think there's a lot of cooking going on here, and we should start here to make some improvements. For example, always a problem with cross-border transport: A ticket is not valid throughout; from the ticket for the dog suddenly a ticket for the bicycle will be taken. These are all things we are talking about and we can take measures to improve our people outside the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48349	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48370	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the Federal Estimate 2017, Division 34 and 41, Transport: Mr Minister, your vision of zero road fatality is to be welcomed and supported. The ASFINAG is on a good path as far as the debt is concerned, it is on a so-called decommitment rate, according to the Minister responsible. Therefore, the price of the motorway vignette remains the same. – Let’s hope! In 2018, the electronic vignette will be introduced, which will no longer cost more than the current one. That would be a right approach and necessary, because I believe – it was also mentioned by Mr Hagen – that the commuters should not become the milk cow of the nation. ÖBB investments: These are extremely long-term and also extremely important for Austria. Infrastructural expenditure for the ÖBB increased from €1.8 billion in 2017 to €2.7 billion in 2021. We must not forget the regional railways and their infrastructure, and, of course, Mr Minister, everything is very important as far as accessibility and their implementation for our disabled people is concerned; accessibility should be extended so that these people can move on accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48404	Mr Grillitsch has now come to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48425	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For now, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Federal Minister for the fact that the ASFINAG has finally presented the S 36 from Jüdenburg to Scheifling for the full expansion in this region. It is a very important point for the economic location in the upper Murtal, for the districts of Jüdenburg and Knittelfeld and also to start the gap towards the south. Of course, there will be many discussions, as we know: How is the trail really going? Nevertheless, Mr Federal Minister, I think it was crucial that you also said to the ASFINAG: There are 40 mayors from Jüdenburg to Klagenfurt, who are elected by the people of the regions – the legitimate representatives of the population – and want this extension S 36/S 37. I would like to thank you that this is now possible because we need it – I also say this on behalf of the mayor of St. Veit on the Glan, Gerhard Mock, who is involved in this initiative – because this is important for the economic location of Styria/Kärnten across countries. [[Abg. Schönegger: cross-party!]] – Cross-party, of course. Thank you, Bernd Schönegger, for this important note! The second essential issue for these regions and their economic location – for rural regions in general – is the expansion of broadband and fiber optics, ladies and gentlemen. I think every Austrian and every Austrian, no matter where he or she is at home – whether in the city or in the country – has the indivisible claim that this important technology, this most important motorway, namely the data highway, is available everywhere in Austria to bring work, purchasing power and income to the regions. Therefore, Mr Federal Minister, I am very glad that you have over € 1 billion and that we are now, together with the countries and the municipalities, trying to advance this expansion of fiber optic wiring in the regions. Ladies and gentlemen, in Styria, an initiative has now been presented under the leadership of our head of state Hermann Schützenhofer, which is available in the Styria by 2020 in all municipalities 100 megabits per second. This is a clear objective, an attainable goal, if all stand on this issue without party darkness, so that the regions live and flourish.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48462	Mr Schmid has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48483	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Budgeting traffic: In principle, it is necessary to distinguish between public and individual transport. The decisive difference lies in direct and indirect financing, with a multi-tax increase in the amount of public transport in the form of a subsidy policy for individual transport. Public transport is undisputed as a mass means of transport for people. However, the loading of freight onto the rails has significant disadvantages over the conventional truck transport. The just-in-time required by the economy is still not possible without loading traffic. This individual traffic is particularly affected by long-distance traffic and is taxed several times. Toll revenue is generally reserved for road maintenance and any necessary expansions, but flows into completely different channels. Another part of the budget is the promotion of e-mobility, with the traditional engine of the fight being announced – in my opinion, a wrong decision. It will definitely not be possible in the foreseeable future to drive e-mobility so far that it can replace conventional drive technology, let alone truck traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48513	Mr Mag. Unterrainer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48535	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! These days, a very sad natural phenomenon occurs in the Arctic. Unlike otherwise, the ice does not freeze at the moment, but there is dew, where otherwise everything is frozen. Climate change, and that is certain, is one of the biggest challenges we need to face globally and regionally. Not to be forgotten: Traffic is enormously hot upon the earth, and we do well to look around for alternatives – not tomorrow and not the day after – not because it is an ecological command, but because the switch to alternative renewable energy also offers a huge opportunity, and this one calls itself innovation. Those who now invest in the future will win, and those who come too late will punish the environment and the economy. Yesterday, Minister Leichtfried and Minister Rupprechter presented the e-mobility package, a package worth €72 million. This promotes the purchase of electric cars up to €4,000 and that of hybrid cars up to €1500. This is not enough to create incentives for the infrastructure to be built for it, for example the charging stations. In addition to automated driving, e-mobility is certainly the main topic of individual transport, not supporting car traffic, but actively changing it – at all, we invest heavily in public transport, especially in rail infrastructure. We expand the offer for passengers in the 2017 budget, better match the clock, and already the offer of the ÖBB is well accepted accordingly. With 1 427 kilometers we are at least European champions as far as the set kilometers are concerned. There is, as the Minister said, a country outside the European Union, which is even better than we are, namely Switzerland, and it must be our goal to achieve it or to exceed it. It is generously invested by public authorities. Whether ASFINAG, ÖBB, BIG, they invest €4 billion together next year, and by 2022 – as the Minister has said – €15 billion will be invested in infrastructure. Taking into account the fact that between 12,000 and 15,000 jobs per billion, depending on the type of investment, are created, one can imagine and recognize the importance as a job engine. Let me conclude by saying: Climate change, as I described it earlier, is our responsibility. Not tomorrow, not the day after, but now it is important to act. This is precisely what will be taken into account in the 2017 budget for transport, innovation and technology. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48583	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48604	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since broadband has now fallen so often, I might take the time to make a statement on certain things. The broadband billion is indeed in the programme for several subdivisions. It is not true that we are only focusing on a kind of expansion, but there are just several things that have been addressed. The main challenge, of course, is: How is broadband connection to go where profit-oriented companies would not otherwise go? The answer was to provide subsidies in various sub-areas, grants in the field of empty pipe, subsidies for further expansion, subsidies in the areas of backhaul and AT:net. We have already reached relatively far with these measures, but they could also reach their limits, and it might also be possible to have direct investment once. But we're not that far yet. Thankfully, the House has also commissioned us to evaluate things. The challenge is to act as flatly as possible and across the board. This is quite clear from the example of Hasendorf. Ladies and gentlemen, there are not only the mentioned Hasendorf in Austria, that is, the Hasendorf in the district of Tulln, but there are only three villages in the Styria with the name Hasendorf, and there is also a Hasendorf in the Burgenland. In total, there are five Hasendorfs throughout Austria. The good news is: That Hasendorf, which Mr Hafenecker has referred to, is already participating in the broadband billion programme. There has been a request for support of €300 000, and there will be a very acceptable solution, I think. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48642	Mr Mag. Lettuce That's what I'm talking about now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48663	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! BMVIT will spend more than €431 million on research and innovation funding next year. That's very pleasing. There is an increase of 0.8 percent. I have already mentioned it in my previous speech: The framework conditions under which this budget has been implemented were not the simplest. It is all the more gratifying that here, even if a small one, there is a plus in total of € 431 million. The majority of these expenditures go to the so-called FTI funding, i.e. research, technology and innovation programmes. About €66 million go to the FTI infrastructure, almost €30 million to the administration, but the majority, about €264 million, is invested by companies in innovation and research. This makes our businesses fit for the future, competitive and gives them opportunities to stand on the international markets – an important topic because the international markets are, of course, constantly changing. The topic of digitalization has been addressed more often today. My appeal is to address digitization positively. The digitization is Do not stop. I'm allowed to borrow from Jörn Werner here – this is the CEO of A.T.U., who drew the picture of a wave in his lecture at the Tirol Economic Forum almost two weeks ago, where the surfer tries to ride this wave so that he stays above – if not, he's just torn down. Of course, it's not going down to bring us digitalization, it's supposed to show: You have to make the most of it, you don't have to stop it. With the framework conditions that we can set and which have already been created by the Federal Government with initiatives such as the Open Innovation Strategy or with the Digital Roadmap, the government, on the part of the legislator, makes itself fit. It is important here to take even more measures to meet this challenge. I would like to invite you to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48702	Mr Keck has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48724	Mr President. Federal Minister! The budget in the transport resort again provides for some important projects in the field of flood protection, ladies and gentlemen. This is particularly important to me as the Upper Austrian. Think back to 2013, when Upper Austria, with its many large and smaller rivers, repeatedly became victims of such disasters! Unfortunately, in the face of climate change and the increase in the frequency of extreme weather events, it will not be possible to prevent these disasters from happening in the future. It is therefore all the more important that we protect ourselves from such natural disasters. This concern is also reflected in the transport resort. Let me address some of the proposed safeguard measures provided for in this budget. In the so-called St. Georgen Bay – that is where the caste flows into the Danube – €11.67 million will be invested in a comprehensive project that also concerns the hinterland. One of the biggest projects is certainly the dam in the Machland north of the Danube. Fortunately, the dam is already completed there, but the funding is still running until 2021 and is also taken into account in the 2017 budget. Another major project is the Eferdinger Becken. Depending on the circumstances and needs, individual solutions are provided to reduce or eliminate flood risk. Cost point for these important measures is € 125 million. In the short term, perhaps a few more figures and facts on flood protection in Upper Austria: In the Aistdamm and Saxe-Grein-Hirschenau projects, another €4.67 million is spent on the Enghagen project in Enns, €10.44 million and so on. There are still many projects that I can't list all in the short of time and which I can't go into either. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government – and in particular the Minister of Transport – sets out good and important measures in the area of flood protection, which are essential for those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48767	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr. Pfurtscheller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48793	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewer! “I believe the car industry will change more in the next five to 10 years than it has in the last 50.” – This statement comes from Mary Barra, Chairman and CEO of General Motors, and she is right! Due to the climate targets of Paris, we need to save 40 percent of greenhouse gases by 2030. A large proportion of this will have to do with road transport, and therefore the drive of cars and trucks will have to change fundamentally over the next few years. In order to meet the climate targets, ambitious measures are needed, so I very much welcome – as some of my previous speakers have already said – the package of actions presented yesterday by our two ministers Rupprechter and Leichfried for the promotion of e-mobility. We are already promoting e-mobility: NoVA is not allowed to buy an e-car that is not taxed at the car, it is exempt from the subject-matter, and in addition, the purchase of an e-car is pre-tax deductible. When further e-cars are purchased, we beat several flies with one flap: It is Austrian energy in the tank, the transport becomes locally emission-free and quiet, the engines are much more efficient and the maintenance costs are reduced. The new action package aims to motivate individuals, businesses and municipalities to take the risk of moving to e-mobility. In addition, the e-cars are supposed to have green markings and thus have advantages when parking and other things. As a central task, I see for us above all the provision of the comprehensive charging infrastructure, because only when the drivers find chargers everywhere will they be able to access the e-cars. In parallel to this start-up package, however, agreements must also be reached with housing providers, housing cooperatives et cetera, so that as many power tanks as possible can be retrofitted. I am convinced that a successful transition to emission-free transport is one of the biggest challenges for the future in Austria. We must be able to create social tensions without harming the economy and consumers. It's an exciting challenge. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48831	Mr Ing. Vogl is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48852	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Let me focus briefly on the expansion of the Austrian Federal Railways! We discussed very intensively last week in the budget consultations, both on the pre-loads and on the use of the funds used. I am particularly pleased that we have not discussed the level of investment, but where these investments can be used effectively. If you remember now, perhaps about 20, 25 years old, then the theme of Bahn then had a completely different significance in our society. Whoever drove the train couldn't afford a car. Railing was not really something that was attractive, with which one was in the middle of society. Due to the expansion measures undertaken – especially on the west railway line – in the area of infrastructure and railway equipment, but also in the area of renewal of railway stations it is today chic, is It's sexy to drive a train. It's something that comes in society. Suddenly, we also note that the expansion of the railway infrastructure is something for which we are all committed and whose expansion we are demanding in our region. I think that's the good thing, we've managed that the railway is back in the middle of society, that the railway will be the transport of the future, that a traffic solution in which the train does not occur is unthinkable for many of us, I think. Today, a comparison has already been drawn with the Federal Republic of Germany: The comparison makes you sure! Drive from Linz to Vienna and then try to drive from Linz to Munich. I wish you a lot of pleasure! You will notice what has happened in Austria in the last ten to 15 years. The difference is moving in dimensions, as the Germans really have to go and invest a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48888	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48910	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! “The best way to predict the future is to shape it.” In the new programme of the Federal Government, in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, some future topics such as the Internet of Things, Industry 4.0, the working world 4.0, broadband initiative and electromobility are depicted. I would like to comment briefly on two topics: Firstly, very briefly on the subject of broadband: I would like to join with what my previous speakers have already said, but still briefly address the model Lower Austria. I come from a pilot region, and if we bring the 40 percent connection rate in the next few weeks, we have a 100 percent expansion by mid 2018. So there was really speed. The special feature of the model Lower Austria is the fact that the passive infrastructure remains in public ownership. Broadband is seen as water supply, waste water disposal and roads, and therefore passive infrastructure remains in public ownership. The competition will then take place at the provider level. We also need competition, we want high quality, we want good prices. The model Lower Austria is, I think, really exemplary on the road. I am very pleased if we can now implement this 100 percent supply in the model region. The whole model should then be rolled out to the whole of Lower Austria by 2025 and 2030 respectively. Secondly, very briefly on the subject of electromobility: For me personally, this is also a very important topic for the future. It is a very ambitious goal to increase the number of electric cars on Austria's roads from 8 000 to 200 000 currently. It is an important contribution to achieving the climate objectives of Paris, and it is a very concrete contribution. There we are no longer in a strategic, virtual discussion, but in a very concrete one, and each one can contribute to it. The state does a lot: In the business field, there are tax advantages in the pre-tax deduction, there is no reference costs for employees, and there is now God thanks to this investment premium. Electric cars are of course a little more expensive than cars with combustion engines, but there are fewer taxes, there is no motor insurance tax and some more. The programmes are set up, now only more so to use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48952	The next item is Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e48973	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the 2017 research, innovation and technology budget, we are of course talking about now existing jobs, but also about those jobs that will be created in the future. We currently have the situation that these jobs are male dominated. In short: There are too few researchers in Austria! Now you can just take it as God-given, or you can take measures to change it. Ladies and gentlemen, since this ministry, beginning with Minister Doris Bures, is being led socially democratically, there are measures. In the Ministry there is a funding programme called “measures to promote human potential”. There are different approaches to how you can gain young people, but above all also researchers for this sector, for example through internships for students. Children are curious, and you have to promote it even more, because they are enthusiastic about it. That's our future, and that needs to be done. - That's what's done. A second example to facilitate entry into applied research is FEMtech internships for students. Per month and per internship, this is supported by 1,600 €. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures are spent at €7 million. This is good and appropriate, but you can wish that the amount will be increased in the coming years. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49010	The next item is the speech by Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49031	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Leichtfried and Mr Doskozil! The future, as today mentioned several times, is called digitalization. The future is called digital everyday life. This trend is also reflected in the current budget. Appreciated ladies and gentlemen, one or the other may still remember dial telephony in the nineties, followed by mobile phone and the Internet. At the time, a flat rate in the private sector was not very easy to finance. Today, this is different, the new technologies have become a leader, and society is on its way to the digital world – the whole society. I say 'on the way' because there are still people who are partially excluded from these modern achievements. Our goal must be that both the elderly and the young, both financially better and financially, can be part of the whole and benefit from this technology, especially in the urban and rural areas. This requires money and goals, as shown in the budget. If you look at the phone today and read LTE, then you know that the data transfer is currently very fleeting. But the new technology is at the doorstep, 5G comes to us at rapid speed, and we must be equipped for that. We need to enable a comprehensive broadband development in the Republic. I would also like to mention that the first successes are already visible. I too come from a rural region in the forest district. My region is also a pilot project in Lower Austria, and we can truly say with pride that broadband development is progressing rapidly in our region. In addition, first successes could be achieved, as a company migration could be prevented in the meantime. Mr. Minister, we are on the right track. Let's stay on it! A few final words on the transport infrastructure in the area of rail: Mr Minister, I really support your initiatives to develop rail infrastructure with full commitment. Today, the concept of the vein of life in the regions has been mentioned several times. I would also like to stress this concept once again: The Lebensader in the northern Lower Austria – in my native region, the Waldviertel – is the Franz-Josefs-Bahn. It is a finished project for negotiation at the table. Mr. Minister, digitization has arrived in the rural region of the forest district. I hope the implementation of the Franz-Josefs-Bahn project is the next great achievement. – Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49073	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on these topics are thus complete. [[14:52:43]] UG 14: Military Affairs and Sport
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49095	We are now entering into the negotiation of sub-division 14. Mr Bösch was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49119	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Today, we are discussing the 2017 military budget. During negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, you succeeded in winning a special investment of up to EUR 1 to EUR 1 billion by 2020. You will be able to spend about 200 to 250 million euros for the Austrian federal army next year. Some 2.2 billion euros will be available for the German army. This is about 0.6 percent of the gross domestic product. – I am therefore saying “in about” because there are different approaches to the calculation of these figures and because, of course, there will be a need for an authorisation for various sums to make them even liquid. You have clearly formulated the objectives of impact in your budget documents. First of all, they want to secure the defence of the state. Secondly, they want to ensure disaster relief and the protection of critical infrastructure. Thirdly, they want to ensure international efforts and, in other points, continue to strengthen the Austrian federal army as an attractive employer. They have introduced new top-notch structures: the command of air forces, the command of military forces, the command of logistics and the command of leadership support. They are assigned to troops: the command of mountain combat, the command of fast deployments, a “heavy brigade” and a “light brigade”. In each federal state, they will allocate a present hunter battalion next to the Milizbataillon and a Pi company. They will also set up various military units in the coming years. Mr Federal Minister, these are very ambitious goals you are setting out and starting with this new budget, with this one budget year, which is the first year for which you bear responsibility. In my opinion, it will be crucial for all these associations and units you are planning to set up staff. It will be crucial that more basic service providers can be won. It will be crucial that you can move the capable young man to do the military service. It will be crucial that more officers than group commanders can be won and therefore the federal army will become a more attractive employer as a whole. Mr Federal Minister, you have presented a security package during this debate over the past few months, in which you want to anchor the comprehensive security precautions in which you want to install a security cabinet and in which you also want to establish and enhance the appreciation of the role of the German army in protecting critical infrastructure and in using it against terrorist attacks. In this area, I also think it is necessary to strengthen certain areas which are not legally clear, which also need to be subject to constitutional support, and to ensure the legal basis for this. However, one should not invent new, original tasks for the Austrian federal army, but ensure that the previous tasks – and I have called them – can be done sufficiently and decently as an Austrian federal army. With your plan to redefine the German army, which you have already implemented, you have dissolved the previous structure and replaced it with the new one. However, the new structure – up to a certain percentage – is still a shadow army. We can, for example, resolve the 6th. Jägerbrigade does not see replaced by the command Mountain Battle because far too few forces are planned to carry out these tasks. That is why we believe that: You must set in motion a comprehensive advertising of personnel, Minister of State. Not only do you have to make the decision for military service – as I have already said – but you also have to make the workplace attractive. They also need continuous and predictable funding in the development of the Austrian Federal Government for the next years. We will ensure that the negotiations on the Financial Framework Act take account of it in the coming year. We need a predictable planning horizon for the Austrian federal army – not only for the staff there, but also for ensuring the construction work that is important in terms of the security of the Republic. Mr. Federal Minister, you have succeeded in stopping the free fall of the Federal Government. We have reached a level that can be the level of reconstruction. We liberals want to support you in this reconstruction of the Austrian Federal Government, and we liberals – and not only us, but also President Norbert Hofer – want Austria to have a strong, efficient, modern federal army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49179	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49201	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! High house! As always, at the beginning of the budget debate, the question is: What is spent?, discussing, and then in each area – and that is always the same on each day of the negotiations – more money is required for each chapter. But I start with loud positive points: I would like to thank all the House's political groups once again. It is about a year ago when we made a historic decision to reevaluate the situation in Germany and abroad. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Thank you, Minister of State! When you came into office, you took this request very seriously and also put it into reality with us. If you look at the budget, you can see that we are on the right path. The more than 2.3 billion euros – I am saving myself now to mention the sums of all sub-divisions, because I believe that the speakers and the experts all know this externally – we must, I believe, meet with life together, that is no question at all. I'm the first to say that the equipment for each individual soldier must be guaranteed, it must be modern. Mobility, communication must be ensured. We simply need to achieve a team strength in all areas of the companies that are increasing battalion, so that we can easily fulfil the tasks that we have to expect today. All of this can be found in this budget. However, I would like to wait, because the soldiers did not have the opportunity – no more than the Minister – to wait until all of this is fulfilled, but to be properly used, to thank the soldiers and the entire staff of your resort for the work for the Austrians. A few weeks or months ago, the soldiers, together with the police, were actually operating around the clock to be present for the Austrians. Thank you very much! Congratulations on the achievements of the soldiers! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Pillow.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time – and you will find that in this budget – we must take into account modern development, technology and science. Just think of the cyber area! This is an area that brings entirely new challenges to colleagues, including the Ministry of the Interior, in your area, and, of course, as far as cyberdefence is concerned. [[Making a Hand Movement towards Federal Minister Doskozil]] We cannot solve all these problems from one day to the next, but I believe that the way we are going, Mr Bösch, we must continue to do so, we must develop it and we must see that, together with the department, we have the necessary decisions, but also the organisations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Actually, the steps that have been taken since the paper was finished and transmitted to us have been taken very quickly. You have to say that honestly, and you also have to congratulate it. That all organizational changes always need a certain amount of time is clear – most of it takes us too long, because if we agree on anything, we always believe, tomorrow it is implemented; but that is not the case in the real world. In any event, I believe that the achievements and the operational capacity of the Austrian Federal Government cannot be thought away, but can also not be disputed away. That is why I invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to do the best with us, with the entire security equipment and with the relevant resorts here in the house for our Austrians, because the health and well-being of our citizens are the highest good. In this sense: Congratulations!, and I invite you all to give this security budget your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49274	Next word reported: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49306	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, you've heard right: “Mr. Minister of the Interior!”, because I believe that Hans Peter Doskozil is by far the best Minister of the Interior of the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Knes.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] – Please log: Approval by the SPÖ. [[Abg. Schönegger: There's something wrong with you!]] This is very serious to me, because the Minister of the Interior, who for my inventive reasons is here as Minister of Defense, is concerned with the matter of internal security: combating terrorism, asylum, foreign affairs, immigration, crime and, and so on. In addition, proposals are now being made to guard embassies with the forces of the Ministry of Defence, to transport prisoners – likely to be They will soon be offering soldiers as a letter carrier in the service sector. Perhaps there are still soldiers that offer you as security personnel or bodyguards – there are still many possibilities. Obviously you have too many soldiers. - That's the point. You are right, of course, that you, as Minister of the Interior, who is called Minister of Defense, think: Well, if I have too many soldiers, I have to see that I'm kind of busy with them! – You do, and look at it as a high-ranking and really qualified police officer You, of course, in the field of internal security, whether there is anything that the Ministry of the Interior does not do well. And if you see if you find something that the Ministry of the Interior does not do well, you will find a number of areas. There would be a simple solution: They will become ministers of the interior, and Mr Sobotka will be anything else he can – I am not willing to discuss this for many reasons – and we are talking about who is willing to take over the Ministry of Defence as Minister of Defense. [[Call the SPÖ:Bodyguard!]] - That's one thing. The second is: It will be tricky in areas such as cybersecurity, and I will also tell you why – and this has very little to do with you personally – because one minister stands up after another and says: [[Abg. Wöginger: He's reuniting the government, isn't he?- Oh, my God!]] I'm personally taking care of cybersecurity now! – You are, I believe, the fourth or fifth Minister, who explains: Cybersecurity is my focus!, only one I have never seen before, namely a common focus. I asked the Minister of the Interior for Budgetary Consultation if he had agreed with you on the great military focus on cybersecurity. – It turned out: No, there is no agreement, nothing at all! Each minister is cybersecurity minister – side by side, against each other. That can't work! We do not have cybersecurity in this way, but a cyberchaos, and unfortunately – the bigger problem I have in the Ministry of the Interior – your department, Mr. Federal Minister, contributes to this. [[Call to the FPÖ:... Minister of Finance...!]] We will have to talk seriously about where that belongs, who does it properly, because in this cyber-competence of the various ministries one goes down, namely cybersecurity, about our companies, and that is a very important story. It doesn't work! We don't have cybersecurity, we only have budget posts and announcements. – We will come back to it and discuss it in all seriousness, because we owe it to the Austrian population and our companies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to something else, that is to say, to a joint request from the Members of Parliament, Mr Schieder, Mr Lopatka, Mr Pilz, Mr Rosary, Mr Strolz and Mr Lugar. I have no problem creating the connection with the subject of the negotiation, because it is arms exports, war materials exports and also the implementation of the war material law, in which the Ministry of State Defense is one of the three areas involved. I would like to make a few comments on the proposal: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's the request. However, I would also like to read a piece of the explanatory statement to you, because it is very important to me that we, as Members of this House, present to the National Council here in a very precise and detailed manner. "On the pretext of combating terrorism and dealing with those responsible for the coup experiment, democracy and the rule of law have been attacked and weakened in recent months. Tens of thousands of government officials, journalists, arrested many more. Mayors in many Kurdish communities were disbanded. Countless critical media and private associations have been closed or banned. Ten MEPs are in prison together with journalists and judges. Public statements from representatives of the ACP Government fear a rapid introduction of the death penalty. At the same time, Turkey is engaged in military activities in Syria and Northern Iraq. Representatives of the Turkish government are already talking about a large Turkish empire, which should include cities such as Mossul. Also within the Turkish state territory, the fight against terrorism against the civilian population is being carried out in Kurdish-inhabited areas." And for me, the most important sentence is: ‘The applicants are therefore convinced that, in these circumstances, no supplies of war material, defence goods or dual use goods may be made from Austria for military or police purposes.’ We want – and we all want to do so from all the political groups in this House! – that the Erdoğan regime from Austria does not receive any weapon, no military vehicle, and no military dual-use goods. We want this National Council to make it absolutely clear that it never again comes to the export of Austrian sniper rifles to special units of the Turkish police, with which today the Kurdish civilian population in eastern Turkey will be shot and with which countless people have been murdered in the east of Turkey. [[Congratulations with the Greens and Deputies Weninger and Schönegger.]] We do not want to do so, and we are the first state, not only the European Union, which clearly expressed its support for political sanctions in a first decision of the National Council and which today stands for first sanctions in this area in a second decision. And that's important because Erdoğan's a bit of a whistle to us when we're limited to political sanctions. This Turkish government only feels economic and military sanctions! And now we are dealing with the problem and making it clear that there is a first Member State of the European Union, which cannot be offered by Erdoğan anymore and which is also on the side of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. That is why this decision of the National Council is so important. I hope that other European Parliaments and the European Parliament will follow him. Europe is together strong enough to stand up against the Erdoğan regime and put it in the barriers. I would like to thank all the colleagues of the other political groups for doing so together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49443	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49519	Next, Mr Magistrate. Nice to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49540	Madam President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Peter Pilz is a phenomenon: With little interruptions he has been in the house since 1986. The Turkey proposal is of course carried by everyone, the part of your speech did of course little to the matter, but you are reinventing yourself here again and already distributing ministerial lists that do not exist – in so far as: Really phenomenal and respect for this achievement too! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as a spokesman for the Austrian People's Party's Defense, it is a special pleasure to stand here today, because together we have succeeded something that we did not really think possible a year ago: We've made the turnaround in the state defense budget. I would like to thank once again all the colleagues who took part in the course of November. Based on a joint – Otto Pendlhat said – historical motion for a resolution we have managed to succeed in the turnaround and finally bring more resources into the state defense. I think that is also a good day because we have changed something here in dealing with the state defense, with the Austrian federal army. In recent years, we have always felt the feeling that we are in the opinion that we are telling the Federal Army: So much money is available, and for that you must hold the performance! – In reality, it is reversed: The performance of the federal army is determined – in the Federal Constitution, in the Wehrgesetz, in the Lisbon Treaty, in many other provisions – and in order to provide these services, we also need to ensure the funds together with the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Finance. This turnaround, I say it again, we made it. That's a good thing, and that's really gratifying. We managed – I'm going into numbers very briefly, because I mean, that's also important – to provide €70 million for investment, €15 million for the company, €65 million in addition for the personnel sector in the Federal Estimate 2017. These are very specific figures, quite specific measures, and many have already said that in this area: The staff sector is also important and crucial. Parliament has also given a clear signal: We have the There is a significant improvement in the salary and income situation for sub-offenders and batches, thus also opening the way for the German army to be perceived as an attractive employer. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my express thanks to the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Finance, also the Minister of the Interior, for the very good cooperation. In this good year in which we work, I have always been reminded of the well-functioning Styrian reform partnership: That's how politics must be! That's how government policy works, and I just thank you for that. I think people see this as well: This is an area of this government policy that works really well, and we owe it to the Austrians. Mr Minister, continue to be strong! They can be sure of the support of Parliament. Long live the Austrian federal army, long live the Republic of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49597	Mr Hable came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49619	Madam President. High house! Federal Minister! Estimated citizens! Big words have now been found: Turnaround, excellent government cooperation. – Well, let’s take a look at the facts! If we want to evaluate the 2017 budget for the federal army, we also need to look at the starting position and the starting position is the following: The German army has lost one third of its staff in recent years, 60 percent of its heavy weapons lost, there were kilometers of vehicle restrictions, fuel had to be rationed, ammunition lacked – thus the training was restricted. Summary: The German army has stood before the collapse in 2015 – that is fact. What are the causes of this? – This is not a coincidence, but it is the result of the national defence policy of the last 30 years. For 30 years it has been going downhill, and for 30 years there has been a single blow in the German army. In the last ten years alone, the German army had to pay €2 billion – a total annual budget! – save. No resort – not a single resort! – such savings and cuts have been exposed. Who is responsible for this policy? – Ministers of Defence of the last three decades, SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ. All right, now we have a trend change with this budget, but we also have to say at what level. It should be noted that: Yes, there is fuel again, the federal army can be made overtime again – so you can see that there is a bit of money again, but more is it not yet. Trending? - Yes, but at the lowest level. Otherwise, we have heard a lot of announcements, but as an Austrian learnt, we are always very skeptical when it comes to announcements from the Federal Government, and that is why we want to look at them more closely. Mr. Federal Minister, you announced an increase of €273 million in the spring of 2017. – In fact, it has now become 246 million €. From these € 246 million you should deduct € 73 million, because they go for assistance, that is, they do not go to the area of national defence at all. This will keep an increase of around €150 million for the next year. – Well, it’s better than nothing, and it’s better than a minus, but it’s a drop on the hot stone in view of how the state of the federal army actually is. Mr. Federal Minister, you announced something else in spring as a preview: From €1.74 billion investment in the German army by 2020 was there to read. – It was no longer possible to understand this by the graphics of the Ministry of Defence, as it was then only around one billion euros. Even if this were to happen by 2020 – and we all know that there is at least one national council election in between and that everything, all these announcements, can be back on track – we would not be at the level of 2011 until this year, which in my view is completely inadequate. Mr. Federal Minister, you have announced that 9 800 new jobs will be created by 2020. One can see from the 2017 budget that there is actually a minus of 94 planning points. They have also announced medially that a large new barracks should be created in Carinthia. When I spoke to the finance minister in the committee about it, he just smiled tiredly. He has said that it has already been there and has already been rejected. What I can see at the moment is announcements that already – probably even in the future – do not stand up to reality. And this is a pity, because, Mr Federal Minister, you would certainly also have any support from my side, including the NEOS Group for a serious and sustainable national defence policy. What I see, however, is also a lot of party policy tactics. What you do is security of messages. Tomorrow, you announce that the German army will be participating in prison transports in the future. – Yes, that’s all great; it has nothing to do with national defense! And the reason you do that is pure party policy tactics to be able to play for the SPÖ Interior Ministers – and that's the wrong way. [[Abg. Shopf: Safety!]] This has not deserved this country, it has not deserved security, nor have our soldiers deserved it. [[Abg. Schönegger: But it will...!]] Our country would have deserved a clear commitment to the defence of our country, to the security of our country. Our soldiers would have deserved it if they were to guarantee security for us, for our country, as well as security, namely security in the sense of complete and good equipment and safety through a reasonable, sustainable and sufficient budget. Unfortunately, I do not see anything of that except a few drops on the hot stone, but this sustainable, serious national defence policy should be in all our interests. That's my appeal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49668	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49690	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister of Sports! For three days we have been discussing the budget, and there are as always many legitimate questions. There are many terms that all have in mind: Sustainability, reliability, target orientation, transparency, verifiability. I would like to point out these important terms and the meaningful use of resources on the basis of a small area, namely, that the example of the project is healthy for children, where we are talking about up to €7 million a year, which the Minister of Sports makes available. I would also like to demonstrate, ladies and gentlemen, how important the work of the three umbrella organisations ASKÖ, ASVÖ and Sports Union is, and I would also like to show that the width of these three umbrella organisations offers freedom of choice for the communities, kindergartens and schools, which is also the main reason for the success story of children. Each cent is used transparently. We create many jobs. I would like to say a great thank you to the Minister of Sports, but above all to the many staff members who make a great job for our children and for their positive development every day throughout Austria. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steinacker.]] A few figures on this: For seven years we have been moving children healthyly on behalf of the Ministry of Sports in our portfolio. It was 351,328 units that we communicated. There is a complete IT documentation, for everyone understandable; this is also very important. It is evaluated externally – this request comes back again and again, also by colleagues of the opposition. Not we ourselves give the witness, but this is evaluated externally by SPIN Sport Innovation GmbH and Dr. Dirk Steinbach from Cologne. On the website children's health moving.at or fitsportaustria.at you can see this. I am also happy to provide more comprehensive documentation. For seven years, the teachers have given us the school grade 1.3 to 1.4 for all activities. I think that's very neat, too. There's been a project monitoring recently. We can limit the cost of this at 1 percent of the project costs. I think that is also evident. We were in 1 260 kindergartens, in 1 681 public schools, in a total of 6 943 groups and classes – multiplied by the number of children we play with the 15 free units – we motivate the smallest ones to play sports and to move, especially to the movement, and above all look at them as having fun on it. However, these are only 27 percent of kindergartens in Austria and only 55 percent of public schools in Austria. So we have air up and wildly determined not to let down with the support of the Sports Ministry. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In total, we have already been allowed to inspire 451,000 kindergarten children and 1.3 million people's students and have contact with 107,200 educators, which is also very important. We are currently moving at 2.5 million hours of movement. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, I would like to say: I am convinced that this is a very important and indispensable basic work of these three sports roof associations, which work together with the many clubs and exercise leaders up to the smallest municipality in our Republic. I also think that this is an enormously important preliminary work for the daily movement unit, and it is necessary to continue this consistently in all forms of school. The Minister, with his latest activity in Burgenland and with the unanimous approval of all national sports experts on Lake Faak, decided to roll out the model of the daily movement unit in Austria. I call all the federal states and the sports enthusiasts on, not to let down, but to really implement it and to accompany it seriously! Finally, we will tackle the great task of putting the current Federal Sports Promotion Act on new, better and modern feet together with the Minister of Sport in the sense of our associations and associations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49765	Mrs Weigerstorfer is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49786	Madam President. Minister! High house! We have two priorities in this debate: On the one hand, these are military matters, on the other hand, that's sport. I would like to make my contribution here, of course, to sport. Sports is usually a margin theme. It only focuses twice on the events, i.e. on international competitions or on the distribution of funding. With regard to cutting off the international competitions lately, especially in the summer sports, we have not been quite that successful. I can remember: London was, I think, a zero number. In Rio we had a bronze medal, but 20 million € were added to the Rio 2016 project. The question, of course, arises: Has the way in which the funding has gone optimal in the past? – I think a lot of resources have been lost on the way to sports. Dear Minister, at the end of August, you announced at an interview with the APA that you would like to radically change the sport promotion in Austria. In addition, top-level sport promotion should be depoliticized and put into the hands of an expert-led society in the future: “Money for top sports into a hand and not into a political hand, but into those of sports experts.” I would like to thank you for this sentence, which has now been delivered by me in the O-tone, but I will keep it in my mind, and I will remind you of it time and again. We support you in this respect where we can. I believe that this is a very good approach to a new orientation in sport promotion, a right step in the right direction. We only need to look into the past: The Court of Auditors has also repeatedly criticised the fact that award criteria were not always understandable that there were very many personal links between promoters and promoters. But let's look ahead! They have expressed a sentence that is very motivating us. Again: Our support you have, but we will also observe you as far as this is concerned. You have set a very sporty goal, and I think the competition policy against sport is one in which the sport loses. With this budget, you have a lot of resources for sports, and not only do I hope – we all hope together – that these resources will really arrive at sports. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49824	Mr Mag. Smoking is the next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49847	Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President. Dear Mr. Federal Chairman of the Green Peter Pilz! It may be that you'll be head of the federal government again soon. You'll read a lot of things in the newspapers. Today it is at least in the "Tyrol daily" that it depends a little on the Federal President's election whether the Greens want to look for a new Federal President. Maybe you can apply, then you'll be the Federal President again. I would like to come again briefly to the defence resort and the interior resort: These are two security areas, and the two ministers work together perfectly in the interests of security. This is actually positive, and so it should be in a federal government that we work closely, especially in the security field. Both ministers are doing excellent work. Now to the sports budget: I believe that, as in the previous year, it is really sufficient funds for the tasks in sport, as well as for large-scale sporting events, and also for the sports venue infrastructure. I would just like to point out briefly the upcoming major events in the sports sector: In 2017 in Schladming we have the Special Olympics, in my native Tyrol we have two big competitions, the Cycling World Cup 2018 and the Nordic Ski World Cup 2019. I find it particularly positive – that is what Hermann Krister referred to – to the budgetary focus on the movement of young people, because it is here in the Hohes Haus God thanks to a fractional concern that a sufficient range of movements is available for our children and young people, especially as regards broadband. You must be truly congratulated, Minister, for putting a priority in this matter in the budget, because I think that is exactly the right approach. In this context, however, I have at the same time a request to your colleague, Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid, and also to you: that you will continue to ensure in the future that our sports clubs in particular can easily come to schools – and, of course, the other way round – that the sports infrastructure at the schools is available to our sports clubs to the extent necessary. Maybe a short while on the topic of sport promotion: The Minister has presented comprehensive plans for optimizing the domestic sport structure and sport promotion. It is true that these should perhaps be optimised and reorientated. It is always important when it comes to discussing that the means provided for sport are then also targeted at our athletes. I just want to emphasize: We are ready to talk, we are ready to discuss this sport promotion again. I believe that we should not forget one thing, and that the principles of the autonomy of sport and, of course, of course, for us in the ÖVP very important, must be maintained in ensuring the voluntary structure even in the event of an optimization, in the event of a reorientation. Finally, I would like to say the following: It is perhaps some here in the Hohe Haus that my homeland or Innsbruck is considering an Olympic application for the year 2026 in the context of a feasibility study. I also ask you, Minister, to support you if it is so far, because I believe that if you have re-dimensioned sports major events such as Olympic Winter Games again, this would be a chance for you, for example, to set up a competition of this kind in Austria. As I said, This is now in discussion in Tyrol, but I ask you now, if there are results – and you are also involved – to support it. I would like to thank you and your employees for the good cooperation and I would like to end by welcoming a group of the Stiermark Economics Federation quite cordially here in the Hohe Haus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49898	Mr Dr. Fuchs is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49920	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Defence! High house! Values Advisors! The principle of legality is set out in Article 18(1). 1 Federal Constitutional Act and states that the entire state administration may only be exercised under the law. The Minister of Finance seems to have a problem with this constitutional principle. Laws adopted here in plenary are undermined by the Minister of Finance in execution, as shown by the following example: We've been here in plenary on 18 November. In May 2016, the amendment to the Federal Financial Act 2016 was passed. This novel provides for an overrun authorisation to UG 14, amounting to € 196 million for 2016. That is to say, we here in Parliament have decided that additional funds will be made available to the Federal Government this year totalling € 196 million. How many millions do you think, ladies and gentlemen, has the Minister of Finance already released €196 million? ==References== In November 2016, the Minister of Finance approved only € 29.125 million. We have decided €196 million, and only €29.125 million have just flown. That's not even 15 percent of the €196 million. As these non-consumed budget resources amounting to almost € 167 million are not eligible, they are definitely lost for the national defence budget. The March that the BMLVS is not able to consume the budget resources made available therefore lacks any basis. Rather, the BMF's tight corset or the disproportionately long processing duration of applications for over-use by the BMF is responsible for this. I am particularly concerned about Mr Financier's statement in the Committee on Budgets on 15 November. September 2016: He will do everything he can to prevent the excess powers from being exploited. The Minister of Finance seems to have misunderstanded: If Parliament decides to grant an overrun, the Minister of Finance must also implement this law. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] It is not the BMF's responsibility to reduce the legal overrun authorisation by administrative conditions or measures. This procedure of the BMF does not find legal coverage. The motto of budgetary reform, each Minister of Finance's own finance, is guided by the restrictive requirements of the BMF ad absurdum. The background to the Minister of Finance's restrictive requirements is that the counter-financing volume of the 2015/2016 tax reform has a massive gap because the Minister of Finance has calculated. However, this miscalculation of the Minister of Finance must not be due to the national defence budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schönegger: This is a history of robbers!]] We will take a very close look at whether the Minister of Finance will continue this delaying tactics to the national defence budget in 2017. I expect the Minister of Defence to have more emphasis on the Minister of Finance so that national defence can actually receive the budget that Parliament has decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e49968	The next item is Mrs Gessl-Ranftl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50000	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! The budget for national defence can be seen. It is a budget to put in place new security measures. At €2.3 billion, this budget is 12 percent higher than that of 2016. By 2019, €350 million has been agreed as a special investment programme, and from 2020 onwards, there will be € 266 million for special investments – a total of € 616 million. Values Advisors, you have heard a lot of numbers now, and you may ask yourself: Where does this money flow? How will this money be invested? – This money is well placed, this money is invested in a personnel offensive, in the protection of our soldiers, in protected vehicles, mobility, infrastructure and also cyber defence. [[Abg. Singer: No!]] [[Abg. Just don't!]] It is essential that the number of soldiers present in the framework is increased from 2 200 to 6 000 in the medium term. The German army needs competent and qualified commanders to meet the challenges of the future, so the German army must also become more attractive as an employer. Instead of the current time soldiers, a lifetime employment is possible in the future. A more attractive payment for group commanders will also be introduced from 2017. All of this has already been successful, so the number of applications with the German army has already increased by more than 30 percent. I now have the statistics of 14. ==References====External links== Since September, some 693 young men and women in Austria have been in the joint primary training for the sub-official or also as an officer. For me, it is very pleasing that this total number is very high. There are also 45 women who have opted for a career entry in the army. With these measures, the Austrian Federal Army is on a good path to a reliable and attractive employer. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget can address the current challenges of both security policy and migration policy as well as the tasks of disaster aid by the Austrian Federal Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50048	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50069	Madam President. Federal Minister! We jump back and forth between sports and military. Now we come back to the sport. It has been mentioned that there are improvements in the field of schools Let's go. There is now a pilot project in Burgenland, where the daily movement unit is once tested. I find this positive and hope that the plan, which will be implemented in the other federal states, will be implemented. I'm just wondering about one. For at least ten years, we have been discussing the question: Where is the largest sports infrastructure in Austria? - In schools. In the meantime, this part has been taken over by God thanks to Mr Schmid, who does not hold a committee meeting or a budget committee to ask this question. I wonder why you don't let anything more creativity take place and answer that question. About eight months a year there is school business, four months a year vacation, on weekends there is also no school business, so in about half of the days a year there is school lessons, within which there is a daily movement unit – perhaps once in the future. The question is: Why do I not use this infrastructure that is available with innovative models? Colleague Heinisch-Hosek is also here now, we have always held this debate, and there has never been the opportunity to bring school and sport together so far, also in cooperation with the clubs, that we are making innovative models to open the school infrastructure then when the students have the most time, namely in vacation. There is a large infrastructure there, but the schools are closed. Although we would also need care problems and innovative opportunities for child care during the holidays, there has never been the possibility in the past of bringing together the two ministries, bringing the associations together and exploiting these resources. I am convinced that with relatively little use of funds – liability issues are at the heart of it, clearly; the question of support for the associations should be clarified – could do a lot of things, unfortunately nothing can still be seen. It is just a shame that the largest sports infrastructure in the country, namely the schools, is empty half of the year and we have still not found any way to open this infrastructure with innovative models. That would be an important point for the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: Sports promotion. They have announced that there will be a major reform of sports promotion. Her predecessor, Minister Klug, whom I do not see now, has the Rio project in the run-up to the Olympic Games: € 20 million for the promotion of top sports. With the result that came out – the improvement from no medal to a bronze medal – we could have expected that this would also be a bit critically illuminated, as was the middle use. Interestingly, Mr Schrocksnadel, who has been used as coordinator – it could have been anyone else – said: Without these €20 million, it would have been much worse. He probably didn't mean that we didn't do a medal at all, but he meant that there was a lot going forward in the field of building new opportunities. One thing is interesting now, because one of these examples that has always been mentioned was sailing. Sailing in Austria is certainly the sport that really would have had the greatest chance to do more medals at Olympia. One has only to hear what the sailors have said, namely those who have had real chances: The one said that it had been told him before the Olympic Games by the Army Sports Association, either he made a medal or his career had ended, because he then flew out of the Army Sports Association – also a special form of motivation promotion before Olympic Games. Lara Vadlau, who was a medal candidate, has said that under these conditions she is considering whether she is continuing her career. – So the pilot project, which has been especially praised, sailing, has apparently not really occurred in the sense of the athletes from the reviews. Now we don't need to pretend that we ate the wisdom with the spoon and knew how it was automatically. To do no evaluation now, not to make an assessment of how these €20 million have been used, what success it has had or not, just to let it go without making an assessment, but I also think it is unscrupulous. I believe that we would need a transparent and comprehensible support structure there. Third point: Sport promotion new in the form of a GesmbH – under the keyword depoliticization. That sounds good, I'm just wondering – we've discussed it more often –: What about political responsibility? For I can already imagine how the answers of parliamentary questions will look at these issues. It's going to be called, that's an outsourced GesmbH, has nothing to do with us anymore. The entire sport promotion, which is available, will be outsourced, making it transparent, an evaluation will then be very difficult. The problem, which has already occurred, will also exist, because in this GesmbH, of course, there are also people and managers inside who come from a particular area. In fact, it should be that sport policy once sets out measures and defines the framework for where the promotions go. We of the Greens have made proposals after the Olympic Games, also going to think about what sports in Austria have a common potential, where one has a chance to be successful, because the first also means that the youth will be doing this sport, and secondly, because there are also links to tourism: Water sports such as sailing or canoeing – different forms where there is a chance to succeed in Austria. As a new discipline, the next Olympic Games include climbing where Austria has a pioneering role. But then one must also have the courage to say that the promotion with the casting can does not go out, but there are priorities. A structure in which the BSO determines with 60 professional associations who have the say where the voice of each individual association is needed, however, will make it very difficult for a pooling of resources, and there will be no use for the GesmbH either. So if you do that, I clearly call for a political definition, for which you must also have the courage to get away from the promotion of foundry and to invest in certain areas. In addition, I am in favour of abolishing the absurd concrete promotion combined with a ruin promotion in Austria. First, one promotes the construction of stadiums or infrastructure, that is concrete promotion. Afterwards, it is thought that they do not expect business, then they stand empty, become ruins, and then ruins are promoted. At the Klagenfurt Stadium, we were told at that time that it will be rebuilt, it can also be sold – now it is not used there. Or the Werner Schlager Academy in Schwechat –: on the run-out, not to continue. These are classical mispromotions in the sense that you have not seen whether what you promote there can also work in the medium term. That's just absurd. It belongs to a model where it is seen that only the things that are also portable in the medium and longer term and where the success is at least quite planned.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50154	Reported as follows: Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50175	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! “Whoever wants to build high towers needs to stay at the foundation for a long time.” – I do not quote a master builder, but the Austrian composer Anton Bruckner. The sports budget, Mr Federal Minister, we know, is very stable. At the same time, it ensures the width of the sports offer as well as the basis for top performance. I find the first assignment of the army sports centres to the sports budget entirely correct and important. Announced reform projects are due to the fact that they have not yet been negotiated, in this budget they do not really meet. Only the funds for the expansion of military sports sites from 192 to medium-term 250 and subsequently to 300 are included. The Federal Minister's reflections on the structure of funding as well as the comprehensive extension of the daily movement unit to compulsory schools from the school year 2017/18 have not yet been taken into account, which I very much regret. Mr. Federal Minister, you have inherited an old burden: this is the missing sports venue master plan. I trust you that you will be able to achieve a coordinated procedure with the federal and state governments. Only that makes sense. You have our support on this subject. We say yes to reforms in sport, but only together with those concerned. We from the ÖVP are focusing on the growing structures of the more than 15,000 sports clubs in Austria and the associations that care for them. This is a very important pillar of a functioning civil society, and it must be admittedly modernised and further strengthened by the reforms. The message must therefore say: All with, but nothing without the sport! Federal Minister! Also as my clear message: We are ready for the talks, we see that we are even better able to manage things than they are now regulated! The daily movement unit shows the performance potential of sports in Austria. The project to move children healthyly has been implemented with the support of the Breitensportsverband. Many sports units in kindergartens and public schools were thus established in Austria. The pilot project for a daily movement unit in Burgenland, which I very much welcome, was launched at 181 schools. As a partner of the sport, we of the Breitensportverbands have provided 35 highly trained trainers there in the shortest possible time. My goal as Vice-President of the Federal Sports Union is to create a win-win situation in this area: for the children who should have fun on the movement, for health and for our clubs in our country. So let me close with Rainhard Fendrich: “Es leben der Sport”.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50227	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50249	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Sport promotion is really the last bastion of the old All right, there's still red, black and something for everyone else. The payouts are in sport, I think, not really the interesting, but one should look at the source of the funds more closely. For reasons of caution, there are probably only €80 million for the special sport promotion, i.e. the real sport promotion, in the Federal Preview 2017. The revenue is well known for historical reasons under § 20 gambling law. These revenues have been higher and higher in recent years, but are not higher here again. In my opinion, this clearly contradicts the budgetary truthfulness. In answer to the question as to why this is so, you said that the exact amount of special German sport funding for the year 2017 was only available after the balance sheet of the Austrian lotteries. What is that, then, for a reason? The estimate has not been changed since 2011. It can't be that you haven't gotten a balance over the last six years from which you could have selected current figures. Or perhaps one could have asked the Minister of Finance if it was not better to estimate a different number. Then we also have another point that the budget service criticises: these are the deposits of €400 000 from the Bundessportanstalt GmbH, which are expected to not be included in the budget in exactly the same way. They make themselves poorer in the final effect than you are. These are the means that you could actually budget here, with the effect that you could allow other resources to flow into other budgets. But that's not how it is done. They also defend this in the answer to the question, but even the budget service of Parliament says that this does not correspond to the budgetary truth. From an answer to a request from me, we also know that the umbrella associations only have to charge € 6.5 million – and that is what you have to put in relation to the € 80 million of special sports promotion – only at administrative costs. We are affording an extremely expensive structure here, which leads to less and less money coming to the clubs. With the three umbrella associations, we only have the federal structure, since we do not yet look into the countries, it is true that all three have regional organizations again for all nine federal states. This is an inconceivably large administrative structure for this small budgetary area, which has been built up there, which actually does not have a real right of existence. Mr Christ said that every cent is transparent. - Where is it, please? Where are these funds transparently listed, where is it apparent which umbrella for what spends how much money? Of these 6,5 million € I know only because of one request. Mr Minister, after your announcement in August to reform the funding system and submit proposals over the next three weeks, you have now said in the Budget Committee that you must first negotiate with the umbrella organisations, and then perhaps Parliament will see something. This is a very strange way of understanding parliamentarianism. With Rudi Hundstorfer, the Federal Sports Organisation has now found a good support from the political power structures again, in order to maintain its own right of existence probably also for the future, because it actually has no function in the new funding structure since 2013. Mr Steinacker said that this is a functioning civil society. – This is nothing but a well-functioning functional society. This has nothing to do with the citizens, nothing to do with the general society that drives sports. We must urgently put the sports promotion system on new feet and make sport promotion possible regardless of the political umbrella organisations.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50309	Mr Schabhüttl is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50330	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear spectators here and at home! “Security is very, very important to people in our country.” Mr Pilz, that is exactly how I started the debate on the chapter on the interior. The Federal Ministry of Defence is also a security ministry, and with a significant increase in the budget we can improve a lot. The budget of €2.3 billion for national defence and sport has not been set up without reason. We therefore want to cover a great many tasks of the Federal Army, to increase staff and bring it back to the front with regard to necessary equipment. However, we can also expect a great deal from the German army: to secure the active state defense, to increase the number of soldiers in the armed forces by 6,000, and to guard the vulnerable, the critical infrastructure by twelve military units. We can also expect the German army to be ready to march within 24 hours in the use of disasters, in the assistance to deal with the migration situation. With the increased budget, we also ensure that a corresponding quota of peacekeeping and humanitarian operations abroad can be qualitatively involved. The increase in future opportunities and also the increase in entry salaries will further increase the attractiveness of the military profession. The German army is to and must become an even more attractive employer for women and men in the future. I would like to address one point in this budget debate. Even in difficult times, in times of saving, our soldiers always had a great attitude, they always acted very conscientiously and fulfilled the tasks they had. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Pendl.]] All the more so, I am glad that I felt it so right on many visits to barracks and even at events that a ruck passed through the team. In many discussions with soldiers, it came out clearly: For this Federal Army New, there is a responsible person for this positive development in the Federal Army, and that is Federal Minister Hans Peter Doskozil. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Estimated Minister, you have opened up a new perspective with your approach, with your competence, with your force of enforcement, not only to the German army and the soldiers, but thus also to give Austria a little more security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50400	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50421	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Today we heard from colleagues Schönegger that the turnaround had been achieved by the Austrian federal army. Turnaround is an expression of business administration, which describes that one comes from a loss zone into a profit zone. I don't think so. I would rather give my colleagues Bösch the right to: It has initially been stopped the free case of the Federal Government. However, we must make it clear that the 2017 budget of €2.3 billion is still below the 2013 budget of €2.5 billion. Speaking of a long-term positive development or of a turnaround, I think I'm an exaggeration. However, I believe that the Federal Minister has succeeded in stopping the free fall of the Federal Government. Let's look at the plans that are now known: The most massive changes in the organization are planned, which I have in principle a critical look at as an opposition politician, because the German army has already been burdened enough by permanent organisational reforms and organisational changes over the past 15 years. I think it would be useful in the long run to allow such a large organization to rest once. We are now experiencing a complete turnaround of the military commanders. These have been down in the last 15 years, I would say, and are now going up again. It will also be clear – and we will observe this very closely – to what extent the destruction of command structures is good in the long term. As an example, I take the military command, which, and this is my impression, has played quite well in recent years. We will see, as we have said, whether the destruction of these structures is really the final conclusion of wisdom. Mr Fuchs has already outlined the budgetary problems or disagreements with the Minister of Finance in connection with the overrun powers. We will look at exactly how these announcements and big plans, which are good for the reason, can actually be implemented. I'm just saying, if you think about it to the end, you already have to realize: There is a considerable need for human growth. If I look at the numbers of positions, both for the presence and for the model that currently has the militia, then I'm worried if these high, demanding and good plans will then be implemented in reality or if we end up with potemkinschen battalions to make a small comparison here. If you look at the budget figures by 2019, they are more or less constant for 2017, 2018 and 2019, only in 2020 will a large block come. As a politician, however, we know that 2020 is very far away. I would therefore also like to take a critical view of this as a fixture. In conclusion, three or four figures: The budget of 1 percent of GDP that we have been demanding for years would mean €3.6 billion, whereas we stand at €2.3 billion – that is not a significant gap. Switzerland has a budget of €4.8 billion and the Germans a budget of €37 billion. If one divides the simplicity half through ten, that would be 3.7 billion €, so significantly more resources. To talk about a turnaround here, and to do so as if everything were all right and the tasks were best financed, I therefore think that they are very exaggerating. That's why: The free fall has been stopped, this is a merit of the Federal Minister, but there is still a lot to be done. We liberals will continue to insist that we approach this budgetary resources of 1% of GDP. That would be €3.6 billion for our Austrian federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50476	Next, Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50498	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would not look at this as critical as Mr Kassager. I share the opinion of Mr Schönegger that the turnaround has been achieved, although I am aware that in recent years the German army really had to take a hard saving course. However, I do not hide that a new wind has come into the ministry with Federal Minister Doskozil, that he has given the force confidence again, and that of course the world-political, European development – under quotations – has “come” to him. We have a year with an extreme refugee crisis, with unbridled refugee flows behind us, we have a year with terrorist attacks behind us. All of this, of course, has sensitized the people of this country, and finally – Mr Otto Pendlhat said this – moved the House to make a six-party proposal a year ago, in which we have unisono expressed our support for the German army, because Austria must solve its own security and migration policy tasks alone, and not rely on other states. For this reason, it is important that the German army receive more money in the next few years, so it is important to launch a staff offensive, in which up to 9,800 people are admitted, that they are invested in the infrastructure, and that the Austrian federal army is presented to the people as an attractive employer. The closure of barracks, ladies and gentlemen, the sale of tanks and heavy weapons, all of which is now no longer a matter of the new threat. The time of speculating with the Austrian federal army is over, now is the time of muscle building. It is also clear that the failure of recent years cannot be solved in the short term. In my opinion, Austria will have to declare itself in the longer term where the way is going. Now, however, it can also be seen that the then Minister of the Interior Johanna Mikl- Leitner is right when she vehemently spoke against the sale of heavy weapons, and that her demand for a fortress of Europe for which she was still massively attacked was also correct. I think it is necessary that we continue to support the Austrian federal army. I think Minister Doskozil is doing very good work there and is recognized in the team. And I believe that it would be necessary for us to move our budget further up in the next few years. A certain Helmut Zilk wrote in his final report of the Federal Hegereforms Commission: "In my view, the current budget needs are about 1 % of the gross domestic product must be.” – We do not have to reinvent the wheel. I don't think Helmut Zilk is so wrong. If we approach this goal gradually, we are on a good path. We can't all be enchanted, but I think the way is the right one and the budget is also fine. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50546	Mr Walser spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50567	Madam President. Minister! High house! Recently it has been announced that you will still wonder what's going on. I myself have wondered what is going on, Minister, when I found out what plans you have with monuments at Heroes Square. However, I did not find any corresponding posts in the budget. In contrast to the announcements in the field of education, we have received cuts in the current budget, which we received yesterday. We have massive investments in security, in the area of the military. All that is possible, Minister, you have announced this by directions. You said you wanted to build a monument. I quote: “The military character of the monument [...] is intended to create a clear link to the military for the non-artificial viewer.” This instruction astounds – in a country where monuments are actually commissioned to artists who then decide for themselves what proposals they make. And artists, I think, have enough imagination, at least more than your officials. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] As an example, a monument from Sydney has been shown: huge patterns, lying, standing, as always. Something like this or anything else you want to have at Heroes Square. [[Abg. Wenninger: And where is the problem?]] Mr. Minister, what is particularly annoying in the Minutes, which the General Staff has written, is that this monument must also be “open to the future”. The term “favorable ” now clearly refers to people, mostly men who have died in military struggles, who have been shot or killed in other ways. It seems a bit strange in a country like Austria that you are here painting civil war fantasies like the liberal party leader. Or do you seriously have the idea that Austria will soon be involved in a military dispute with neighbouring countries? - We don't. [[Abg. Wenninger: Have you ever heard of international operations where what can happen?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] Mr. Minister, at Heldenplatz – and there is a lot of your ministry – a worthy monument of the Republic has been missing for years. It was your ministry that commissioned a scientific advisory board to make proposals for this. These proposals are available. You see a transformation of the unworthy commemorative situation in the crypt. And this transformation of this unworthy commemorative situation is to be addressed. The members of this scientific advisory board now have great concerns. I quote Heidemarie Uhl, the chairman. She says: “No one feels more capable of doing so – and this seems to be sleeping now.” So what your ministry has given itself as an assignment seems to fall asleep, but you yourself want to build new monuments for soldiers who have not yet fallen. – Not with us, Minister! Mr Pilz has already pointed out that you are the second Minister of the Interior here, that you are dreaming of robust domestic deployments or that you want to build a heavy police force. I am surprised that the alarm bells are not ringing on the sides of social democracy. The year 1934 was supposed to be still in memory, and since then it should be clear: The Federal Army is responsible for external security, the police are responsible for internal security. I hope it stays that way. I hope you take to heart what Heidemarie Uhl has told you: Please let them exercise particular care and sensitivity. The monument at Heldenplatz is a symbol of the Republic, Mr. Minister. It is a symbol for the whole state, that is urgently necessary. Please finally take up this task and leave such dreams as that with this military monument!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50629	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Doskozil. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50651	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me perhaps begin by taking a look at the development of the Austrian federal army, as it has been said today, at the last ten or 15 years. It must be said and diagnosed that this development of the Austrian federal army was indeed backed by reforms, but these reforms were, on the one hand, backed and marked by savings considerations. However, one also has to critically judge in the replica that from today's point of view – and I emphasize: from today's point of view – even strategic wrong decisions have been made. From my assessment it was wrong to implement the Eurofighter acquisition. I think they've seen this in the last ten years. As has already been said today: On the one hand, one has had to save an annual budget over the last ten years, and on the other hand one has to cover the Eurofighter rates. If we judge this purchase today and if we judge today where we are moving with these Eurofighters over the next ten years, we will need a few hundred million euros to do the corresponding updates and keep the Eurofighters in flight. You have to say that, I think, fairly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I think we have seen specifically last year where the capacity limits of the Austrian federal army are located. One has seen what the Austrian federal army is still able to do when it comes to assisting the border. It was you, the Members of Parliament, the political groups, who have defined the state of the Austrian Federal Government in a resolution here, and through a cooperation with the Minister of Finance and with the security and defence speakers, that it has succeeded in ensuring a corresponding development of the budget framework for the Austrian federal army. Now, of course, the question is: What are we doing with this budget? What measures do we take with this budget? And the first and most important measure For our house, which has long been announced, a structural reform is a structural reform: a structural reform which is essentially marked by the fact that in future we will try – the first measures to do so in implementation – in the central office, in the sections, and, of course, grow up accordingly where we need our capacities. As has already been said, we will try to grow to 6 000 by 2020 in the area of cadre-presence units. As has already been said, we will not create 9 800 new posts, but we will also be able to offer 9 800 jobs as a result of retirement. But that's a huge challenge. In order to achieve our goal, we put in place attraction measures. Thus, initial measures have already been taken in the salary law. I can tell you here and today that the latest figures for this year go to the point that at the end of the year we can most likely record 100 percent more of employees than in the comparison period 2015. When it comes to recruitment, it is a great challenge for the Austrian federal army to address women, of course. That's a clear goal. We have a very low female rate when it comes to the uniformized area when it comes to the force. It is a clear goal to also address women and to provide an appropriate professional profile, also with the right to agree on the right to work and family life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What else can we do? – What will be the great challenge, and that has already been said, is, of course, because of the many different situations, due to the wide variety of past failures, that we need to invest in the areas of equipment, mobility and infrastructure. By 2020 alone, some €500 million will be allocated to the infrastructure sector. We still have a state of affairs today, where the most modern device for pioneering or for disaster use must be partly outdoors. That's where we need to catch up. I'm thinking about milk and Villach. Another challenge: It is no longer reasonable for us to place cadre staff and ground defenses in barracks, which are not adequate that there may be fungal infestations in the barracks or in accommodations. This is no longer reasonable, as we need to rethink. However, this budget or this budget development also allows us to respond to the current challenge of responding to the current security situation – in some cases the bow has already been stretched to the Ministry of the Interior. I think we owe it to the people. I think it is unfair to accuse the Austrian federal army or me that we are here in activities and areas for which the Ministry of the Interior is responsible. We are moving, and on it I value, within the framework of the laws, we are currently moving within the framework of the arrangements for assistance missions. You have taken part in these legal possibilities, these legal conditions – the legal principle has already been cited today. On this basis, we move, and on this basis, we try with our ability to coordinate with the Ministry of the Interior, of course, but in general, to do the best possible for our population. If I may go into one thing or another for a moment: For the consumption of funds in this year: It is true that until a few weeks ago there was still a need for discussion on the design of the use of funds. But it will be so at the end of the year – and the talks with the Ministry of Finance are positive, that it is also to be mentioned – that what we have done, namely to design the consumption of funds for this year, will also be realized. It will not be possible to make a part of the use of funds – that is logical and clear – in the field of assistance use, in the field of support, because there were specific commitments there, and to this extent, as in the previous year, we have not predicted the assistance services or the support services. In addition, however, the use of resources will take place for this year. If I may briefly mention the topics that are thrown into space, namely these fears of touch on the monument: I think it will be my colleague Uhl from the Academy of Sciences, from the Military History Monument Commission, quoted, who will implement this monument project in the future. I believe that one can express the opinion that, as a federal army, we are a German army of the Second Republic. We arrived in the Second Republic. I can only remember: 30 000 soldiers in a ten-year cycle make use of disasters. It is not only the state defense, it is also other tasks that are being done there. 52 soldiers have been killed abroad, over 80 soldiers have died in this Second Republic of the country; and I believe that both the soldiers and their families as well as the Austrian army have deserved such a monument. We will put the tasks and the implementation of this monument into the hands of this Commission, we do not want to implement it ourselves. This Commission will further implement the monument on the one hand, on the other hand also find the assessment committee to implement this monument accordingly in the next few years. A short view of the sport also: As we have already heard, sports is a very big challenge when we look at the funding structures. It is also my finding that the funding structures when it comes to top-level sport promotion are not up-to-date. There are many different funding pots, there is a lot of administration behind this whole top sports area, so that it is my goal that we find a classification within which we really put all the sports promotions that should be available to the top sports into one hand – and I also say here and now: in a hand of experts, of independent experts. I do not want to be here – as has been said – from the responsibility of which political responsibility stems, but there will already be the decision as you have said how the orientation of this top-level sport promotion will be. I also believe that in the future, when talking about top-level sport promotion, it cannot be and must not be that we distribute all the funding, like with a casting can, across all professional associations, but it must also respect a certain principle of performance. There must be the possibility that professional associations will also develop in line with the need to obtain potential here. Furthermore, there will be more massive and stronger support where good work is also being done and where success will be achieved. An essential project for me – it has already been mentioned – is the daily turn hour. This day-to-day tour, which we have now been able to implement in a pilot project in a federal state, in the Burgenland, with all the national sports players familiarizing themselves with the implementation of this project in the next year. Of course, wanting to do so is now a project. But it's an approach, it's an incentive funding that we can also ensure by 2019 that we can actually implement this day-to-day turn hour, also managed by external sports experts, in the school. This will also offer the possibility – I expect – that they have 40-hour jobs because the employment conditions of the sports coach are designed in this way. And there will also be the possibility to be able to access sport facilities, sports infrastructures in schools in the future. Of course, I know that this is a difficult undertaking, that this is not always easy, because school-keepers are of course different from the federal government, partly different from the countries. That is why there is still a need for appropriate discussions here. But there will be the possibility to get more into this segment. And I hope that with this overall model – starting from the kindergarten, from the school, we can, of course, continue to be accompanied by our junior centre in the higher range, to the military sport, which will also be expanded, where networking between the different levels will also be important – we can implement a model that will also affect sport positively in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50766	Next item is the report by Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50787	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I think, especially in recent years, the German army has been repeatedly affected by budgetary uncertainty. As a result, I see it more positively now that more budget is planned in the area of national defence compared to the previous year. A large part is in our country's security and migration challenges, but this cannot be mentioned often enough, this budget will also preserve jobs and, in part, create new ones. Current developments in our country have shown how important a functioning structure is. This includes available material, equipment, vehicles and equipment – in short, a corresponding infrastructure – but also a personal structure must be complete, because only in this way can we approach our objectives. It is only in this way that we can approach the objective of ensuring state sovereignty, domestic assistance operations, international peacekeeping and humanitarian operations, and also the objective of being an attractive service provider for women and men. To approach these objectives, we also create insofar as the issue of barracks closures is now from the table. In my region too, the Radetzky-Kaserne in Horn remains a major service provider. Around 180 people are permanently employed there. Around 2,000 recruits are located at this barracks site. In this year again 230 recruits are invaded. And I am really talking about valuable jobs that benefit the whole region. For this re-examination of the sites, I would like to thank you very much, very much, because these are valuable jobs for the region. The German army is investing in the future. It will be invested in the future of our country and the regions concerned, because, as has been said, many barracks sites in structurally weaker rural regions are employers for the people. In the 2017 budget, the objectives that concern all of us are really centred on in order to ensure our contribution to international peacekeeping and humanitarian aid. Mr Federal Minister, I thank you and wish you a lot of strength and good for the future challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50833	Next, Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50854	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Allow me first to make a very important motion for a resolution which has been in this House for a very long time. It concerns the injustices against former time soldiers who have paid approximately €93 million in the compensation funds of pensioners, but only in a limited way, i.e. with a covering of 30 months. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the budget: Of course, it is possible to say – without wanting to repeat everything now, because it has already been said a lot, and of course it is easier – Mr Federal Minister, you have, of course, stopped the valley trip. They have partly made new purchases, partly repairing the barracks – all of this is plausible, finds all our support. Of course, what previous speakers have said here already has something to do with it that stops. For example, Mr Schabhüttl, who was first among the speakers, has taken the word'security' into his mouth. That's an old idea, it's not unknown. And if you look towards your coalition partner, it seems logical to me, too, why you are now being so much praised by your coalition partner as one of the very few ministers of defence: because I see that you are performing performances in this respect, precisely for such a security ministry. In ÖVP dreams, this idea was discovered years ago, decades ago: Can't you create a huge security ministry, possibly led by an ÖVP minister? So it is not surprising, Minister of State, that the ÖVP praises you. You could, of course, and some previous speakers have already said this, with this budget, which is not bad – this budget is good – in the federal army, in the Barracks, with soldiers, produce a lot of things, which would also be absolutely necessary and important. But no, what are you doing, Minister of State? – They are also very much concerned about taking over the duties of the Ministry of the Interior. And now, see, since yesterday it's been through – see orf.at from yesterday –: ‘Federal army takes over detention for justice’. - Aha! There, of course, we are no longer far away from a security ministry, if you are no longer satisfied with the national defence – and in this case the budget is not that big again – if you are also concerned about agendas of the Ministry of the Interior and now, see here, also about agendas of the Ministry of Justice. Mr Bundesminister, for this purpose You do not find our support, because you are there, I believe, to prepare the aid of the EIA in the implementation of its idea, something like this until the next election. Let me explain one thing: What is the federal army that does good work and has important tasks to do with the transport of prisoners? Today, a transport of a prisoner, namely a dangerous one, is said to have been an IS sympathist, who is also suspected of not being completely inactive in the Paris attacks – from the Wels judiciary to the Göllersdorf Justice Centre, under the participation of the Cobra. It is good, but in the future you want to participate with the Austrian federal government's budget. That can't be it, that's not the federal army's most immediate task! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Please take care of the staff, Mr. Federal Minister, better – that would be very, very happy for us! From the very beginning, a stable perspective has to be offered for the breeding of cadres, and this is not only the safe federal job, but much more can be done there – for example, I only mention: Development of social packages, offering an early retirement model and, and, All this costs money, but that would actually be your most immediate task! Otherwise, of course, you have to make such statements as: They're the second Minister of the Interior. You don't think that's necessary. And I say again: Do not prepare here for the time after the election perhaps a so-called security ministry, which will then be run by ÖVP-hand! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e50945	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51018	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51039	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about the country's defence, we are talking about the security of the country, and it is about the security of the citizens in our country. That is why this is also an important chapter in the budget, and more will be done next year for the security of our citizens in the country. In the sub-division 14, military affairs and sports, €2.3 billion is foreseen in the budget. It is gratifying to see that more goes to the regions in which the military commanders in the federal states are being upgraded. And especially gratifying to me, the barracks location in Tamsweg is safe. I have worked with colleagues here in the house with great emphasis and at every opportunity for the preservation and also for an upgrading of this site, and now it is so far. The necessary resources are also provided for in the budget. There is a new hunter battalion 8 in Tamsweg. The new Minister of Defence has far more positive access to the state defense. That is a good thing, and this is clearly reflected in the budget. And with this budget we also create and secure the financial basis for the hunter battalion in Tamsweg. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It was more difficult under the chairman of the Minister. That is why I would like to thank all those who have committed themselves with persistence and sustainability to the permanent closure plans. Head of State Dr. Wilfried Haslauer, for example, or here at the home of security and defence spokesperson Otto Pendloder of the security spokespersons of ÖVP, Werner Amon, the defense spokesman of ÖVP, Bernd Schönegger, they all resisted the closure plans. And so that the thing gets round, there's military music again in full strength. [[Abg. Loacker: That's the most important thing!]] Mr. Norbert Sieber, you have successfully fought for it to be preserved. National defence is a fundamental national concern, and that is why we are voting in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51099	Next speaker: Mr Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51120	Madam President. Minister! High house! Now we are again making a small swing from the military affairs to sports, although of course it must be sought that our soldiers are also sportily active in order to carry out their tasks. To the budget in the field of sport: Mr Minister, a few weeks or months ago, you have often made very interesting and also known right approaches, for example, that there must also be a depoliticization in Austrian sports policy. – Yes, there must be a depoliticization, and we know we have three umbrella associations, we have the federal sports organisation... – Hoppala, Federal Sports Organisation: Who was elected president recently? – The former presidential candidate of S & D R Rudi Hundstorfer! So if depoliticization looks like this, we have to say: Good night! We would have liked to see you, Minister of Defence and Sports. We know that often the money from the budget pots does not come to the athletes – also a thing that our sports spokesman Petra Stegerschon has often addressed. That is to say, we must create structures so that the sport promotion, which is quite good – and at this point it is also said that the overall budget of sports is quite good; it is also one of those budgets that have been committed if you want to formulate this – so that this money will ultimately also come to the athletes. The topic of sports venues, of course, is also such a thing. We believe that there is still no strategy in our Republic as far as the sports venue plan is concerned. On the topic of sport promotion a new leap back: After the unfortunately very weak Olympic Games in London – is immediately zero medals – the large Rio project was announced and promoted with 20 million €, and then we were able to win a bronze medal. I therefore believe that there is potential up there, and I would like our group to wish that you would be strengthened in the sense of structuring, focusing and also of strategic action in our sport promotion, so that we can have a little more joy at the next Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51162	Next, Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51184	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! According to Minister Doskozil, the budget for sport, i.e. approximately € 140 million for the year 2017, is to be used more targetedly. You said in your speech earlier that the many promoters should be brought together, and I think that is a very commendable intention. I also welcome the fact that the focus on the use of funds is on the lower side, i.e. on children, and on top of top of top athletes. The children's movement is very much at my heart. It is true that the high level of technicalization is very much binding on children's leisure time – they have to deal with it. However, it is also important that they move. The children love movement and sports, and they want to stay out of their hearts when it is possible for them. It is therefore very gratifying that the daily sports hour has already been introduced in Burgenland. It is also very gratifying that in the school year 2017/18 the project should be extended to all of Austria. This is the right place to do. Here you can also establish a connection between the restricted all day school and the daily sports hour. That's a weight- The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the The students are animated into sports and movement, they will also carry on this attitude in their adult life, and this will benefit us in health care. And now to the top sports: I think that supporting our top athletes is a very important matter, and they should also be specifically promoted. Austria has great athletes, although this may not always happen at all Olympic games and other competitions. Nevertheless, it is important to promote these talents, to promote them to the maximum, and to drive them with support to their highest achievements. It is important that we promote these top athletes, because there is also a significant added value in this context. It has been proved that there is a close link between sporting success and sports role models on the one hand and tourism, winter tourism, the sports goods industry and other industries on the other. In this way, I am convinced that the budget for the sport chapter will be useful. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51232	Next speaker: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51253	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I noted earlier with bitterness that Mr Walser spoke against the monument at Heroesplatz. Maybe we should think about whether we should put a statue of Che Guevara there, maybe we will get the greens' consent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now on the real issue, on the budget: Mr. Federal Minister Doskozil, we take very positive note that, unlike your predecessors, you really take the state defense seriously, that you have at least stopped the destruction of the Federal Government and, above all, as Mr Kassager said, have stopped the “free case of the Federal Government”. That is why I would like to draw your attention to the military realgymnasium very briefly – most of it has already been said, we have also talked about it in the committee. You have told us in the committee, Mr Federal Minister, that you cannot recognize any military added value of the military gymnasium for the federal army and will therefore also hold fast to the closure of the gymnasium. Of course, you already have to differentiate a bit and look at why there is no current military added value. This is the case because the situation in the federal army was that there was simply no professional perspective in the federal army. So: Which Maturant should make a one-year volunteer year and then go to the military academy when he knows that the system is gradually being shut down, that the entire infrastructure in the federal army is being destroyed? So who's doing this to you? Who volunteers for such a job? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is exactly the same – if I have to make a comparison – as if I were to set up a bus line, I would no longer be driving a bus and I would wonder why no one gets in. If nothing is there, no one can get in. And so it has been in the area of the federal army. Because, as I said earlier, we are at least going to do away with the collateral damage of your predecessors, so to make the German army re-active, we can assume that it will also become attractive professionally. I very much believe that the military gymnasium can also be an option for young men and women with military interest and can also be associated with a professional wish. That's why my appeal is: We are talking about €200 000 a year, which would cost the Ministry of Defence approximately, but we are keeping this traditional school up and not shutting it down! That's absolutely manageable. Maybe there's another argument to this: The military multi-defence with respect to the militia has not yet been investigated at the military Gymnasium. So, Federal Minister, look at how many former graduates of the military gymnasium – I too was there – are now active in the militia and are divided into corresponding functions. As I said, this should be raised, and I think it could easily be justified to maintain this school. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As mentioned above, we are taking very positive note of your actions, especially the procurement procedures that are now under way. Because of the agreement within the team, you will also remember yourself, Minister of State: The force is now motivated again. One must now try to maintain the stress sheet. I mentioned the militia earlier and may add to it: Especially the militia needs to be equipped with modern equipment, the militia needs to be able to practice urgently. And if you do all of this, we will be able to return to an adequate defense doctrine for a short or long time, if we can also anchor the 1% of GDP in the budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51305	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51326	Three topics in two minutes: first budgetary changeover, second criticism, third militia. Winston Churchill is said to have said at the height of the London Air War – in order to formulate it positively –: The increase in the take-offs of our aircraft has declined. – That kind of reminds me of our budget where you can say: The trend reverse has been achieved, the goal is still far away. On the Criticism: Mr Lausch, I can calm down: We're not planning a security ministry! [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] The second criticism is that the arms industry is to be pushed: Rather, it is the clothing industry that is to be purchased from the stock- and shiver-proof vests. The acquisition of the Eurofighters as such was no mistake. The mistake was that they were initially financed outside the budget and then within the budget. And to Mr Walser, I would like to say that in the Second Republic, several Austrian soldiers have fallen on the service of the United Nations and unfortunately it is not to be ruled out that this could also be in the future. To the militia: “Mass and Power”, a book by Elias Canetti, should be read every ten years. [[Keeping a specimen in height]] These two factors belong together in a certain way. If we look at France, where the exception still exists today. We are reminded that it may well be necessary to offer massive security forces in a very short time. Building the militia is the adequate answer to the hybrid security situation or the threat that we have. It is not only the adequate response as such to the security situation, it is also – because it is anchored in the population – the democratic response to these dangers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51384	Next speaker: Mrs Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51405	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is known that sport affects everyone: Either you make sports, you run sports, you know someone who does sports, is a fan of a team or you are volunteering. And if not, then one of the sports is indirectly concerned about the cost of the health system. In short: Sports is important! Sports is also the expression of a nation for the performance of youth and the underlying systems. And precisely because of this, ladies and gentlemen, it is incomprehensible to me why sport has such a low priority for this government. For your sports policy in recent years, I have to give you a smooth not enough from SPÖ – and I have to say it in this clarity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In the sports system there is transparency, dual and multiple promotion. There is a political friendly economy, a party-political division of power between red and black, sports sites that are in decline, and a lot of bureaucracy and strategylessness – a wealth of things in which I doubt that you, Mr Minister, have an overview at all of what there is. What has the Sports Ministry done under red leadership since 2013? - Not much. Since then, there has been a ministerial change and a few suspensions of officials for suspicion of corruption. And there was also a funding database still not established, although it has been legally adopted since 2013. To date, there is no sports venue master plan, although you have now announced such a plan for several government periods. And for that there were also several sports venue scandals, keyword multiversum and carrying air hall. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] And, of course, there was also a devastating Court of Auditors report on the World Cup in Schladming. But what are SPÖ and ÖVP doing in Parliament because of this system? – You delay, delay, and delay again. In the Sports Committee there is the principle of drawerisation. During the entire legislative period, since I became a Member, there has not been a single request – and one has to imagine this: not a single request! – approved for treatment in plenary session. It almost looks like you don't want to allow this discussion at all – and that's right, because there's nothing that would look good for you if you discussed it here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For many years already – for many years now! – I show these abuses and say that the main problem is that the money doesn’t come to the athletes. It seems that this requires a second failed summer olympia, so that a little bit of momentum comes into the debate. Now it's good I believe that there is this momentum and that you too, Mr Minister, have announced some reforms. The most important thing, however, is that one finally comes from this announcer to the actions, that one comes from being, so to speak, and that one does not discuss it again for months or years. Mr. Minister, the budget is – it has already been said – at least positive in terms of the fact that it has not been reduced. Indeed, in 2014, as is known, €6.3 million was saved, and €5.2 million in 2016. This time, it's at least the same effectively. neither are € 142 million, but we know that the problem is not the total, but the fact that this money in the sports structure is sluggishing with the various organisations and just not reaching the sportsman. I do not give the EIA right when your Members get out of here and say that we do not have to reduce these structures. Yes, we need to discuss with these organisations, that is clear, but if these organisations are not willing to actually save and consider: Where can one conclude, where can one save on the organization?, then we have to make the relevant decisions here in Parliament and also ensure that there are savings in this organisational structure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] An organisation with which it belongs separately is, of course, the BSO: €1.2 million each year flow from the Federal Sports Fund to the BSO, with its new President Rudolf Hundstorfer – so much for the de-party politicization of the sport! With the Federal Sports Promotion Act 2013, BSO has given one of its main tasks to the Federal Sports Fund, namely the distribution of funding. Nevertheless, the BSO still receives as much funding as at the time, still €1.2 million. She's done her main job now, but there's no savings at BSO. This is not understandable for many athletes and even clubs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another example is the roof associations; Mr Gamon has already mentioned this. 31 million euros flow from federal sports promotion alone to the roof associations. And I say, These umbrella associations are the manifestation of a problem in Austria through all possible areas, which in sport finds its strongest expression: a party-political division of power of the two former major parties Red and Black, a division that is diametrically opposed to the efficiency of the use of funds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All in all, this, of course, concerns many other areas. An example of this is the ORF, which receives enough forced fees and now should not be cross-subsidized from the sports budget, and, and, and. There are – unfortunately the time of this – countless areas of problems in the field of sport. One thing I would like to address briefly is the promotion of women's sports. It shocks me and amuses me at the same time that it is just that party that is constantly addressing the gender budgeting and that is very proud of the order of feminism and of equal rights, namely the SPÖ, no matter how much financial means women get in the field of sports. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] - No! You don't even know what part of the sports budget goes to women. It surprises me that no one here has turned out and criticized it. Where is the equality you speak of in this area? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll get you together. In the Austrian sports policy, there is an urgent need to rethink, it needs an end to the red-black division of power, it needs a All-Austrian sports concept, it needs a new sports structure, and it needs an organization that focuses on the sportsman and no longer the individual organizations.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51528	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51550	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make two comments on my previous speakers: Mrs Steger, I understand a large part of your criticism, but I cannot accept that you are thousands of volunteer sports officials across all areas of our Republic de facto as a bundle of politics to set up youth and youth trainers, youth leaders, people with older people, with people with special needs, sports and movement. [[Abg. Haider: She doesn't do that! You need to listen!]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] For you, all this commitment is nothing just because you are not willing to engage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haider: Proporz defense! You should be ashamed!]] [[Abg. New builder: Enjoy yourself!]] But that fits exactly in the picture of the FPÖ: You do not even carry out those tasks that you should perform, for example the occupation of the electoral authorities in the Federal presidential election; you are not represented there either. Their words against the volunteer sports officials fit exactly into this rail. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steger: Unlike you, I am...!]] Now to colleagues Walser: Mr Walser, I am really deeply shaken at your choice of words. They told the Federal Minister that he would depend on any civil war fantasies. Are you aware of what you, as an elected Member of the National Council, have said to a minister here at the Republic's mouth?- Oh, my God! They have said in connection with the monument to fallen soldiers, it seems that the Minister of Defense has “Citizens of War Fantasies”. And you're still nagging. Mr Walser, come on. You're out and you're apologizing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know how many victims there have been in the Second Republic. And it is possible in our foreign missions, but also in the case of domestic disaster aid, that one soldier or the other soldier will also be killed in the future, and you want to deny a monument and submit it to the Minister of Defence for Civil War Fantasies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser]] This is pathetic, Mr Walser. Excuse me! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have to take a shorter look now, I actually wanted to say something about the international operations. For this, €69 million will be made available, plus €4.5 million for foreign training efforts to increase the competence of our federal army. We are very proud that we are currently on our way in 18 missions – very competent, very careful, from the UN to the OSCE to the European Union and NATO! Austria has a long tradition of international foreign operations for peacekeeping and humanitarian measures, and this will continue. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you also for showing your heart and commitment to sports despite the great security challenge!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51663	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51685	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To UG 14, national defense and sport: The Federal Estimate for National Defense and Sport is €2.3 billion for 2017. This amount increases by 246.4 million euros compared to 2016 or 11.9 percent. With this increase, the challenges of the future can be overcome, says the Minister responsible. The question is: Does the money come to the affected, and especially when? We hope that this will happen in time. Thank God, Minister, there is a trend change in the federal government's budget policy. Considering that the federal army has been completely starved in recent years, the federal army's infrastructure has been totally driven to the ground and ground, one knows that it is high time to make available the financial resources necessary for proper operation to be maintained by the federal army. It is also very important that the Federal Government's budget for 2017 provides for additional funding of approximately €150 million for investment, personnel and operations, because it must be borne in mind that 54 percent of the budget is for personnel costs. This budget, however, also has the right approach. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51718	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51739	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the bench! On the topic of our Federal Lord: Our federal army is an important pillar of public security. Among the ministers Darabos and Klug there was an irresponsible, negligent and unprecedented sale of our army, an extermination campaign that would almost have driven our army to ruin. Co-responsible is the entire federal government, which has looked forward to this drive for far too long. As a reason for this cutback, it has been stated over and over again that conflicts would be announced over a period of ten years, so we do not need an effective federal army. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] What a far-reaching error! Both the EU's external borders and our federal borders were equally overwhelmed by a wave of refugees, which has never been seen before, in the absence of appropriate protective measures, driven by a welcome unculture whose consequences will not only be ours, but also our children's and children's. Thanks be to God, the robbery started by Darabos and driven by smart to perfection was recognized to our army and finally installed a cautious Federal Minister for Defence. Now, of course, there is a need for a significant financial effort to correct Mr Darabos and Mr Klug's misjudgments, provided that this is at all possible. The wave of refugees is not yet completed at Weitem, on the contrary: There are other flows of refugees, especially from Africa. Since the European Union is anything but a confidence, we must protect our security and thus our own borders. The financial resources for our army must therefore be increased dramatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51773	On the sub-dividing of military affairs and sports, I have no further words to speak. The discussions on this subject are thus complete. [[17:00:03]] UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions – officials UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: Community financing, foreign exchange agreements and Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51855	We come to the negotiation of Divisions 15, 16, 23, 44, 45, 46, 51 and 58 as well as the text of the Federal Finance Act and the remaining parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV. There is a common debate on these sub-divisions. First of all, Mr. Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51882	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! We have already talked about the principle of legality today, and I am now going to take another step forward. The principle of legality is set out in Article 18(1). 1 Federal Constitution Act and states: ‘The entire state administration may only be exercised on the basis of the laws.’ Laws we pass in plenary are undermined by the BMF in execution. – I may report to you on a current example of consulting practice: A multinational group of companies has a subsidiary in Vienna with around 40 employees. The Managing Director of this subsidiary wanted to introduce non-taxable Essensmarkerl in the form of Sodexo vouchers of €4.40 per working day as a fringen benefit for employees. The head of the group was relatively skeptical at the beginning, as the tax-free Essenmarkerln is an Austrian cum, which is of course not included in the internal directives. At the end of the day, however, the Austrian managing director was able to convince the Group of the sense of the tax-free Essensmarkerl. This company now has a wage tax check, also called the GPLA test. The interim result of the wage tax check: The Essenmarkerl are not tax-free, but must be re-taxed. In my example, this means a surcharge of €80 000. You will now ask yourself: What did this company do wrong? - Nothing. The text of the law is interpreted by the payroll taxpayers, based on a statement from the Minister of Finance in the form of the wage tax directives, in such a way that it is almost impossible to issue the Essensmarkerl completely tax-free. The auditors want the following non-legislative evidence provided by the company in order to recognise the tax freedom of Essensmarkerl: the proof that the Essensmarkerl were redeemed on a working day, because the employee could theoretically have redeemed the Essensmarkerl on the weekend, the proof that the Essensmarkerl were redeemed at lunchtime, because the employee could theoretically have redeemed the Essensmarkerl in the evening, and the proof that the employee has redeemed the Essensmarkerl itself, because theoretically the employee could have sold the Essensmarkerl to third parties. All the evidence required by the payroll taxpayers is not provided by law. A legal tax exemption is interpreted by wage-earners according to the Minister of Finance in such a way that a legal tax exemption becomes impossible in the final effect. It is also problematic that this guidance by the Minister of Finance, in the form of the wage tax directives, is also taken over by the examiners of the local health telephone. Do you know what consequences this has for the domestic company? – The company has thousands of euros to pay. The domestic managing director must explain to the head of the group why the Essensmarkerl in the form of Sodexo vouchers are not tax-free. And the workers must expect that the issue of the Essensmarkerl will be stopped as a fringen benefit. Mr Finanzminister, I ask you: Change your anti-economic and illegal instructions so that companies can actually spend the Essensmarkerl tax-free! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Let me finish! Tax law contains many control laws – the BMF is responsible for numerous control laws, but for many other control laws, such as cold progression, the legislator is responsible and therefore I submit the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e51971	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mr Fuchs is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52032	Next word: Mr Mag. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52053	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since we have now debated for two and a half days how we spend our money and have become loud for every sub-dividing of the call for more money, we now come to you, ladies and gentlemen, to the service providers, to the entrepreneurs, to the employees, to the pensioners, to the risk capital providers, but also to the consumers – speak to the taxpayers, because the taxpayers can vote accordingly on the revenue side of this budget. The revenue page for the year 2017 is also marked by the tax reform 2016, because part of it begins to run properly only in 2017. That is to say, the preferential effects are gone, those parts that require a corresponding change of law this year are only now to be borne. How does that affect? . The revenue is swirling again, the revenue is increasing by both nominal and percentage to GDP. Of course, growth, which, through the tax reform, but also through many other measures of the government, is also contributing to a corresponding increase in tax revenue. At the latest at this point, I must give our Minister of Finance my full support to his model for the abolition of cold progression, because it is important that all providers benefit from the abolition of cold progression. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] By this abolition, we contribute to the fact that our tax rate does not continue to rise and the international comparison value does not deteriorate, and it also contributes to the increase in tax honesty, knowing that you have what you have had so far. In the last two and a half days, we have not only heard of the high revenue we have, but we have also heard, as has been said, what we have spent and want to spend, and it turns out that we have a negative balance, which has also been the case in the past. So I'm already coming to the UG 58, to the financing. The main benefit of our current low interest rate policy is the state. Despite the huge debt, we only pay € 4.7 billion in interest payments; a minus of 16 percent. It is only because of this low interest rate that it is at all possible for us to complete the budget in this form. Ladies and gentlemen, please bear in mind when voting today: None of us want to raise the tax rate, none of us want to pay for the past, each of us wants to invest in the future! Consider today when voting on the many additional requests, which usually go into the money, how it is to be paid, whether we pay for it, whether our children pay, whether we want to make further debts, or whether we want to use the low interest rate period together to repay, reduce some of the debt and set a course for a future for our children! Our Minister of Finance is in favour of this course, and therefore we support this budget template from the bottom of our heart. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52111	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52132	Mr President. Minister! High house! There has been a decision for a tax reduction in 2016 and a step-by-step reduction in the service provider's contribution to FLAF, but the burden on the labour factor remains very high, of course. In international comparison, we are still at the forefront. On the other hand – if you look at the tax structure – we have the situation that Austria is moving in the lower half, below the middle, with regard to the ecolo-gization of the tax system. And if we take a look at the taxation of assets, then it is to say that we are in the bottom field at all. If we now look at what is being done on the tax side in the case of measures to change these rigid structures in our tax and tax system, then the answer is: It doesn't do anything! While there is always a lot of talk about a relief from the labour factor, there is neither the ecologisation of the tax system nor any essential steps towards higher taxation of assets. Mr Schelling, I ask you: What about ecologizing the tax system? – Minister Rupprechter has already announced several times that the next stage of the reform is in an ecologicalisation of the tax system. You have also announced in the Committee that a working group has been set up for this, but it is happening, Minister, that it is not doing anything! I just know that you yourself say that can only happen in the international context. – No, this can not only happen in the international context, because there are national scopes. We have already put forward a proposal – the first proposal – in 1998 for the greening of the tax system, but all the other proposals that we have tabled have been ignored over and over again. Finally, as part of the tax reform debate, our ecological tax reform proposal was ignored, which on the one hand, on the one hand, was to increase taxes on pollutants and energy waste of €4 billion, as we suggested at the time, and, on the other hand, to keep the whole business neutral, to reduce taxes on labour income and the so-called pay-off costs. We've been waiting for this since I didn't know how many years, and I'm, honestly, very skeptical about whether something will happen. Although we have ratified the Climate Change Agreement, there will be no change in climate change itself, there is already a need for action. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What about the second part, with the higher taxation of assets, which would be urgently necessary, because the distribution of assets in Austria is extremely uneven? According to the United States, we have the most uneven distribution of assets. The top 10 percent have two thirds of the total assets, the highest percent over 37 percent of the total assets, and the lower 50 percent have just 4 percent of the total assets. If, in the first row, the ten richest ones in Austria took their place, a wealth would be combined, whose extent would exceed the Federal Estimate, which will be decided today and which comprises €77.4 billion, because the assets of the ten richest ones would be €82 billion. So there is an urgent need for action! – Yeah, don't worry, they'll find some easy place, colleague Krainer, you know what I mean. [[Abg. Krainer: But in the first row there are twelve places!]] Now I ask you: Is it just that we in Austria have no taxes on wealth, neither a property tax nor an inheritance tax, although we know that inheritances are those factors – these are income taxes, Mrs. Colleague, we already know – that contribute to the formation of assets? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] It is not through work that one becomes rich in Austria, but through heirs, which is often confirmed! Is it fair, I further ask, if in Austria we tax capital income significantly lower than labour income? Labour income is taxed up to 50 percent and more, capital income up to 25 percent or 27.5%. - I don't think that's fair! That is unfair, and there is a need for action, Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Is it fair, I further ask, when multinational corporations like Apple, Google, Starbucks and how they all call their tax payments to zero? Is it just, Minister of Finance, that the Multis do not have a fair share of tax charges, even many national states are courted with special arrangements, while, of course, employees and nationally active small and medium-sized enterprises are very likely to make their contribution to the financing of the welfare state? - Again: No, of course it's not fair! There is also a great need for action, Minister of Finance! Their head of section has recently voted in favour of a proposal which is based on a reduction in the corporate tax rate. – I must say, Minister of Finance, that is one of the most unnecessary announcements in the context, because it is urgent to establish at European level a uniform basis of assessment for corporate taxes and to introduce minimum rates. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What your Lord has announced is a tax-damaging dumping, and this must be prevented. We do not want to be in a series with Theresa May, Viktor Orbán and Donald Trump in this respect, there is a need for action! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Allow me to make a few comments on the new financial compensation, which you will not tire of claiming has become a really important throw. I stay with my assessment: The more I study the government template, the more I insist that this is not a significant throw. It's not an entry into the transition, it's an entry into another five years standstill. I do not know, but the quotations of Mr Wallner, who was one of the negotiators, show why there was no reform in the area, so I allow myself to quote two sentences from an APA issue. “Under the rule, count how much money flows to Vorarlberg and how freely the country can decide.” He also said: “Vorarlberg wants to return what Vorarlberg pays, then you are ready to support others.” The whole instrument is financial compensation. So if everyone wants to get back what he has paid, there will never be a balance. But that is certainly very clear why, Mr Finanzminister, despite the good intentions and intentions you had to bring about a reform, you had to go to the knees before the heads of state. This attitude of national leaders must necessarily lead to a failure of reforms of the financial balance and the federal system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As long as this little spirit does not change, there will and cannot be a reform of the financial balance and federal structures in that country. As in the past, it is only about money on the one hand and the preservation of power on the other. Perhaps you will allow me to comment on a few points of content on why I believe that the reform has failed; six points, very briefly. First: The structure of the financial compensation so far remains largely unchanged. It is turned to small screws, but nothing changes on the overall system. Secondly, The strengthening of tax autonomy is, allow me to make this assessment, very poor. And if, in a radio contribution, you could hear that the countries are still falling in their backs by an agreement and do not even want to use this autonomy in the housing promotion contribution that was granted to them, then you can only call it a perfidy by the countries. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Thirdly, The soundly announced task orientation has been more than modest. The extent and criteria are largely undetermined, they are only defined by working groups. I assure you, as the draft is now in place, that the countries are looking to ensure that the allocation of funds does not change too much. This shows the dull criteria that are discussed, i.e. group size rather than number of actually cared for children, missing quality criteria and more. Fourth, to the municipalities: The horizontal distribution of the income of the municipalities is simplified. That is what I say, good, but the balance of resources is increasingly transferred to countries. Dear Mayor here in this hall! I'm telling you, it doesn't promise anything good. This means more dependence on the municipalities on the countries in the payment of the allocation of needs. I would, honestly, defend myself against that. A fifth point: Donation reviews, i.e. carrying out job criticism, and benchmarking are certainly to be supported and welcomed, Minister of Finance, I am here with you. However, I have often experienced announcements of job criticism, and nothing has happened. Sixthly, and from my point of view, this is a very crucial point: A strategic reform to address the major challenges is not visible, there is a lack of governance reforms. The coordination of the instruments between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities is completely lacking in this financial compensation, which has been presented here, and finally the evaluation is lacking. Therefore, the conclusion: Despite a new financial compensation, we have a system that retains the central weaknesses and thus also the tendency to waste public resources. The inefficiencies remain. Unfortunately, this is the sad truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52236	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please. [[Abg. Rossmann: motion for a resolution, please!]] - Excuse me! The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52363	Please, Mr Krainer.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52385	Mr President. High house! Mr. Bruno Rossmann, of course you are right that in our tax system we have a problem in the structure of the tax. That is, those who work for their incomes pay too high taxes in relation to those who have capital and wealth. Yes, it is not a major tax reform in this budget. [[Abg. Rossmann: No, not “great”!]] We have just decided on the last tax reform last year, and it has entered into force this year. [[Abg. Rossmann: We are talking about the 2017 budget, not past!]] And yes, we do not decide on a major tax reform every year. But if you look at what has happened in the last five, six, seven, eight years, you will find that we have reduced taxes and taxes on work and increased taxes and taxes on assets and capital to improve the tax structure. [[Abg. Rossmann: Justice!]] Not every year there is a big tax reform. The big tax reforms, the big steps are being taken every three, four, five years. But this is not new, but it is the way in which we can make tax reforms at all. The tax reform that we decided last year, which does exactly what you call for, namely to reduce taxes and taxes on work and to increase the tax on wealth and capital, is only beginning to work in the budget this year and next year. [[Abg. Moser:... in homeopathic doses!]] In this respect, the criticism of the budget goes completely empty, it is actually a confirmation that policy – budgetary policy, tax policy, fiscal policy – has been on the right track in recent years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens.]] This budget makes something very reasonable: It does not save, save, save, but actually invest. We are expanding public investment by 20.25 percent, that is, we invest more than last year in construction, civil engineering, road, rail, but also in research, development, education and safety. This is foreseeable, that can be read by everyone, that is something of which all economists say, yes, Austria is taking a step forward compared to others – whether Germany or other countries. We are doing the following: We use the low interest rates to invest. The idea a previous speaker had here was: Low interest rates are used to repay debts. – I didn't quite understand that, that opens up a text-image-shearing. Low interest rates are used to invest, not to repay early debt. [[Abg. Loacker: This can only be said by someone who pays back at all at some point!]] That's what we're doing, and that's good and right. I am still giving you a little criticism, Mr Finanzminister, where criticism is not the right word – it is not yet a criticism, it has not yet happened –: We have, in essence, rightly taken care of saving in public administration. We have agreed that we also save staff, but we are also here in this House almost unanimously, I think, agreed that there are areas where we need more staff and more resources, for example teachers or security. Clearly, as we should not save staff, we need more, we have financial officials and the financial police, because they ensure that all pay their fair contribution. The honest people always pay their fair contribution, but also those who do not take it so precisely, should be brought through the financial police or through tax officials to pay their fair contribution. We want not the honest ones to be the fools, but all to make their fair contribution. However, we see in the establishment plan that no more people work in the financial police – that was also discussion in the budget committee – that there are no longer heads in the field of large-scale auditing that no more people work in the financial offices, but that this is consistent. Unfortunately, for example, the staff plan has not even been used up in the financial police – that is to say, as Parliament, we allow more heads than are occupied. Mr Minister, I would ask you to equip these three important areas with sufficient personnel. I know it's difficult, there's a lot going on a pension, there's a generation change, the new ones have to be trained, but the more important it is to ensure that employees can do their work and ensure good work in these areas, because this means that there is more tax-honority and all their fair contribution. I'm trying to make sure that we don't talk about under-exploitation at the next budget, but that you can report: All posts in the financial police, in the large operational audit and at the financial offices are occupied. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52489	Mr Hable came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52511	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Estimated citizens! We must not save, save, save, say my colleague Krainer. As if this had already happened in the state budget over the last 60 years! I would like to say more about this, but unfortunately I only have 3 to 4 minutes, and I would like to devote this to the budget chapter financial compensation. Finally, it is about federalism in Austria, which I always say: In order to evaluate federalism in Austria, it is necessary to introduce it first, because what we have in Austria has nothing to do with federalism. We have mixed responsibilities, we have unclear responsibilities, unclear responsibilities, intrusive transfer payments cross and across, so an incredible amount of tax money is wasted. The countries have no incentive to deal with their money carefully, sparingly, because they only spend the money but do not have to take it. In Austria, countries receive only 0.05 percent of their income from their own taxes, in Switzerland it is over 50 percent. Switzerland, Mr Finanzminister, has actually taken you as an example, because if it had happened to you, there should have been tax autonomy in the context of the new financial compensation. That is to say, the countries themselves should collect their taxes and be responsible to the citizens. Well, as we all know, things have changed. The whole thing has moved into a working group to deal with the advantages and disadvantages of tax autonomy. It's like we haven't known all this for a long time. It would also take a look over to Switzerland. We in Austria, on the other hand, are using a working group, and this is, of course, a funeral for tax autonomy. Federal Minister! You called this funeral entry into the transition. At least that shows that you have humor. [[Federal Minister Schelling: You do not, I have never seen you laugh at all!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – I have to admit that I really feel really laughed at your budget policy. However, you really missed a century chance – I know you don't like it – and this was a chance that you, as Minister of Finance, had a lever in your hand that no Minister of Finance had before you. This disaster surrounding the Hypo Alpe-Adria, the upcoming insolvency scenario of Carinthia, the co-financings of all other federal states about their respective country's hypo-Alpe-Adria in billions: This has given you a lever with which you could have really changed the financial balance. Unfortunately, this opportunity has been missed, the nested structures will continue to exist. It's probably up to the voters to break up these structures. They can't do it alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52553	Next, Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52575	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So I admit that sometimes I really have to admire colleagues Rossmann of the Greens. After all, if someone radiates so much pessimism and gives of himself here, I wonder: How can such a person actually handle his task? – He only sees it negative, it's all negative. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a true word!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a little the problem we have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If he already thinks – and indirectly raises the accusation to the Minister of Finance – that the financial compensation would not have brought about the possibility that the chances would not have been used that the national leaders would have enforced themselves and so on: Mr Rossmann, I should like to remind you that not so many national governments represent your colleagues. [[Abg. Peter Worm: In many!]] I have not heard from any of these members of the government that the financial compensation would have to be changed to the disfavor of the countries. So start with your own colleagues! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! - Oh, you've never been asked? – As much as you should trust my colleague Mr. Anschober in Upper Austria that he will report himself, he will be in the newspaper every second day. [[Abg. Moser: We have not been asked!]] In this respect, however, there has not yet been anything in store for the magistrate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kogler: Mother of Heaven, look at this!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The budget is the policy cast in numbers, someone has once formulated. Whoever has often experienced such budget debates – I am grateful to God – will confirm that the criticism of the opposition in these days was basically relatively harmless. Very often it has been confirmed that good approaches exist and are visible in these figures for 2017. It has been confirmed: Yes, there are more resources for security, for education. The reputation of Austria was restored abroad. The HETA and, above all, hypo debacle was solved, Carinthia was secured survival, Austria is again creditworthy, the credit quality is excellent, that is undisputed, the refinancing is reasonably possible, on the international financing markets the spreads are very low. The economy and agriculture are secure, the financial compensation is possible – even if it will never please some colleagues – and countries and communities have thus secured the future, the economic growth has been doubled by a successful tax reform to 1.7 percent. [[Call the FPÖ: Where?]] The gastro and hotel companies – which are already among those who find it difficult to do so in February because they can only lament 28 days – are experiencing sales increases, they are happy, and we are also pleased that they achieve record results every year. The limits of liability for the federal states have been agreed and those for the municipalities via the federal states, so that such a debacle can never happen again. I therefore congratulate the Minister for Finance on a very successful policy. We should be proud that Austria can be really happy about this Federal Minister and say a special thank you to him. I know that the opposition is always too little, but as Arthur Schopenhauer said: “We rarely think of what we have, but always of what we lack.”
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52687	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52708	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the TV sets! Minister, to calm down, this is not a budget landscape, but that will be the cultural landscape of the future if we continue to do so. [[The speaker presents a panel with a photo of greenhouses with white plastic plans and the inscription “Mar de plástico – so the Spaniards call this greenhouse horror” on the speaker’s desk.]] Climate change has already been addressed. We have now discussed the budget very intensively for three days. As always, the truth should lie in the middle between this exuberant optimism of Mr Auer and the legitimate pessimism of Mr Rossmann. [[Abg. Kogler: Not optimism, lack of transparency!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] One thing must also be quite clear, Mr Auer: The state can only give you something it took you before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] I think that social balance is very essential – and that is where we come to the origin of the discussion. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] When I look at the statistics, this optimism again surprises me very much: We have 4.2 million people in employment – thanks to every single person, these are our taxpayers – we have 534,000 people who work six and seven days a week, 280 000 of them have a seven-day week, which are primarily the gastronomy and the farmers with livestock farming. When I look at the pension table – we are also dealing with the issue of pension and government expenditure – I see that the statistics are exactly the opposite: Those with 777 € pension have a seven-day week and those with an average pension of 2 876 € discuss the three-and-a-half-day week. –I’m just missing the social balance, you can’t talk about it! These are the facts, and they must also be discussed in the budget. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Switzerland was mentioned, the orientation to the experts, to whom success was addressed. But you have to say in all fairness: With 400 patents per 1 million inhabitants, these are the leaders in innovation statistics. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In Germany there are 260 patents per 1 million inhabitants, 140 patents in Japan. That is, we must try to get forward in this ranking. Mr President, now to reality: You are one of the nice speakers on the situation in agriculture, and Mr Minister, that is a burden on the budget. I was shocked that this morning, colleague Obernosterer called a top gastronomy with 56 employees a bookwriter; he must be with him, but Günter Hager is still. If you look at it and say that everyone wants to become a host again, but if you don't know that 500 hosts have closed the doors forever this year, then don't consider that we have lost not only 500 valuable businesses, but also 5,000 jobs in rural areas. Mr Auer, this is the supplement to the financial compensation. We also have 3 000 more cars on the roads, because people have to go to work, and we are discussing environmental and transport pollution. If – this is the whole tragedy – more than 10,000 farms have closed in rural areas, then these are the next unemployed and the next 6,000 cars that we have on the streets. And here we discuss the climate. Think about the food of the future: Where will it come from? I brought with me once again these impressive, terrible pictures of Spain. [[Displaying on the panel on the speaker's desk]] Of course, advertising always shows the lucky bark on the alps, the happy balloon flying pig and the healing world in which the farmer talks with the ox, but let's see where the products come from! This is exactly what threatens budgets, which is exactly the lack of social balance, because the workers there get €6.50 per hour. That is exactly where it is to be done, and I am convinced, Minister, that you will continue to take the right action, because there is a great need. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[keep a copy of the ‘curer’ in height.]] The financial compensation was addressed: Yes, we have heard during our visit to the German Bundestag what problems the territories of the former GDR have with the deportation because the rural area is collapsing there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's crucial that we don't just come up with it when it's already happened, we have to open our eyes in time and act preventively. This is, I believe, the biggest challenge for politics. On palm oil tax, which is already the subject in France: If a post is not received – I ask for approval today, we have already submitted a request – then without the citizens, without burdening the entrepreneurs, one can start with the companies. The Swiss example: Switzerland requires national reports from the Group in 2018. Minister, you yourself know the question of the Greens: 1 billion € is Apple's, which is not subject to the Austrian tax – even this includes tax justice. I mean, it's very important that we think about the future. We must act in a timely manner, make budgets that are justifiable, otherwise we will take them into account for the future and, ultimately, also the joy. The most important thing is that we protect our beautiful country for our citizens! There's nothing bad about it at all. There always come these conspiracy theories, if you don't speak well or speak well. – We need to preserve and maintain this beautiful country, and this includes balanced budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52809	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52830	Mr President. Federal Minister Schelling! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the status of this budget? - We have room for play. It is an expansive budget and allows investment. The Federal grant to pensions is falling, i.e. the steps taken in the pension system show their effect. Even though many try to dissuade the pension system and spread uncertainty, I hold fast – and this is readable at the budget – to: Our pension system is one of the safest and most proven in the EU comparison! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] The increase in the minimum pension from €883 to €1,000, noted at 30 years of contributions, is an essential step and contribution to greater social justice. Investment is needed to boost economic growth. We need private investment, we need public investment. In international comparison, all economic variables speak for the Austrian course. Why? – Us There is a budget for investment in education, research, development, innovation and active labour market policies. More than €5 billion is intended for public investment, which is €800 million more than for this year. Austria, for example, is at a top European level in public expenditure on research, development and innovation. These are precisely those investments that have a lasting positive impact on economic development in general, but especially on the labour market situation. Another example is the expert scholarship, which is a concrete approach to training more skilled workers. More than 6 000 workers will benefit from this over the next few years. Another example: an investment premium for municipalities was anchored in the financial compensation, more than 100 municipalities will be able to use this premium and will be able to finance up to 25 percent of a municipal project. An interesting aspect is: This premium will generate up to 7 000 local jobs in the municipalities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So much about the examples of national measures, but also at EU level, we need a coordinated investment programme. What works in Austria could well be exported and driven forward to the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is solid, and investment is expanded and is therefore giving important impetus to secure and create jobs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52893	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e52915	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Unfortunately, Mr Jakob Not there anymore, who has previously noted that we have not criticized the budget in the last three days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I admit that it is certainly difficult to create a budget in difficult times, that is incontrovertible. They've tried a hundred percent, only: This statement is foreign to the world, here it is found that no criticism would have been practised. Please remember, you were not even satisfied with the budget. So I should like to remind you of yesterday's debate on agriculture, the discharge of farmers, the falling milk price and so on. All farmers of the social security contribution will be paid for a quarter and will have a unit value of €13 200. For all those who are over it – and these are very many, especially the middle construction! – this does not happen, and this has led to great dissatisfaction within the ÖVP Group. I can remember that Mr President of the Chamber of Agriculture, Schultes, made the following statement: “If it doesn’t fit, it will be made appropriate.” – So that was already an ordinary announcement. That doesn't sound like everything would fit in the budget – not with God! I recall the hundred-year-olds we requested as a Freedom Party, because the increase in the pension amounted to only 0.8 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Now there are the pensioners – who has criticized them? – The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in any case, must also remember that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) Habbassi here at the Pult gave a fire speech against these pensioners. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] He's said he's a duck because he's not generation-friendly. That's incredible, please. A pensioner who flows in to the older generation – and who is actually passed on alone anyway – has been criticized by you, and then you stand here today and say it's all great, everything palletti? Next Topic: Have you not observed yesterday's debate on the field of education? We decide today – not we, we do not agree with the budget, but you, ÖVP and SPÖ, decide! – a budget that lacks €191 million in education; the structural deficit could not be closed! In fact, you should not agree to this budget at all. I was also mayor, and I would not have dared to present a budget and put it to the vote where there is a budget gap. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Then you say: Great, great, everything paletteti! – I could continue this list, not just in the field of education. You've been talking about the cold progression. The cold progression is and has not been abolished. So there are many, many points, I think, that the opposition has rightly criticized. I would like to say a few words on the financial balance: Mr Schelling, you have made a hundred percent effort to carry out the task required by the Court of Auditors and to ensure that the money goes where the tasks actually take place. That's what it's supposed to be. I can't buy from the federal level, from the country level, that child care is extended, afternoon care and summer care are introduced if the money is not available – according to the motto: When it comes to financing this, it means, well, I don't care how you're doing! This has really not been implemented, and above all, the graduated population key remains essentially. This means that a citizen in rural areas is less valuable than a citizen in urban areas. I have some questions to make. You are addressed, Mr Minister, and you have kept in mind in reply to questions that you are trying to strengthen the orientation of tasks and also to decouple this graded population key. They have put a little on the road, this is incontrovertible, but essentially, the money distribution continues to be distributed to the rest of rural areas and to the rest of the communities, which we regret. Never forget: 45 percent of the municipalities are already unable to create balanced budgets! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Under the rule the criticism of the opposition is well meant, absolutely necessary and correct. It is not like you think, Mr Auer, that everything would be palletti – that is not true. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e53018	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e53039	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Highly esteemed Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two amendments at the beginning. I bring the amendment tabled by MEPs Tamandel, Krainer, colleagues and colleagues on the government template concerning the Federal Law, which amends the Federal Finance Act 2016, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 (1283 of the Supplements) as amended by the Committee's report (1337 d.B.). This is the adjustment of the Federal Financial Framework, which is necessary due to the changes in the Federal Finance Act. This is about listing the ceilings in the Federal Financial Framework Act. In addition, I am bringing the amendment tabled by Mr Tamandel, Mr Krainer, Mr Krainer, to the Government paper on the Federal Finance Act 2017 and the Annex (1260 of the Supplements) as amended by the Committee's report (1338 p.b.) ................................................................................................ I now have the opportunity to explain the proposal in its broad outlines: This request concerns the various adjustments of budget positions, i.e. overruns, such as in connection with the training guarantee up to the age of 25 up to an amount of € 37 million, further to the support measures of the Consumer Information Association of € 2 million and in connection with hospice and palliative services of up to € 6 million or € 2,140 million for the establishment of a planning workshop within the framework of the Open Innovation Strategy of Austria. It is also about payments of up to €10 million for the Research Participation Fund and the follow-up to the FAG Negotiations, Financial Balance Act 2017, with an amount of up to €443.424 million. I would just like to make three brief comments. First: The Greens are always talking about new taxes – I think we don't need new taxes, we have enough taxes. [[Abg. Moser: The wrong taxes!]] We don't want new taxes, and I mean we should put things like wealth taxes, machine taxes back ad acta quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: My God!]] Secondly, Thank you to the Minister for Finance. It is a budget with very big challenges, many special influences, and – we have heard it – there are also many necessary measures. Thirdly, A good day ends with the decision of a good budget – in this respect: all good!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e53105	The two amendments tabled by Mr Haubner and explained in the broad outlines, which were distributed – or just distributed – are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. [[Abg. Kogler: Especially so timely!]] The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57321	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57342	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haubner, it is significant: Approximately a quarter of an hour before the vote on the budget, we are receiving an amendment - an amendment that is being presented relatively passionately, of which we do not know exactly what it contains and in which direction it aims, and now we should agree. That's significant! [[call to the FPÖ.]] It is also significant, Minister of Finance, that your place of business has transmitted to us Members a medium on which a virus is located. [[Keeping a USB stick in height]] I will also be happy to return to you at the end of my speech, just to make a contribution to the economy of the state budget. I can't forget that. Well, Minister of Finance, I am really sorry. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] The problem is: You know exactly what is necessary, you know what is useful and should actually be. Now, however, you are facing a power complex – just like me – a power complex of interests, and this power complex is very persistent. This is persistent in tax policy. We would have wanted to implement a broader tax reform to relieve labour force, but that was not possible. I think you wanted that too – but it was not possible. We would very much have liked to make re-transmissions in the state budget in favour of people who really need tax money. This was not fully possible either. We are faced with distribution situations which are very problematic, and my colleague Rossmann has pointed out. We have a balance between federal, regional and local finances, which is a complete failure. Financial compensation has been completely insurmountable for years and days and does not meet people's needs and needs on the spot. You know that just like any person in this room. Only: He'll decide! But now this is not – how to say! – the criticism of an oppositionist alone, no, because the guide to my criticism is the Court of Auditors! I have a witness – and there can't be any better and more competent – I have the Court of Auditors. I only need to add the efficiency criteria of the Court of Auditors to this budget, and then it comes out what is on this stick – the virus, so that it is not right. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kogler.]] I would like to give you two very specific examples. First: Financial compensation for housing development. In fact, in view of the living situation of many people – they need to live in a quiet place – it is necessary to ensure that housing promotion is again committed to purpose. The exact opposite is the case. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Loacker.]] Mr Finanzminister, you have failed at the country's block of power, and the money will not be spent again on purpose, but it will simply be paid into the country's register. Second very simple example: thermal renovation. In previous budgets – I think your predecessors above all – you have triggered economic investment and construction activities of over €600 million through the rehabilitation check, which provided support of up to €100 million. Only VAT revenue was higher than the expenditure for the promotion. This was practically a kind of economic turbo, this climate change rehabilitation check amounting to € 100 million. What did you do, or –, we kindly prefer to say so – what did you allow? – It was shortened. Now it's 43 million euros, and what's under the line? – There are 4,000 jobs less in the field of rehabilitation offensive. These are 4,000 jobs less in an area that has really developed as a small economic turbo. These are just two examples of the general finding that needs to be repeated on the basis of the criticism of the Court of Auditors. Mr Minister, I am sorry that the Kirtag has kept the heads of state and that you are more or less forced to present us with a financial compensation and a budget that you personally would certainly not stand behind would you not be the palm of this constellation of power. This really suffers every Austrian and every Austrian, because we have no job and expenditure correlation as it should be.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57442	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57470	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schelling, you have presented a very decent and very forward-looking budget, because you have already been very praised for it today. [[Abg. Hable: That's where he has to laugh!]] We will decide this together in a good half hour, but let me do a few more things. In subheading 45, a chapter that we are now discussing in the final analysis, the Austrian Federal and Industrial Participations GmbH is mentioned. It is about the dividends that this society pours out and which flow directly into the Austrian budget. There is a new name, but little change; I say this very critically. I would like to mention that the self-renewing Supervisory Board has been abolished. I mean, that was a very necessary thing. We know that if people can determine for themselves how this was the case with the old Supervisory Board, it is unbearable, and if the owner cannot influence in any way at all, it is good that this construction belongs to history. However, until today there is not really a strategy and not really a realignment, and it has become damned quiet about the ÖBIB. You really don't hear very much, except occasionally from the media: for example, when a company like the OMC in which the ÖBIB is involved sells gas networks, which is often criticized, or when British shares are sold, as in the last few days – I think this business has gone over the stage 14 days ago – or when participation in a gas field in Siberia is acquired. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that we in Parliament are very little informed about this and very little of it. Mr Federal Minister, since you are often on the move with the managing directors and Director-Generals, it might be good, and I would simply ask you to tell us more about it. The only thing we know, ladies and gentlemen, is what we hear when we talk about the budget, because this is about dividend distributions of the ÖBIB: 2015 € 125 million, 2016 € 81 million and 2017 – now budgeted – € 218 million. We need to be careful because we know that dividends were distributed even if there were losses. For example, the OMV has lost €2 billion in last financial year and still distributed more than €325 million to dividends. I am therefore saying: The ÖBIB must implement industrial policy for important Austrian industrial and infrastructure companies and must not maintain budgetary policy as a dividend bringer. I would ask you, Minister of State, to take this into account in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57506	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57528	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, we are constantly experiencing the underestimation of the government towards Parliament, and this is once again expressed intensively today. Now the budget, the huge budget tiles have been dragged through the house for weeks, the Members have hacked him through, the staff have hacked him through, and then after three days of the plenary debate you will have to adjust something half an hour before the vote on long amendments, because obviously the majority groups there and there had forgotten something, and then you will have to judge this in the heat of the fight. It does not matter to you whether or not Parliament can deal with it on a technical basis, but it simply knocks people out. That's not a style at all! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Undemocratic!]] To the budget itself: I would like to use a few words on the breakdown of civil servants' pensions. Of course, the figures there are not going back, Mr Greiner, they are going up very well. You may not rise as fast as you have calculated. This is mainly because inflation is low and therefore payments do not rise at the rate, as wage increases are not so high. The game of mourning is that the Ministry of Finance is nothing but a purely paying agency with regard to civil servants' pensions. Therefore, the objective of action is also defined: The success is assessed when pensions are paid at the right amount at the right time. – End of the passage! We do not lay down other standards, because the ministry cannot control anything else either. The law of duty makes the Federal Chancellery, and the retirings into retirement make the ministries themselves. There should be an urgent response. My dearest friends are those from the coalition parties, who now believe that it is absolutely necessary for officials to cast out a hundred-year pension if we are just so beautiful to distribute. What does the world cost? Now you can say well, for small pensioners are 100 € much money, and in the area of the ASVG the average pension is 1 150 €. Of course, it makes a big difference whether I have 100 € more or not, but with the officials the average pension is 3 200 €, and you want to throw it up. I'm squatting up a Vorarlberger proverb now, according to which everything is always landing on the big pile. You don't care what you pull the taxpayer out of your pocket, it's the main thing you can distribute. Sometimes we also distribute things that we don't have yet, and that the liberals are there, only shows that they are politically playing a national form of socialism, but they are also socios like the Heart-Jesu-Socis and the Classic Socis. This is pure distribution and client policy, which is not sustainable. You lose sight of the boys. The fact that someone has to pay sometime is justified by Mr Hauser's justification for the grandparents to pass on the hundred anyway to the grandchildren. – Yes, that must not be true! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] If this is your form of social policy, then grace God or Goethe or whoever Austria comes to power. That's gonna be weird! What has happened in the field of pension policy, and what is happening now if the ÖAAB thinks he has to beat out a hundred more for his well-equipped official magnates – that's what I can't say – then this also shows who's mind child you are. There the great look at the great ones, and the little ones forget, that's the next generation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57582	Well, Mr. Loacker, I'm fine. Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57607	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Mr Loacker, unfortunately in recent years I have heard criticism of the budget very often in this House. We had more intense discussions than we had this week. I think the opposition has already gone out a little bit of air, because every time criticism of the budget has come, that it will not be kept, that it should be divided differently and that the figures for taxes should have changed, I can only say: At least in the last three years, we have seen at the federal budget that the budget always kept when we got the financial statements. The Minister of Finance has always budgeted very carefully and conservatively for both taxes and expenditure. One can see from the opposition criticism that there is very little inside this year, because the budget is simply a very good and very balanced budget under the circumstances. It continues the consolidation course, and we are investing in the future. Today, in the last debate, we are exchanging mutual arguments on finance, on tax revenue and so on. Yes, you could close your eyes and you could go back a year or go back a year, and there would always be the same arguments; for example, Bruno Rossmann repeatedly argues that we have a problem in the tax structure because we have far too little capital-related taxes. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] We don't have a property tax law, dear Bruno Rossmann, but we now have very high taxes on assets and capital. [[Abg. Kogler: At work!]] I remind you: With the tax reform, we have increased the real estate income tax from 25 to 30 percent, we have increased the investment capital income tax from 25 to 27.5 percent, we have increased the base for the basic income tax, and we are simply about that we do not want to tax substance, because we do not want to tax property further – on the contrary! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to make it possible for people and also workers to create ownership. For example, if someone inherits a house from his parents that he still has to borrow a loan to pay the inheritance tax. [[Abg. Kogler: That's why there is the free amount of €500 000!]] This is certainly not a question for us, Mr Rossmann. – That is not a fact-free issue at all, Mr Kogler! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Completely free of facts!]] We have decided on the tax reform, and you have not voted in favour. At €5.4 billion we relieve the factor of work, and you did not agree. So you don't need to get upset either because the factor work is not relieved. We have relieved him, to a high degree! On the subject of tax structure: Yes, it would be better for me – and the Minister of Finance has already said this a few times, and there we are perfectly of one opinion – to simply press the reset keys and start at one hour zero to think about how to re-establish a tax system. However, in the case of a tax system that looks the way it looks, with extremely high additional labour costs, with a share of different taxes on companies, corporate tax on capital companies and income tax for persons and individual companies, one has to consider how to change this tax structure instead of always inventing new taxes, because an eco-tax, Mr Rossmann, is not going to do so even if we do not at the same time halve the total additional wage costs. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Bruno Rossmann says that every time!]] You need to talk about it once, but not by always demanding new taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say something about what Mr Fuchs has said. Of course, we need – and we have done so too – personnel for the operational audit, at the financial police. We want to fight fraud – no question! – we confess to that. We have put in place a number of measures concerning, for example, the banking and insurance institutions. That wasn't everyone's favor, but we did it. However, one thing must not be that we are confusing auditors in this way, I would almost say that they carry out such tests as Mr Fuchs described. It can't be that the customer can no longer rely on legal certainty! The customer is in the case of taxpayers, the taxable person. I would also like to mention several examples, Mr Fuchs, such as allegations, namely the assessment of various expenditure treated differently in Eisenstadt than it is in Bregenz or elsewhere where the case is. Something has to happen, and Mr Finanzminister, I really appeal to your house because we do not want it. If we decide laws and say that we imagine that there are tax-free food vouchers whose value has long since been increased, because we have not increased it for 20 years, then we should also do so in an examination. And that's why, Mr Fuchs, I fully agree with your concern. This abuse is eliminated, and legal certainty belongs to it, and the examiners must simply know what the legislator wants. In this sense: I am pleased when we decide on the budget today. It's a good, a solid budget. And when we discuss the 2017 federal accounts, we will see that exactly this budget has kept good. Thank you, Minister of Finance, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57716	Before I give the floor to Mrs Gamon, just one comment: Since the Croquis is not ready for the subsequent votes, we will probably not be going around a break in the session after the last speaker, just as it was discussed in the President-in-Office. If the Croquis is there, I'll let the clubmen explain how long we're going to interrupt. If I am going to introduce it, then only because I would like to make a clarification with you before the vote begins. That is why the introduction is not yet the introduction of votes on the budget and on the various amendments. The next speaker was Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57744	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! I would like to refer once again to the issue of gender equality and the objectives of action, the gender goals, which are also anchored there. Some UGs sometimes get the feeling that they are not always taken very seriously, that you try to achieve goals somewhere that actually do not quite produce what was meant by them. In my opinion, gender equality is essential for the labour market. We have already talked about this a few times over the last few days, because it is about allowing women to live independently and independently. One's own income means independence and freedom, and that's why it's important to stress that the fight for sexual justice is a struggle for freedom. Therefore, I was not particularly pleased with the objectives of the Ministry of Finance in the UG 16. You probably didn't notice them – I did. In fact, the number of women working part-time and the gender pay Gap is listed as key figures. And there will be explicit tax policy as a measure. on the solution of inequality in the labour market. I think this is extremely exemplary; we do not talk about tax policy so often in the context of women's policy. With the help of tax policy, the Ministry of Finance wants to achieve, for example, that the second highest part-time rate in Europe, as we have in women, is reduced and that the pay gap can be reduced. The only problem is that nothing has yet been implemented. In fact, we would have had a tax reform, which would have allowed some of these things to be put on the way. It didn't happen. More disadvantages have actually been introduced for women in the labour market. For example, the increase in the negative tax was sold as a women's policy measure at the time. However, this is actually a negative incentive to work, which is an incentive, especially for women working in the low-paid sector, in the part-time sector, to remain in such an employment relationship. This is a negative incentive for employment! By the way, this is also the single-earner discount, because it is a matter of subsidising a classical family image, as the ÖVP might have liked, what the man is working for and the woman remains at home, also tax-politically. In Austrian women's policy, we are moving in a field of tension between conservative role models on the one hand and etatistic measures on the other hand, to: Then take the whole thing back in the aftertaste. I believe that neither one nor the other will help us to get on with the issue of sexual justice. That is why I am all the more pleased that the Ministry of Finance has already found an important approach. I am looking forward to the implementation of the measures set out in the objectives of equality in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57786	The next speaker is Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57807	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the budget service of the House, which has done a lot of preparatory work for us: a very warm thank you. I think I can say that on behalf of everyone. Thank you! And to the officials of the Ministry of Finance, who have provided us with the basics, also a very warm thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Loacker, if you have looked at this amendment, you know that there have been some changes in these three days due to the discussion. I would just like to say that this amendment has changed the women's budget. Some changes have just been made in these three days of discussion. This budget clearly shows that growth and employment is one of the most important points for the government. When I look at this, active labour market policy, education, research and investment in infrastructure are among the main concerns. I don't have that much time and therefore I just want to address one point: Mr. Hauser, you said that money distribution was somehow wrong. I would like to ask the Freedom Party to observe one thing: We don't need to share money, as it was used at the hypo. We have a responsible policy to make! We do not need this, because these €5 billion that we have put in here so far are burdening this budget, and we have to pay for it forever and for a while in Carinthia. That's not how money distribution goes! Responsibility belongs here! That is why this budget has been presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57847	Mr Mag. Zakostelsky is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57868	Mr President. Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Despite difficult framework conditions – a well behaved economic growth, the refugee theme that we all know about, and also the challenges on the labour market that we know enough – I see or see the budget on a very solid course. This is particularly evident in the fact that everyone, I emphasize, could really meet all the EU's requirements; and at least for the third time in a row, we achieve a structural zero deficit. Of course, it must be mentioned that the debt continues to rise, but at significantly reduced speed. Nor should it remain unmentioned, it is very important for future policy that we have achieved a debt of almost €300 billion over the course of this year. What we need, therefore, is a very balanced policy with a sense of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and no policy dreaming of unilateral deficit spending. Precondition, and this should be aware of all of us in order to spend more, to put more into future investment, is that one saves in good times. It is therefore the prerequisite to reduce debt in good times. Therefore, as mentioned several times by the current Federal Government, we need reforms – reforms in order to develop the necessary scope for us to actually make even more future investments in the future. There is, by the way, an up-to-date, very good example, namely the bank levy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what future-oriented policy looks like. A new regulation has been drawn up which is in fact appropriate in relation to European competitors and thus gives the local credit institutions scope to stimulate growth. It is known that the credit sector plays a much stronger role in Austria than in the capital market compared to other European countries or in comparison to the US. Ladies and gentlemen, we need more such forward-looking reforms! To conclude, the plenary session is soon about to end, I really want to ask you: Are we still working together today to create a sign of fairness, ladies and gentlemen? Are we able to thank the Minister of Finance for bringing together a truly solid budget in these challenging times? – I think this applause has just deserved the current Minister of State. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57902	Next came the last speaker, Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57923	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! In subheading 45, the international financial institutions, including the World Bank Group, the Monetary Fund, the regional development banks, are being taught, which are simply complementary to bilateral development. work together and represent one, as I mean, very large and important chunks throughout the Official Development Assistance. I personally believe that these have a very special task and do a lot of things that bilateral development cooperation cannot do, namely to implement really large projects in regions where Austria does not necessarily have a developmental focus. Some of us have not yet given up that we will eventually achieve what is in the government programme, namely to develop and write an Austrian overall strategy. Of course, the IFIs strategy plays a very important role in this. However, it is also important to cut these with other strategies that are not necessarily on the forefront of development policy, such as the climate strategy, approaches to sustainability strategies in Austria, or the question of the implementation of Sustainable Development Goals in Austria. A request concerning timing synchronization: For example, we decided to discuss the last IFIs strategy about half a year before we started discussing the three-year programme of Austrian development cooperation. It would, of course, be useful to look, in the sense of a timing, at how to actually harmonise all these discussion and voting processes, so that you can reach a common direction in terms of content, which of course is only possible if you vote in time. I am convinced that these funds that we spend on international financial institutions are used very well and very efficiently. Summa summarum we know that we are not the world champions in the teaching of development cooperation. All the more important it seems to me to use this relatively little money, which we take on board for it, very effectively and effectively. Of course, this will succeed if it is better coordinated with other relevant policies. Finally, my appeal to you, not only to keep in mind the level and size of the pots during the discussion, but also to see how we can best coordinate what we have in order to implement our Austrian efforts on this issue of global sustainable development as efficiently and decisively as possible. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e57971	There are now no more words. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Since all the political groups have indicated to me that they do not need to interrupt the sitting, but that we should proceed to the vote immediately, the opening of the vote also applies to the vote. As I see, the squares are full of space. Before we enter the vote, I would like to inform you that Mr Franz has put forward a self-employed motion for a resolution on “protection of the family as a state target in the Austrian federal constitution”. However, this application shall bear only one signature. He is therefore not sufficiently supported. [[Call to the SPÖ: Who's the signature?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Is that even a parliamentarian?- Oh, my God!]] Therefore, according to § 26 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to support this request in addition and who have not already expressed it by your signature, to give a sign. – This gives the necessary consent to the submission of this application. The request will be allocated and will, of course, be sent to the Committee. We hear this again in the assignment session, and then it takes its way. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Federal Finance Act 2016, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020, in 1283 of the Supplements. Mr Tamandel, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Tamandel, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled a motion for a resolution on Article 3. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a sign of consent. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Federal Finance Act 2017 and investments in 1260 of the Supplements. Mr Tamandel, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a supplementary or amendment. Deputies Mag. Haider has made a request to vote separately the breakdowns 01 to 06 of Appendix I – Federal Estimate 2017. There is also a request from Dr. Moser and Mag. Rossmann on separate vote with regard to breakdown 06 of Appendix I – Federal estimates 2017. Therefore, I will first vote on Appendices I to IV and then on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2017 and, in accordance with the classification, will bring to the vote the parts affected by the said supplementary or amendment request and the request for separate vote. I will have the resolution tabled on the draft Federal Finance Act 2017 and the amendments made to the Annex to this resolution vote in the order of submission following the third reading. Appendix I Federal estimate 2017 We reach a separate vote on Divisions 01 – Presidencieskanzlei, 02 – Federal Law, 03 – Constitutional Court, 04 – Administrative Court, 05 – Public prosecutorship in the version of the Government's proposal. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a sign of consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now entering the separate vote on Division 06 – the Court of Auditors in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. MEPs Tamandl, Krainer, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning subheadings 20, 21, 24, 31, 33, 40 and 44 in Appendix I – Federal Preview 2017. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of Appendix I – Federal Estimate 2017, including overall overviews (Annexes I.a to I.e) as amended by the Government template. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Annexes II to IV We shall vote on Annexes II to IV: Annex II Federal staff, which provides for third parties – gross representation 2017, Appendix III financing, currency exchange contracts – gross representation 2017, Appendix IV Staff Plan 2017, respectively, in the version of the Government template. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is accepted by the majority. Text of the Federal Finance Act 2017 Now we reach the vote on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2017. Mr Tamandl, Mr Krainer, Mr President, have tabled a supplementary or amendment to Rule VI. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we reach the vote on the remaining parts of the text of the Federal Finance Act in 2017, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2017 together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions submitted to item 4 in the order in which they are put in place. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, on the approval of any amendment to the amount of the programme fee by the National Council. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stefan, colleagues and colleagues on the conclusion of state contracts for the arrest of foreigners sentenced in Austria in their home country. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, on no EZA benefits for the withdrawal of their citizens from non-cooperative countries. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Mölzer, ladies and gentlemen, on the achievement of a minimum of € 1 million for German minorities in the successor states of the Austrian-Hungarian monarchy. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues on the prohibition of the 'Lies' action by the Salafist Association 'The True Religion'. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, ladies and gentlemen, on the 'Fight for Djihad Returners'. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kumpitsch, ladies and gentlemen on the tax allowance and man-made equipment for executive officials. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lasar, colleagues and colleagues on the exclusion of NGOs from participation in the field of asylum. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Loacker, colleagues in the field of pension automation. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Neubauer, fellow Members, on the increase in pensions by 1.3%. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schellhorn, colleagues on the German legal requirement for minimum security. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Gamon, colleagues and colleagues on automatic pension splitting. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the protection of Austrian health. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on 'Palm oil and palm fat tax'. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on more resources for climate protection, less environmentally harmful subsidies. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, on the financing of water ecological rehabilitation measures. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on the immediate end of the estrangement of the funds from the family compensation fund. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on the full pension allowance of four years for each child. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bernhard, colleagues, on binding timetable for the decommissioning of the family compensation fund. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bernhard, colleagues, on the limitation of the retroactive payment of family aid. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, fellow Members, on 'Improved retirement periods per child for childhood'. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Dr. Strolls, colleagues and colleagues on financial equality of non-confessional private schools. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues, on an index of opportunities for schools. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, colleagues in the field of research funding law. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger, colleagues, on the abolition of economic sanctions against the Russian Federation. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on 'quality seal legislation'. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on the urgency of the abolition of multiple duties in the Chambers of Commerce. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues, on the implementation of the greening of the tax system announced by the Minister for the Environment. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Houses, colleagues and colleagues on the urgent need for an increase in Austria's budget. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Angerer, colleagues and colleagues on Cargo Combi Terminals in Fürnitz. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lichtenecker, colleagues and colleagues on the financing gap in the implementation of the FTI strategy. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Arbitrator, Dr. Lopatka, Dr. Pilz, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Mag. Dr. Strolz and Ing. Lugar on no arms exports to Turkey. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. (E 182.) [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lausch, colleagues, on the abolition of 30 months of accountable attendance hours. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition of cold progression. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, on: Ecological taxes – reduce taxes on labour. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:37:50]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00154_d8e58334	I announce that self-employed requests 1898/A(E) have been submitted at today's meeting until 1935/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 6.39 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
