ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1480	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 140. Meeting of the National Council and apologise for the 5-minute delay; the main committee of the National Council has yet to set the election day for the Federal President's election. It's going to be the 2nd. ==References== The official protocols of 136 and 137. Meeting of 6. In July 2016, the management of the Parliament was unable to raise any objections. Deputies Knes, Schabhüttl, Dr. Nachbaur, Hafenecker, Höbart, Jannach, Kitzmüller, Neubauer, Riemer, Barbara Rosenkranz, Mag. Schrangl, Zanger and Schellhorn. I announce that this session of ORF III will be broadcast live in full length. [[13:07:09]] Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1523	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1593	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 to 4 of the agenda be summarized. Is there any objection? [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] - I'm not sure now that's an objection. - No, there is no objection. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1625	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day block time of 2.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 34, FPÖ 31, Green 26 as well as NEOS and STRONACH each 14 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club within the framework of this Decision per 7 minutes; in addition, their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. Whoever agrees to this Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:08:37]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1193 and 1193, e.g._Other Organiser Paris Convention (1198 A.D.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1668	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I welcome Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Rauch, has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1698	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Climate protection is an international task. The Paris agreement, of course, also shows what can happen to us here in Austria. Why do I say I can? – Although we all know the framework conditions, what we do not know is the way we should achieve these objectives. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would like to thank you once again, Mr Federal Minister, for the environmental survey that took place here a few days ago, I believe, a week and a half ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] – Mrs Brunner, you mentioned it, okay; then I also mention it at the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The survey has already made Parliament!]] Mr. Federal Minister, it was a pity that you left this survey at the beginning, according to your statement of entry. I understand, of course, you have your dates, that is understandable, but overall it was already somehow significant that the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Environment have left this survey according to their entrance statements, although it was a very interesting day in terms of building and space planning, transport, industry, infrastructure and climate research. There were very many experts and social partners here who have also brought us new insights on many points, although we, the FPÖ, do not agree with everyone. I say quite frankly and honestly here that we cannot vote on many of the points that have been set out here, and we are not going to take this agreement in this form today, because, as mentioned earlier, we know all the objectives, but we do not know, is the way to how to achieve these objectives, and that is the decisive thing. [[Abg. Brunner:... decide!]] We in Austria are of course the pattern students again, trying in advance to act as a pattern student. I would like to mention an exciting statement by Dr. Eder of the voestalpine, who was at this survey, here; he asked who would pay this turn. – This has to be clarified, because we cannot afford to do one thing: risking local policy, economic policy at the expense of the entire economy and the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another important point I would like to address here is, for example, the rural area, one of my favorite topics, since I am in the regional board myself, in the regional management of my home district. In their Sunday speeches, MEPs are talking so loosely and fluently about rural areas, about their thinning, which we have to counter, and, and, and then, we decide on REPROs, regional development programmes, which, in the end, do not go in conformity with the things that we are supposed to decide here. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Of course, this is not federal competence, we are talking here about country competence, community competence, but overall environmental policy is all about us; it begins in the municipality, in the countries and then, of course, also concerns the federal government. Climate protection does not stop at the state border, in the final effect we need an international shoulder closure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] [[Abg. Brunner: This is the Paris Agreement!]] – Absolutely, but the question is how to achieve these objectives and how to achieve them. There is no concrete proposal from you as to how to resolve it. And action is quite different in the state, in our federal states. I take Graz as an example: In Graz, between 10,000 and 15 000 people a year are increasing, without finding solutions to counter rural thinning. The decisive thing about this is that social focus is created as well. We are creating social priorities, which in the final effect is not in line with the environment and with the requirements of rural areas. The traffic was here yesterday in the High House; we have decided on the comprehensive truck toll. The aim is an essential requirement on our part, we say that the MEST, the mineral oil tax must be used in this area for infrastructure and also for transport mobility and also for public transport accordingly. Then all these issues, these new burdens on the citizens of the table, and there would also be a discharge of the population. Who will pay this turn? – Location policy. I mentioned it earlier, the chairman of the board of directors of voestalpine Dr. Eder has explained very impressively and unabatedly what would be necessary here. It would also be important for us to create an energy autarchy, also for wind, solar power and hydropower to be much stronger and better promoted in this area. This would be our approach in the field of renewable energy; it would also be an important point in order to ensure that the Ecostrom Act is adopted in autumn. One point regarding agriculture – if I make the ÖVP sector – which we strongly reject is biomass and biogas, because it uses agricultural land, which is blown into the air in the final effect, without ensuring that the best and most beautiful agricultural areas are used. There is our approach that we must not sacrifice our landscape. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] [[Abg. Brunner: You're saying what you don't want! What are your solutions?]] Our solution proposal: We rely on wind, solar and hydropower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1821	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1842	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rauch from the FPÖ, I am disappointed! [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: But that's surprising!]] I'm really disappointed, your speech was a single contradiction in itself. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As regards the survey: Of course, this was an open and important discussion, it was important that everyone here make their point clear. It is precisely from this platform that we need to continue working to achieve the objectives. We must jointly formulate the objectives. But only because one has a different opinion than another, because there are different opinions to say we do nothing at all – so one cannot make politics. That's not responsible! Second: The survey has Parliament, we have set by the Environment Committee, and I thank the Minister for having found the short-term time to be there. You shouldn't complain now that he couldn't be there all day. He made it possible to be here. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] And the third thing: They have mentioned rural areas several times, including agriculture. Do you know that the rural area – alongside other areas – is currently the most affected by this climate change, that there are millions of or billions of damage year after year as far as agricultural production is concerned, that people actually do not know how to work in the future when conditions worsen? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rauch.]] It is therefore necessary to hold this debate, because in the run-up to the Paris Treaty, this global treaty, a great deal has been done, and I do not mean now scientific, political or other preparatory work. – No, a lot has happened with regard to the global climate change. Weather phenomena have occurred, in their most dramatic effects, to weather conditions, to dry and to heat phases, to floods, to hurricanes and much more. And this is the task we have: to resolve this matter. We have also made our contribution in recent months and years to solving this problem. It is an impressive result that the 196 states in Paris have achieved, for they have said: First: There is a problem with the weather and climate. We have understood, and we are inherently involved in the effects. Secondly, But we are also human beings, as cultures directly affected and will feel the negative effects. And thirdly, and that was the impressive thing: We all, 196 states, need and want to do something together to solve this problem in order to improve the situation as quickly as possible. I mentioned it: We made a contribution. Austria has also tried to bring in many topics and content. Thank you very much, Minister of State! You have played a leading and leading role in these negotiations on behalf of the European Union – I should like to congratulate you very warmly – and it has been you who, from the decision-making process to the present day, has always been behind the fact that we can ratify today – as one of the first countries in Europe and thus as one of the first countries in the world. – Thank you very much for your commitment in this matter! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Those who deal only a little bit with the subject, know that time is pressing and that it is time to put in place measures to actually implement the planned content and objectives formulated in Paris. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps it is not yet so tangible, perhaps it does not feel like one or another, or has not experienced it in his previous work, but in reality, with this ratification today is one of the most important decisions in this House in recent times, because this decision will change our life in many ways – I hope it will be a positive one. [[Abg. Brunner: That's right! That's right!]] New energy sources will be opened up, they will be expanded in a very complex way. But there will be a lot of new things: It will permanently change our mobility, with new technologies, of course it will shape the economy. And we have this task to keep this discussion open. I am convinced, however, that the economy will find enormous opportunities here. That's what we need in our country. We have so many innovative companies, we need to give them the platform and we must accompany them in this way in the future. And we do not need to step back at this stage, but we need courage at this very stage! We need this closeness, we need a network to continue all the areas that are responsible here, even in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Value-added, job creation, the stabilisation of the economy and the opening up of new cycles are what we can reinvigorate by this decision today. And that is something we can build on in the future – in the sense of the future of our planet, for the benefit of our children. We have this responsibility, and I can only ask you to agree to this agreement. We are happy to do this on our part.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1929	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e1950	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, as indicated by my two previous speakers, the survey was very instructive and has shown a lot of new things, which I would like to emphasize, new and interesting and quite promising. And I'm quite right about my previous speaker from the ÖVP: We want and need to do something to improve our overall climate situation, climate change, CO2 emissions and so on. At the same time, however, I ask three questions that are very closely related to this issue: What will the energy of the future cost us for heating and lighting in the household? What will mobility cost us? And what will happen in the employment sector, in industry, in all sectors of the economy? Our lives will change – yes, my colleague, I will give you that right – and I hope that life will change into a positive one. However, I am not convinced – quite the contrary – that the implementation of what has been presented in this survey has been plausibly carried out, as some have said, relatively quickly and quickly and will not solve any problems. [[Abg. Brunner: With scientists! Scientists!]] I don't think so. And I believe that we have fewer opportunities and more risks, especially in the field of the economy – and I would like to thank the Director-General Eder for his very critical and warning contribution. Who was Eder talking for? – Not just for the voestalpine! [[Abg. We already sold them to Texas!]] It is always presented placardically as speaking only for the voestalpine. [[Abg. Strache: We already sold them with their investments!]] No, it speaks for the entire energy-intensive industry in Austria, and it has clearly stated that there are 25 percent of jobs in this sector alone, plus additional in the downstream and downstream industries and plants. That's not a small thing! We're talking about that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And just as he said, we do not currently have these forms of energy. We don't have them – everything else is simple and simply the untruth. We do not have them, and we will not have them to this extent soon! And we will not only have them to this extent, but we will not have them at this price either! And if we don't have them to this extent, at this price and in this way, we don't have the technologies to use them either! And it would be careless to just go over it now and say that 25 percent and more of our jobs are worth nothing to us, because we need something against climate change! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I demand nothing other than the exercise of responsibility – no more and no less – of this federal government: Responsibility for jobs, responsibility for mobility. Although I believe that there will be much faster change there than in other areas, but: If we no longer have the mobility that the commuters come to their jobs, then Land Captain Pühringer – I quote him here – can write and throw away the saying “The country must live” somewhere, because then the people will move to the cities. Then we have the country escape, and then he can forget this sacred saying! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it is not only mobility and industry, it is also the energy costs at home. If we can no longer afford heating in winter, because in the cities we can no longer afford the concept of gas as the cheapest, the cheapest and the simplest energy source, or quite the biomass in the country, if we can no longer afford all of this, then everything stops. Then we arrived at the standstill of this Republic and can forget the rest! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's the point in total: Mr Federal Minister, we must not be the pioneers of Europe! We do not have to be the third person who decides the whole thing, we could also be the fifth or the tenth. And then let's take a look at what's happening in China and the USA, especially in the USA after the elections, because I can't imagine a Mr. Trump simply signing this or all the others. [[Abg. Brunner: It's already signed! Mr Trump can't stop anything!]] I can't imagine all of this, not that China does it – but we Austrians are the pioneers. And I'm telling you about this place: 25 percent of Austrian workers will point their finger at you if there are problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2076	Next, Mr Weninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2097	Madam President. I am now really surprised at the speech by the FPÖ. Mr Deimek, we have been working together constructively in the Committee on the Environment for years now. I don't know who wrote this speech to you. Is that an election speech for the presidential election? This is far from any scientific expertise! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you charge energy costs at natural costs, you're so far away from people. That's where you liberals can no longer represent you as an Austrian party! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: “Man as will and imagination”!]] [[Abg. Street: Let's start the machine tax!, that's your concept!]] But we are going to be more constructive again and we also see that the first speaker of the FPÖ has expressed an appeal that climate change can only be solved at international level. This is a positive step we recognize. I am proud that we were not only on our way to Paris, but also at the climate conference, COP 21, one of those nations that, with concrete experiences and positive examples, could contribute to this process. I am also proud that we are one of the first parliaments to ratify this global climate agreement, because it is nothing less than the burden limits of our globe. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, should have arrived with you. [[Abg. You should think about the burden limit of our unemployment once!]] Scientific expertise is clearly obvious. I can only recommend the reports of both the international and Austrian climate experts. The fact is that it is not about weather-chapterials, but about global warming, it is about melting polar ice, it is about rising sea level, it is about sea warming – and these have caused weather-chapterials, changes in weather, drought and floods, which then cause affected people to leave these areas that become infertile, and as economic refugees, for example, seek protection and help in Europe. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a central issue of distribution which lies ahead of us. This is not only about how much CO2 per capita can be emitted per country, but also about how resources, raw materials, land, food will be distributed in the future, and above all about combating poverty and injustice. That is why I would also like to mention on this point that last year the United Nations not only succeeded in bringing the Paris World Climate Agreement under the umbrella and expertise, but almost simultaneously, a few weeks before that, also the 2030 Agenda with its sustainable development goals. Both agreements must be implemented together so that we can actually achieve our objectives. As far as Austria is concerned, we can be proud of an environmental and climate policy that has contributed a great deal to bringing about a change from existing forms of employment to new, future-looking, so-called green jobs in the export economy, in the regional economy. We have also achieved a great deal in decoupling energy consumption from economic growth. But, of course, it is a matter of applying a powerful copper. This process will touch our way of life. We will have to take people with us in the coming changes as regards mobility in terms of settlement policy, regional planning policy and cetera. This is the task of policy that we must carry out in the next few days and weeks. However, I would also like to address a very recent example from my home country, which shows that apparently not all have understood how far we – apart from the Paris climate agreement – are in the process of ecologizing, in the sustainable development of our daily life: A new transport tariff was presented in the Eastern Region a few days ago. This traffic tariff leads to the fact that, in large parts, the changeover from passenger car to public transport is not forced, but the very opposite. In fact, price increases of up to 70 percent have occurred. I could mention a couple of shanks from Lower Austria and Burgenland. For example, the price for the annual ticket from Munichdorf to Vienna rose from € 780 to € 965. Ladies and gentlemen! We must also take the countries in the boat. I think you have to say with all clarity, too – the Minister of Finance?Use custom fonts; [[Call the SPÖ: This is the pomp!]] [[Abg. Rädler: The Minister of Finance!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: And the Niessl!]] Mr Rädler, he was good too! –: If the countries are unable to recognize the signs of the time, the federal government must ask itself whether the funds we provide to the countries to finance their tasks are actually used properly. This tariff reform of the East Region Transport Association sells many long-term train and bus users, who then return to the city with their cars, for example to Vienna, to their jobs. I can't do that! It's got to be taken back. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] It is a false signal on a day when we are ratifying the global climate agreement here in the Austrian Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2214	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2235	Madam President. High house! Actually, I didn't want to deal with the FPÖ's arguments, because that fits everything so well in your mind: They're trying to shoot themselves. They want to get out of all international treaties whether this is the refugee convention, whether it is the climate agreement. They want to get out of the EU. They want to drop the border beams. Your arguments actually have nothing to do with the climate discussion at a technical level, but they are just an expression of your decomposition strategy – and nothing else. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Yeah, it's so contradictory. I would like to pick up a little bit of the positive mood that this historic moment of the conclusion of the Paris climate agreement has produced. There were statements like that of François Hollande, who said: “We have made today the best and most peaceful revolution – a revolution for climate protection”, or that of Christiane Brunner: [[Abg. Deimek: Has he already signed?]] “The age of fossil energy is over.” – That must be quite in your mind! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The train towards global climate protection has left the station, which can no longer be stopped by Republicans. And a President Trump will not sign this climate agreement, because he is already signed, namely by President Obama. [[Abg. Kogler: He can't write it right anyway!]] And it has also been announced that it will be ratified by China and India this year too. If we were not to ratify now, this would result in us not being able to speak for the whole process, because then the Treaty entered into force. That is why I expressly welcome today's ratification and believe that it is reasonable, because we want to speak with you and not shoot ourselves off, unlike others in this House. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that climate protection and climate protection policies have a very deep global background. Climate change destroys the livelihoods of millions of people, destroys thousands of species of animals and plants, intensifies wars, intensifies and fires global injustices, will also cause escape for millions of people. And to pretend here as if this had not arrived in Austria is to close the eyes before reality. Especially in rural areas, if you look at the last year, you have suffered dramatically. The heat days we had in August 2015 were a total of more than the entire heat days in the ten years before. And these are superheating days – that is, the temperature rises to over 35 degrees and even at night does not cool down to below 30 degrees. The continued dryness has caused very, very serious damage in agriculture. We also know how to worry about winter tourism. This is all rural space. [[Abg. Deimek: I know the greens more than those who prevent tourism!]] We also talk about forest fires – and not in August, but in 2015 there was the real, acute danger of forest fires in Austria. It all takes place in rural areas. And I think these are things that can be taken with concern into this discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We're at plus 1 degree now. That means for Austria – here you always have to count twice, because with us there is a special situation with the Alps and the Alpine region – we already have in the middle plus 2 degrees. Plus 2 degrees, which means millions of nights in winter tourism. Millions of nights in winter tourism less! We can't want this. We can only take part and work to ensure that climate action is effective and effective worldwide. And I also believe – and I am not the only one who believes this – that now believes the entire economics scientists and economics politicians, the high number of unemployed, the waste of tax money on environmentally harmful subsidies, can all be handled with a reasonable climate and tax policy. And with this, we open up a lot of scope, including financial, for example for housing offensives or for very important investment programmes to reduce unemployment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The world wants to survive the climate crisis, which it has made clear in Paris. This was a great success for the State community – after the failure of many, many Contracting States conferences – and it was also a master achievement that it was so successful that everyone really is involved. It is a huge challenge, and that means for us that in 2050 – in order to illustrate this only once – we must have changed the entire economy, our entire way of life to 100% renewable energy sources – everything: traffic, housing, heating, consumption. That also means: out of plastic! to name it again, and that also means a complete reorientation of industrial agriculture. This also means an outing for mass animal husbandry. This is incompatible with climate change in this form. This is a huge challenge, but also a huge opportunity. When we look at each other,... [[Mr Grillitsch and Mr Prinz.]] – You can still speak. But we can enjoy the ecological orientation... [[New calls from the Abg. Grillitic.]] That's where you wake up all the time! Whenever anything's going on with agriculture, there's an intermediate call. Did you listen to me what climate protection means? – This means the full exit from all fossil energy sources by 2050. This also means the outing for industrial mass animal husbandry and that also means the end of plastic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] I don't understand the ÖVP! When it comes to agriculture and if anything needs to be changed, we are immediately going into defence. You can't change anything. I see it as a huge opportunity for our country. Fortunately, we are not at the beginning either. There are very positive developments in the eco-industry in Europe. This was one of the few sectors that came through the crisis years very well. What's the matter with you? Are you the defenders of mass animal husbandry all over the world, or what? – That’s incredible! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You can also discuss our diet. We must now deal with the real need to make a consistent effort to implement the energy transition. And here I am at a slightly more critical point: We are not satisfied with what has happened in Austria since Paris. It's essentially not an extravagant. I mean, the survey has been there, but the survey was a discussion. We would also have liked to see concrete changes in policy, especially in the budget. Unfortunately, in the budget, we have had to note that the key climate protection instruments that secure thousands of jobs in Austria – and this was even carried out in the budget documents – cost 7 000 jobs in the coming years. This was even to be read in the budget documents. And yet the environmental and energy funds have been cut short, and domestic climate and energy support has also been reduced – all the important instruments that we actually need to make something positive from the crisis years. As my speaking time today, at the last part-session before the summer break, is unfortunately already over and with this also my speaking time for this part-session, I would like to address a very important concern to you, Mr Environment Minister, since the Minister for Energy is not here: For us Greens, energy policy is the key, and we believe that one could in the second change the eco electricity law, re-establish it, and one could make a little better in the second as far as energy efficiency is concerned, even in Austria from now on. But unfortunately this does not happen, and that is unfortunate. I just don't think it's enough for us to talk a lot about surveys, I mean, actions are in demand now! And it would have been nice if we had at least changed the Ecostrom Act before the summer to help all the plant operators that are now in the queue – all Austrian planning offices, all Austrian companies, all Austrian engineers who are currently waiting for orders – to implement their projects, which are hundreds of them.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2368	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2389	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to address the objections of the FPÖ later. I think it is important that we take another look at what is to be decided here today. 178 countries around the world have decided to get out of all fossil energy sources by 2050, for a very central reason: because we have to keep global warming below 2 degrees because otherwise the climate actually goes out of the joints. Now one can look at this from an environmental, social and economic point of view, but is central: This part is no longer negotiable and dissuasable: first, because it is scientifically proven – 99 percent of scientists can follow the theory, can follow the forecasts – and second, above all, because we already feel the effects. What are we talking about in terms of the effects? – Austria will be above average affected due to the inner alpine region. There was a climate report by 200 Austrian scientists who clearly say: If we create this 2 degrees global warming, so if we reach all that we have done as a world community, then it is still 4 degrees in Austria. 4 degrees means for Tyrol, means for Salzburg, for some Vorarlberger valleys and for the Salzkammergut, that we have to block entire valleys, that we have to settle people. That's gonna happen. This will not happen in five years or ten years, but it will happen until the middle of this century, even if we achieve all the goals, because people there will no longer be able to live in security because the environment will change. – This is a central fact for Austria. What's going to happen? – The economy and society in total will suffer nearly €8.38 billion of damage every year, even if we reach all our goals: by storm, by additional forest fires, hail and, and,. There are two ways that this is financed: on the one hand, tax money, because something is not insured, and on the other hand, by the fact that insurance contributions are increasing and people have higher expenditure. That means that these €9 billion we already have in our pocket at cost, so to speak, if you want to. We will have to talk about how this will be financed. That means we have problems. But we have also already adopted solutions, although the liberals may not have understood the measures that are intended to lead to emissions as yet as the remaining five groups here in the House. These solutions are very clearly sketchable: On the one hand, we have an energy turnaround, as before, where we invest heavily in photovoltaics, wind power and hydropower. The hydropower is relatively well developed in Austria, as there is little buffer available. On the other hand, it is also true that we will get from a central to a decentralised energy supply, where we have a lot more energy storage space in Austria, where new economic fields for the agricultural sector open up, but where others may fall away again. We have opportunities in mobility. Only yesterday did we talk about it. We know that electromobility is rising. At VW, the responsible people have already said because of the exhaust scandal that they will establish this as the second main business branch. We are talking about a changeover within about five years, in which the largest European car manufacturer will set the second priority. We also talked about automation yesterday. There is also the interest of European and worldwide corporations and of many medium-sized companies in Austria that we are coming to the next steps. There will also be significant savings. Automation means reducing emissions. If there is an electric mobility that is fed by renewable energy, this actually means mobility without emissions. We have – and we have heard this very clearly in the survey we have held in Parliament – of course major problems. This concerns mainly industrial technologies. Mr President-in-Office Eder said that over the next ten years he saw no way of reversing technology. Why doesn't he see her? – There is the possibility to produce CO2-free steel. Only: If we produce it at a significantly higher selling price than that, for example, the Indians or the Chinese, then we do not apply our steel anymore. The great advantage of this international agreement is that all of us are getting out and out of business at the same time. That means: The world economy is changing. 178 states – possibly with the exception of the Freedom Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Now the question is: How far are we in the political discourse? There we are even more in the Stone Age. This reminds me very much of the following: In the early 1990s, if we had come back to our present technological stand, we would have told people: There's a smartphone there, you can do your whole calendar, you can organize virtual staff, you can book a trip, you can do your purchases, you can do any kind of order, you can do your banking business, you may need if you're in a service area, you can't even leave your apartment and work to the full extent, you can communicate with your children, although they're at the other end of the world, and you can see them in good quality too!, then they would have thought that's spinning, that's never going to be the case, and if, then only the super-richs will be able to use it. And precisely in this situation, we are today when we are talking about the need to change systems. This means, for example, in the energy sector: At some point electricity will cost as much as nothing. But the entrances will cost a little. At some point people will almost no longer buy cars, but they will have to finance the access and the routes. Our task as a policy is to accompany this process. And above all, it is our task, or it is for us NEOS at least clear that we want to see Austria as a pioneer in environmental technology, but also as a pioneer in the matter of grandson fitness. We don't want to be one of the last. Not only do we want to benefit from environmental technology, but we really want to take a certain lead in this political process. As far as the next parliamentary process is concerned, I would like to address an essential point. We were there in Paris – and I thank the Minister for that – and we have taken a very active role in that. We have completed the survey, which is relatively toothless, if you don't do anything afterwards, quite quickly. We are also very quick to ratify. However, you have to say honestly: All the proposals that exist – and we are now talking about very concrete proposals that need to be implemented immediately – have been on the table for several years. [[Abg. Brunner: But you missed her, I can remember!]] The Greens have done a lot of preliminary work before, and we NEOS, since we have been in Parliament, too. [[Abg. Brunner: You postponed her!]] I expect very active steps from autumn on, otherwise we will have to take a step forward as an opposition. Very concrete: What I am honestly missing from some of the political groups – especially when I have let the debates of the last two days take place – is enthusiasm and passion when it comes to this issue. We've done a great deal. We've done history. Austria has made an important contribution to this issue. If I were to form a little kitschy now, I'd say: We're just trying to save our planet. But you will find there a tonality and a passion as if you were any 54. Novelle would say goodbye. I'm asking for something more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2452	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2473	Madam President. Minister! Yes, this Paris agreement is a historic event that we ratify with today's decision and that will only enter into force if it has ratified at least 55 states. I think that will succeed, with how to say so beautifully in Austrian: A gmahde Wiesn is not!, in view of the fact that the Republican presidential candidates in the US have already announced that they want to cancel this treaty again. [[Abg. Brunner: They can't do that!]] – Obama has signed, but they announce that they will start attempts to cancel this contract. [[Abg. Brunner: No, the US can't do that!]] I say yes: Let's think positively! Let us say that this agreement is almost already ratified! But that is actually only the beginning, the beginning of a long way, because signing this agreement is just one step, many more will have to follow. In concrete terms, measures are already on the table. It is above all a question of political will, and that is not only about what, but above all about the when. We have heard that the survey here in Parliament has come from various pages of very interesting inputs. Many speakers have expressed very interesting views there. Unfortunately, they have also said that if we continue to emit this, then the climate targets will definitely not be achieved in five to six years. We were all on the morning of the adoption of Federal President Fischer, and he said something that, I hope, not only gave me much to think, namely: Life is called change, and change is not always something very pleasant. That's right! But I think we are all aware that we now have to change something, even if it is not pleasant at the first, perhaps the second step. [[In the case of the Stronach team and the Abg. Brunner.]] At the survey I also liked the sentence of the representative of GLOBAL 2000, by Johannes Wahlmüller. He said that we must now take advantage of the opportunity to avoid having to ask ourselves the question of how little we could do with so much knowledge. – I would like to stress that twice. It is time to finally let the will follow. And that we don't get around the energy turnaround, we know that we've also come to know about this – a challenge that we should, however, tackle positively and see as a chance, for an economic incentive, a close-up between the economy and the environment. That is the only way we think it can work! I would also like to use this opportunity to involve TTIP, especially in view of the fact that a press release has just come out that EU Commissioner Jean-Claude Juncker has said very well that TTIP will be completed by the end of the year. I fear that we will have to warn again about the environmental impact of CETA, TTIP and TiSA. Even such intensive efforts in climate protection are unfortunately carried out ad absurdly if investor protection allows actions due to negative EIA decisions or water protection requirements. Apart from that, this would be a very, very expensive fun before loud comparison payments. I believe and hope that we agree that this money would definitely be better invested elsewhere.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2536	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2557	Madam President. High house! Today's ratification decision for the World Climate Agreement, the Paris Agreement, is probably one of the most important legislative decisions in this legislative period, by being the first of three EU Member States and as 20. Country around the world ratifys this historic, global, universal climate agreement. I think we can be proud that we have worked so fast and that by a very broad majority here in the House at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the basis of the proposal of the Federal Government, we have set the course of deciding very quickly here to ratify it. We are also committed at European level to the rapid ratification by the European Union. At the June meeting in the Environment Council, all 28 Member States took a decision that the ratification of the European institutions should continue this year. The Commission's proposal on this is already in place. I assume that this decision can also be made in autumn. It is indeed a historic decision if 178 countries of this world have signed this global climate agreement – as has been said today, 20 countries of this world have already ratified it. And if for the first time – not only unilaterally – the European Union, which is going through European states on reduction commitments, but for the first time the State community is also committed to reducing commitments by the major issuers such as the USA, China and the large emerging countries, this is a historic decision towards decarbonisation of our energy systems, towards decarbonisation of our mobility systems, just a CO2-neutral future for our children. I think that's the only right way we've taken in this direction. I am glad that we conducted a very broad parliamentary debate at the parliamentary survey chaired by Mrs Brunner, which was very constructive. I have also been there with Jörg Leichtfried to carry out the starting point of this discussion. In the various sectors and panels where discussions were held, very constructive and good ideas for a CO2-free future have been put in place. I appreciate this parliamentary process. We will also have to continue the debate on concrete implementation in the autumn. In parallel, we have launched a consultation process to develop an integrated climate and energy strategy. There is a Green Paper of four resorts: the energy resort, the social resort, the transport resort and my resort. The Green Paper provides the basis for the consultation process. We've got 5 on the 5th. July released the online consultation. Everyone can participate in this process. And I urge you all to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, smoke! You have actually presented the rejection of your group very half-heartedly. If I recall talking to your predecessor Norbert Hofer, the environmental speaker of your group, I think it would not have been possible to reject your group during its function as environmental spokesperson. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] You know it yourself, Mr Deimek – he's not here now, unfortunately, but I assume... [[Abg. Deimek: Here!]] Ah, there he is! I assume that Mr Eder, who has been quoted so many times, is already swallowing today. Please don't do that to him, because he's already very, very much further. He and the Austrian industry are much further away than you have presented this today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly! In Texas and South America! They're still on, that's right!]] They are very climate-active on their way. [[Abg. Deimek:... in Brazil!]] And there has been a demand from the Austrian industry that there should be this universal agreement. That is why we have just taken up this agreement. Mr Deimek! I had hoped that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection would give the light of knowledge to your group. Unfortunately, we have to find today that this was a missed hope that you are still in the corner of darkness. [[Abg. Deimek: You don't have a shimmer, let alone an idea!]] You are voting against this agreement today. That means you are voting against the future of your children! You vote against the clean environment! [[Abg. Deimek: You're destroying the Austrian jobs!]] You vote against the climate! You're voting against our country! – Take note! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Deimek: You're a shame!]] They are voting against our viable Austria! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2704	Next, Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2725	Madam President. Mr Minister, thank you for your words and for your beneficial clarifications, as well as for your commitment during the days in Paris, the days before and the weeks thereafter. We expressly expressly welcome a broad agreement on global climate protection, since the world now has a recognised instrument that strengthens global climate protection. And if the State community takes the Treaty seriously and increases its energy and climate-related efforts and, of course, investment, it also results in – and I see this positively, because I am going to be positive about things – opportunities for the Austrian economy. The agreement and the transformation of the global energy system open up new opportunities for the domestic economy as a technology leader. We see Austria as a driver and promoter of a Green Tech Economy. In developing low-carbon technologies in the field of energy-intensive industries, Europe must prove its strengths. However, this requires that Europe remains the location of these industries, and it needs to be done, ladies and gentlemen, a policy that creates sufficient incentives and framework conditions for innovation to ensure that products and services can be produced within the EU. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] At the same time, it needs flank protection for the economy, because only an economically strong Europe can be the indispensable pacemaker of global climate protection. That is why I think it is good that there is this agreement and that there are rules around the world. Singles and one-sided targets are, hopefully, part of the past, because there was and still there is a danger that investments in the field of energy-intensive industries will not first be made at the site and, subsequently, the energy-intensive industry will also be located in other economic areas. This would have resulted in a maximum and, at best, a zero-sum game for climate protection. [[Abg. Brunner: Is this a counter address now?]] [[Abg. Deimek: That's exactly what's going to happen!]] I therefore continue to call for the protection of this industry from carbon leakage. The Director-General of Voest Dr. Wolfgang Eder – who has been quoted several times today – has told us impressively about the importance of the energy-intensive industry. Global climate protection is one of the major challenges of our time that the economy, industry, has faced – not only for a few years, but for a long time. We from the economy see ourselves as a problem solver and as a technology developer and accept this challenge. As a Stakeholder and here in the High House, we are all required to work together constructively, objectively and without extreme positions. This also applies to the development of a climate and energy strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2778	Mr Plessl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2799	Mr President. Minister! Dear colleagues! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! I am glad that we are doing this ratification today. If I have heard from my previous speakers that we are one of the first countries not only in Europe, but also in the world, who are doing this ratification that decides this Treaty of Paris, then I know we are on the right path, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We do not only have this agreement very quickly, namely on 22. June, in the Environment Committee, where we have only made a decision by a majority, because FPÖ has not gone along, but we have already conducted a survey a day later – a survey in which we have received many interesting experiences from specialists, from experts. This survey has been carried out on the initiative of the government parties, but – and this is very important to confirm here – all the parties here in the National Council have agreed together for this survey, ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard a lot, and I would like to add a few comments from my previous speakers or to take a closer look at them. Mr Rauch, the energy autarchy you mentioned, already exists in some federal states. If I look at how much alternative energy has already been generated with wind energy in Burgenland or in Lower Austria, I think that is the way we want to go. If we want to go this way, we also need the necessary power lines, and there is still some need for expansion in some areas. We cannot say on the one hand, we are building out alternative energy if on the other hand the necessary lines are not available. [[towards Greens]] We have also been told by the specialists that we have a large area in traffic where we could save CO2 and where we could manage it relatively easily with the mineral oil tax. But, ladies and gentlemen, when you turn this girl, it is also about other aspects. This is about those people who also have to drive to the workplace, the commuters who depend on the vehicle, because public transport is unfortunately not yet so far advanced. [[Abg. Deimek: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Brunner: We need to change that!]] We need joint considerations, not just those of Austria, but considerations of Europe and global considerations, and it is very sad that the FPÖ does not have this far-sighted view, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to address one thing because it has always been mentioned here: Well, what's the next step? – There are many, many discussions, there are many suggestions we have received, and we will also remember some measures at the next Committee meetings. In this context, it is about space heating and whether it would be more sensible to ensure these with alternative energy supply and to support them here than to promote oil heating. There are already some incentives that we want to put in place, but we want one, and that is what we stand for: We also want to make this socially compatible. And every citizen in our country must also have the right to afford the necessary energy. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wenninger.]] Finally, another suggestion: We all – every individual in our state, every Austrian, every Austrian, every citizen in our state – can easily do something about it by buying Austrian, regional products. That would be a valuable contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2864	Mrs Mag. Brunner will be next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e2933	Mr President. Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators, you here in the house and at home! It's about this ball: once again in Paris, but today also right here. [[Keeping the ball just described in height]] ==References== December of last year there was a historic moment in Paris: The state community has decided to do something and has decided on the global climate agreement. That was a clear signal! This was a clear signal that policy can work together on solutions, work together on solutions, and it was also a very clear signal that we are consistently addressing climate change. The Paris Agreement means that the age of fossil energies is over, and that means that by 2050 the industrial nations must have completely changed their society, their economy, their way of life, to 100 percent renewable energy and 0 percent fossil energy. I am particularly pleased – I am really pleased today – that Austria is the third country in the European Union that wants to ratify this climate agreement. We put a sign with this: We are giving impetus to the entry into force of this climate agreement, but we are committed and committed to the objectives of this climate agreement. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We Greens have already submitted a motion for ratification in April, which at that time has not found a majority. However, the Minister for the Environment has sent a government paper to the House, and I would also like to thank you and your House for being able to create this today and decide together. [[towards Federal Minister Rupprechter]] The content of this global climate agreement – 100 percent renewable energy, 0 percent fossil energy – now also applies to Austria. This is, and I do not want to hide it, a great challenge, but it is an even greater opportunity when we deal with it together. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Like the colleague, Mr Weigerstorfer, I too have found this sentence by President Heinz Fischer to be very interesting today on change. Change is taking place. The climate agreement means change, but also climate change, and we can now be afraid of this change or we can look forward to it. And we can decide whether we're going to be overwhelmed by this change and then somehow go after it, or whether we're going to do it now, shape this change and take advantage of the opportunities of this change. - I'm for second. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you somehow change it – some say that this change is the biggest one we have had to vote since the Second World War – and because jobs are constantly being put into play, I think: At the time when the car was already in place, it was irresponsible to talk to the people: Make a hustle and bustle teaching! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rauch.]] – We are now again in such a phase of change, and we must now consider: What are the professions of the future? What are the opportunities for our future economy? – Those who want to be there in ten years now rely on this climate agreement! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The survey we held here a few weeks ago also brought a wide-ranging discussion on this subject, and the message, the result was very clear: This house has to act now. We don't have time to lose any more! I would like to mention a number that Mrs. Kromp-Kolb has put into play: 14 years, 14 years, we still have a budget for carbon emissions if we continue as before. 14 years are not much, and after these 14 years it is over. The sooner we act, the more time we have for the more difficult areas, such as industry. That means: Now it's an hour's commandment. There are no more excuses. Confessions are too little, we have to act now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am pleased that everyone is involved in the criticism of the FPÖ, which does not want to participate here. – In the direction of everyone else who wants to participate in the climate agreement: Whoever says A has to say B, too. I therefore believe that we must also decide on measures, and I hope that the implementation of the climate agreement will be equally broad. I would like to make two requests to that effect. If we wait until autumn until the committees run back, we will have lost one year until the next climate conference. We can't afford that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I quickly implement the motion for a resolution tabled by Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Christiane Brunner, colleagues on the Paris climate agreement, which was distributed to you. This is about emergency measures, which have been clearly identified in the survey: We don't need to discuss this anymore, and we don't need a strategy anymore. We know we just have to do it! I would like to make one more request because I believe that we also need a strategy, which is until we actually create the final changeover by 2050. In this respect, I would like to re-establish the motion for a resolution by Mr Brunner, colleagues, on consultation on the energy strategy and define objectives. We need a decarbonisation strategy by 2050. What the Federal Government – and you have referred to the Energy Strategy, Mr Minister – is completely inadequate in terms of the objectives. She's more likely to question the goals. An energy strategy must now be aligned according to the objectives of this climate agreement, which we decide here today, and everything else is insidious, and it must also ensure how the public is involved. There is great excitement in the environment and energy scene, because integration is not clear: because it is not clear who is taken seriously and who is not, because it is not clear how the process is going, where there are feedbacks and where not, whose opinion is actually taken into account and who is not. This Parliament must now act. To make this clear: Today we have the opportunity to make an appeal to the implementation of the climate agreement in Austria. Today, we have the opportunity to also launch a positive future in Austria to save this beautiful globe and also for a positive future for our country. [[Keeping the football described at the beginning of the speech in height]] The ball is with us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3085	Mrs Mag. Mr Brunner's motions for resolutions, which have just been presented in their main points, are also available in writing, they are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. They have already been copied and distributed to Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, with regard to a motion for a resolution, that is: Quick implementation of the Paris climate agreement, a vote has been called for, and it will take place after the last two speakers I still have on the speaker list, according to the current status of the speaker list. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3385	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3406	Mr President. Federal Minister! As a sports speaker, I really like the symbolism that in the case of green-blue earthball here is going through the series – that really fits well together – but the decisive thing is that the ball, which is located here at Colleague Brunner, is now in play and that you do everything together to keep the ball in play. Unfortunately, it is, and this is a pity that the FPÖ does not participate, because we should actually design the game together and not just watch from the gallery. [[Abg. Deimek: But your method of ratifying and then doing nothing is not right either!]] I would have liked everyone to be in the game, so to speak, and not to have a team from Parliament in this important match for the whole world. I also hope that he doesn't like some other matchball in Paris and that this ball will go out of the air because it's harmful, but I think we should see that this ball stays in the game for a long time and that it will be an excellent match. But again back to Paris: I think we can only congratulate the Minister. The European Union's efforts in recent years to reach a Treaty of Paris, signed by all, which takes account not only of industrialized countries, but also of developing countries, or which are also included in it, were crucial. But I think it's much more crucial that you get into the ball right now. I see this as a Tyrolean: If I look at some hydropower project – it's about alternative energies – then I think you might have to decide a lot faster or decide more courageously. I know that this is not always easy with all the procedures, but I mean, if we say A, then we should also say B and use all the methods available in renewable energies and, above all, in hydropower. To the end: I think climate change also has a lot to do with security, and I believe that the Paris Treaty can give security, because I believe that we simply have to guarantee it to the world population, namely security. And I believe that the issue of security in the environmental field is becoming more and more important, when you look at what is happening on your own because of migration, even because of migration due to climate change. There is this migration due to climate change. All these are things to stop, but it's really crucial now to keep the ball in the game, so to speak, starting. I would just like this to be done unanimously, but opinions are to be respected. The fact that not all are involved is quite natural in democracy, but the signal would have been even more beautiful. I would simply like to congratulate the Federal Minister once again on the negotiations and the results in Paris. I think it's been done well. I am also sure – as emotional as your speech was today – that we are starting now and that exactly this treaty of Paris and the implementation measures are in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3443	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3464	Mr President. Federal Minister! Human-induced carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, such as methane, industrial gases and so on, have increased the temperature in the Earth's atmosphere and the oceans quite rapidly over the last decades. In the global fight against this climate change, all States agreed to a global climate agreement with ambitious and legally binding commitments at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris in December 2015. All States have signed this historic agreement and are committed to implementing its objectives nationally. The objective is indeed to reduce the emissions of climate gases net to zero by 2050; the increase in average earth temperature should be limited as far as possible to 1.5 degrees Celsius, but at least to 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial level. All the countries will have to make their contributions, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve this goal, which is so important to all of us. But, ladies and gentlemen – and this is the point that is going to come forward – all involved must be involved. I would like to make it clear here: Director-General Eder has not spoken in favour of this global climate agreement either in the poll or elsewhere, but he has expressed his concern, as I have it outside. The voestalpine is a global operating global company that is facing a tough competition against steel companies from all over the world, and the location of voestalpine here in Austria is a demonstration project in terms of environmental protection. It is considered the cleanest steel plant in the world, because in recent years billions of euros have been invested in environmental protection in these plants. However, the limits and provisions in force in our country are very strict, especially with regard to the main competitors from China, the USA and Russia and, of course, bring a massive competitive disadvantage to this company. That is why my call is directed primarily towards the countries mentioned, namely that these must necessarily move in a certain parallelity with us in order to ensure the conditions of free trade and the same global environmental conditions for all. This begins with highly subsidized steel from China and goes to environmental destruction through fracking in the USA. Environmental protection, ladies and gentlemen - of course and undisputed for all, but not only at the expense of the voestalpine's location conditions and certainly not at the expense of our jobs, because of these environmental inequalities, as they currently exist worldwide!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3507	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3544	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In a short time to this point: Of course, we support this agreement. It is a historic opportunity when 178 states declare themselves ready to cooperate. But, Minister, we must now take action and get away from the declarations of intent. Whoever happened to switch to the “Eco” broadcast yesterday after the football game has seen the contribution to the climate, which is really happening with the climate, with warming in Antarctica. Not only do we have the feeling of warming, but it actually takes place. I therefore took the ship with me because this ship of course also carries the valuable palm oil ( another board with a bar chart and the heading "The top ten importers of palm oil worldwide (in million). Ton)’ having regard to the speaker’s seat. [[pointing to the table]] Mr Minister, this issue must be included in such climate agreements in particular! It can't be that the earth's surface changes by 1,000 hectares per hour and that's not a subject! Mrs. Brunner, your ball before, that's great, that's funny, but the development that palm oil is used for biofuels, substitute foods up to daily cosmetics and daily food on the table must be taken into account. Mr. Wenninger, you talked about the Green Jobs! – But we need to see what is actually happening. Mr Keck has just mentioned the Voest and the industrial companies, who are super-worked and cannot, of course, be disadvantaged in the international equinox. But: The biomass power plant in Timelkam was shut down seven months ago by Energie AG, the biomass plant at FACC in Ried was levelled to the ground, and instead – in this area there are no Russian sanctions – is now heated with Russian gas. I believe that we must also start there and say that these are regional jobs, which would be real green jobs – green jobs to manage the forest in order to deliver the regional heat. There are jobs in biomass works. That is what we must live to do, and with it we can start in our own country. Ladies and gentlemen. Since I am not speaking on the next point concerning nuclear power plant Krško, I would like to say one thing: compulsory liability insurance. We read it yesterday in the “FAZ”: The German Commission, which was specially set up to find a place for Gorleben, did not do anything again. The energy is fairly taxed, every company needs liability insurance – also a nuclear power plant, then it is once worked with the same weapons. [[==References====External links== Wöger.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3591	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We come to the votes. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Convention of Paris, in 1193 and in 1193 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[Congratulations to the Federal Minister Rupprechter and to SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] We shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for the purposes of Article 50(2). 2 Z 4 Federal Constitutional Act is to be fulfilled by passed laws. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, on: Implementation of the Paris climate agreement quickly. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, this vote must be taken. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the procedure! Please use the polls that are in your pult’s store, they are called “Yes” or “No”. For the vote, please use only these votes! In accordance with Rules of Procedure, Members are called on and asked to put the voting paper into the urn provided. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to vote in favour of the 'Yes' vote, those who vote against to put 'No' vote in the mood. Please also make sure that you only throw a vote! I now ask the writer, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3702	The vote will end. I ask the House officials to make the statement under the supervision of the scribes. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3740	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 152; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 21; ‘No’ votes: 131. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. [[See correction by President Hofer, p. 58.]] The Members voted with ‘Yes’ (corrected version): Aslan; Brosz, Brunner; Glavischig-Piesczek; Jarmer; cook, kogler, korun; Light-ignition reciprocating device; Maurer, Moser, Mückstein; Oils; Pirklhuber; Rossmann; Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Steinhauser; Walser, Willi, Windbüchler-Sauschill. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Amon Werner, Angerer, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Belakovich-Jenewein, Berlakovich, Brückl, Buchmayr; Cap; Deimek, Diesner-Wais, Dietrich, Doppler, perforation; Ecker, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fichtinger Angela, Franz, Fuchs; Gahr, Gamon Claudia Angela, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hagen, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Hechtl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg, Hübner; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Kassinger, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Klinger, Klug, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kumpitsch, Kuntzl; Lasar, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Lintl, Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Matznetter, mölzer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Pock, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rauch Johannes, Rauch Walter, Rosary Walter; Gift, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, jewelry beater, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Strache, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter, Vogl; Refusal torfer, Wenninger, Wimmer, Winter, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela, Worm Peter; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3913	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen: Redesign consultation on the energy strategy and define objectives. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[14:33:38]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1725/A(E) by Mr Walter Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, on action against the extension of the duration of the Krško nuclear power station (1199, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1726/A(E) by Mr Walter Rauch, colleagues, on the prevention of the use of nuclear energy from EU funds (1200 d.a.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1727/A(E) by Mr Walter Rauch, colleagues, on the mandate of an expert commission to examine the seismological and geological situation in relation to the Krško nuclear power station (1201 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e3980	We shall continue with points 2 to 4 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. No oral reporting is required. First word message: Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4007	Mr President. Mr Rupprechter, I have to make a brief replicate of your emotional speech, which you have held here in this House on this Paris Agreement. I'm telling you what we're talking about: We stand – once again, if you do not believe it – for hydropower, for solar power and for wind power. That's our way! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And we are against this trade in certificates, which does not bring any environmental policy action to this State and that country in the final effect. That's our way! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] And I would have expected more honesty from your group and from you. Big sayings knock and in the final effect few content – that's the point from your page! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I come to the current subject. [[Abg. Schönegger: words! Words!]] – Wordplay, Mr Schönegger, is from your side quite, very bad, I would be quite calm in your place, that is the most skilled! Krško – the topic in Austria. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] My three requests are as follows: Request concerning the prevention of nuclear energy promotions from EU resources; the second: Request concerning action against the extension of the duration of the Krško nuclear power station; and the third: Request concerning the mandate of an expert commission to examine the seismological and geological situation regarding the KRško nuclear power station. For all who do not know: Krško – located in German Gurkfeld, 27 500 inhabitants, in Slovenia, in 1918 historically still part of the Lower Styria. In 1981, this nuclear power plant was built with a term of 40 years, and now it has been extended to 62 years until 2043. This power station supplies 40 percent of Slovenian electricity and 15 percent for Croatian needs. This nuclear power plant is located 70 kilometres near our state border – a risk milestone! – and is on an earthquake line. . I would like to say that you, all of us, especially the Federal Government, are required to use all the opportunities at EU level to bring this issue to the fore in order to ensure our security and also to undermine it with appropriate measures. ==References== ==References====External links== Let us not forget the disaster in Chernobyl, even Fukushima, so I believe that we are already required on the Austrian side to act accordingly on the negotiating path. That would be our contribution to this issue, and I would ask you to take action in this regard and not only to support it with empty promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4071	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4092	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I live in a border region and can say - as mentioned - that since Chernobyl people have simply had a negative attitude against nuclear power. "Spiegel Online" reported on the EU Commission that nuclear power should be substantially strengthened in Europe. This has caused a great deal of misunderstanding in Austria and Germany. Mr. Rauch! The Austrian Federal Government does not regard nuclear power as a sustainable form and is vehemenced against any kind of promotion of nuclear energy and against the construction of nuclear power plants. [[Abg. Walter Rauch: We promote this!]] End-of-life storage and recovery are expensive and a great health risk. If only a small mistake happens, this will be a great damage and a great burden for our next generations. The neglect of the follow-up costs, so to speak, in the final storage of nuclear energy makes it falsely cheap and delays the energy transition that we really want in Europe and, above all, in Austria. Every discussion must therefore make it clear that we want to promote renewable energy and stop nuclear energy policy in Europe. At the beginning of June, Austria has also refused to grant further funding to the EU Energy Council. We need much more to promote renewable energy. That is why I would also like to point out, in the direction of our coalition partner, that the small novelle would be very important in the eco electricity law, because it would be very important for biogas, small hydropower and wind power in particular. In March 2016, our Minister Rupprechter presented the initiative for an energy transition contract to his counterparts in Europe. But now on the subject of border-related power plants: It is important to point to the improvement that security will be ensured in the future. And now to the KKW Krško: The Austrian Federal Government has been dealing with this for decades. We are firmly convinced, too, that there must be an earthquake security and that we must also be in it. The new findings of the Libna rejection have just shown that these earthquakes can cause. We therefore call for further investigations under the Nuclear Information Agreement to be carried out in order to ensure safety. We have also succeeded in drawing up a six-party proposal from your request, Mr Rauch, in which it is not only a power plant but, in general, a power plant – particularly near the border, where we are particularly concerned – so that its operation will no longer be extended in the future. In fact, I can only remind you of this: 30 years of Chernobyl – you have already mentioned it – five years of Fukushima. There are real risks that we and also our next generations have, and with this technology many bad things are given. We are for renewable energy, for sustainability. We have also shown this by entering the climate agreement at the previous item on the agenda. As a third country, we have ratified it here in Austria. In conclusion, I would like to make another request from all six parties, because there has been a small editorial correction: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, we stand for a Europe without nuclear power, for a Europe of renewable energy and for our next generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4164	Mr Köchl was mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4185	Dear Members! Dear colleagues! With regard to nuclear power, we have managed to achieve what we have not achieved before in the field of climate protection, namely a six-party proposal, exactly three proposals, which are carried by all the political groups here in the House. It would actually be nice if we were to get there in terms of climate protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Unfortunately, climate protection is also often a pretext for the expansion of nuclear power. At EU level, it is always argued that gas supply should be less dependent on Russia, and CO2 is used as an argument. We don't share the argument at all. Nuclear power is not a measure for climate protection, which is in fact undisputed among the scientists, and we still have this discussion. We currently have 14 EU countries with 131 nuclear power plants. That's not little. And we have a massive debate because the nuclear industry – and I say consciously: the nuclear industry – is actually in the last breaths. This is a very capital intensive industry. This has relatively little to do with democracy. This does not even have something to do with the market economy, which you realize when you look at the prices. The nuclear industry, as it is present, is extremely humane. You just need to look at: Who cleans up in Japan? Who cleans up in France? Who cleans up in the nuclear power plants? – This is almost a slave market. These are mafia-like structures, otherwise no more employees are found to carry out cleaning activities. And if you look around who is still planning nuclear power plants, you come to Belarus relatively quickly – with Russian help. Well, that's not exactly a very strong democracy. One comes to Hungary, where a large project – again with Russian help – is discussed outside of all transparency and from our point of view also not EU-compliant. Or you can even look at Japan, where former Prime Minister Naoto Kan pointed out that, four years ago, 100 MPs in the parliament in Japan had been bribed by Tepco. This is not an allegation, but it is now proven to be – 100 vilified Members. This, of course, ensures a slightly more atom-friendly mood in Japan, which is just like that. If, in countries such as Belarus, where US$235 billion of damage has been proven – only in Belarus – due to the Chernobyl disaster, more nuclear power plants are planned, then this has nothing to do with reason or with anything about science. They probably also know that the original residual risk assessments were much more optimistic. The insurance industry originally assumed that every 10,000 years there is an accident. Reality has already overtaken us very quickly. The good news in this case is probably the market economy. If you're watching: When photovoltaic power supplies are advertised in Germany, the price for photovoltaic kilowatt hours is already reached in about 6.9 cents, and in the UK more than 11.5 cents, i.e. almost double, are discussed in order to be able to expand the Hankley Point. That is, we are actually quite optimistic that the market economy is helping us because nuclear power is unprofitable and extremely expensive. We are not yet talking about disposal, because it has not yet been solved. In this sense, no nuclear power stations can normally be built under democratic conditions under market conditions. But unfortunately, it is not everywhere as perfect as we would wish. If you now look at what is happening in Krško, then you realize that it is of course useful that you do not make a runtime extension, and you do not even make sense to think of a second nuclear power station in the area of earthquake lines. If you look at Belgium, you can see that the reactors of the two power plants – which is almost absurd – have to preheat the cooling water at the moment, because, due to the 1,000 microcrusses in the reactor tanks of the reactor tanks, the cold cooling water can no longer be tolerated, so the nuclear supervisory authority has currently required that the cooling water be temperatured, otherwise something could happen. So the current status of the discussion is. Krško is only about three hours away from Austria, should an atomic cloud come from there – that is terrifying enough –; we also know that all the protective measures do not help at all. I also brought a violin counter today – I hope I will never need it. [[Keeping them in height]] In Chernobyl, you've seen what's happening. As far as Chernobyl is concerned, I have just read that a technician said he didn't wear a protective suit, because the protective suit held up up to half of the radiation. But if he walks around like a teddy bear and moves very slowly, he would have gotten more radiation than if he walked around in Chernobyl without a protective suit, as he can move faster. – You have to imagine that! It's an insanity, which is part of it. I believe that it will be very helpful in the debate if we, as the Austrian Parliament, are constantly making the risk of terrorism at European level. We also have to say to the minireactors, which are planned and are to be much stronger in the future, that when many small decentralized minireactors come, we actually have a terrorist problem – that is definitely so. We can come with democracy and we can come with the market economy. In this sense, we really have all the arguments on our side and can be proud that we, as Austria, are driving such a single line in nuclear policy. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4265	Mr Buchmayr has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4286	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! TOP 4 is, as we have heard, about applications for the Krško AKW, which have a duration extension or the prevention of the promotion of the AKW with public funds and also the demand for additional seismological and geological investigations related to Krško. Therefore, no majority in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have been found in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, because there are already decided and more comprehensive positions against nuclear power plants in the National Council. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the the government is invited to take action against all nuclear power stations, particularly near the border. Krško, as we have heard, is a particularly good example of the high risk of a nuclear power station operating on an earthquake line. But how critical the situation in Europe is is an up-to-date report. Thus, the most dangerous nuclear power stations in Ukraine, France, Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Great Britain and Germany are located almost everywhere. The greatest risk: The average age of these plants is already 30.6 years. We are not yet talking about risk potentials with economic crisis, management problems, war conflicts, sabotage, targeted terror, technical inadequacy, material fatigue, slutting and others. Each responsible nuclear expert now confirms: There is no really safe nuclear power station, and we sit statistically on a time bomb. The objective can therefore only be a complete exit from energy generation by nuclear power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4325	For the sake of order, the following is still to be observed: The amendment tabled by Mrs Diesner-Wais just a few minutes ago and also read in writing is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4394	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4415	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated audiences Here! I would like to sum up our position on this item on the agenda shortly. Of course, we support this six-party proposal. We believe it is crucial that we, as one of those European Member States, who are consciously abandoning nuclear energy, have both the opportunity and the responsibility, without, if I can formulate this so salopp, having to come before their own doorstep, to be able to influence other Member States, to take outdated and unsafe reactors off the grid at an early stage, and in general to force the expansion of sustainable and renewable energy forms. However, I would also like to say to the colleague of the Liberals why we have not been able to support the original request; you have also called on your original request to use all political, diplomatic and legal means to stop research supported by European funds. – And there we are very different, because this research leads to two essential things: One is that the existing technology is made safer. This means that we cannot force another Member State to shut down the reactor, but we can certainly support the fact that the reactors will at least become safer if they are not turned off. This would not be possible if we were to undermine this research. The second point is – and this is not about nuclear and nuclear energy in the sense we understand it: To technology never say! It is always important to promote research and to know in which areas we may find other forms of application for the future and for our society. That is why we do not want to prevent research in this area, which is supported by European funds. In general, I think it is a good step forward in the right direction to expand Austria's position as an anti-atomic state within the European family. In this sense, I wish all of us good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4457	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4479	Mr President. Minister! Also from our side in all short: Of course, we are absolutely positive about this mirror, which we decide together here, namely the mirror of the Austrian population. And it is also necessary; just a week ago there was the last earthquake in Krško. Well, it was only 2.2 on the judge scale, but only in 2 kilometers of depth. This shows that there is a real need for action. And I am very pleased that we have made a common request here. It is good that we become active, above all, in accordance with the current precautionary principle, because those not even 100 kilometres away from this nuclear power plant give us, I think, to think of all. At this point, the will of the population is that nuclear power should not be further promoted and not even further financed by means of tax money. If all costs are taken into account, especially in the case of final storage, nuclear power is not competitive, but only artificially preserved by subsidies. So the economic aspect is also an intolerable one. Apart from that, nuclear power remains a risk issue, which is why we also need to look a little closer at the EU regarding the mini-cars, which is being forced further in accordance with the European Energy Technology Strategy Plan. This is because higher subsidies for research, construction and expansion are being considered for this type of nuclear power. This means that there will be a lot more to be discussed, especially at EU level. But the Austrian position on nuclear power is known, and I hope that the Minister will continue to work very strongly for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4518	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4539	Mr. President-in-Office of the Council! High house! On these three agenda items concerning the Austrian anti-atomic policy, I can only say that you have in me a clear advocate of anti-atomic policy. As a student representative of the Austrian Student Union, I have already participated in the Anti-Zwentendorf People's Desire in 1978, worked actively and since then I have not changed my assessment. I am very glad that we have a very broad national basic consensus here in the House – which is also shown by the report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – which strongly strengthens the Austrian Federal Government's position on this issue. It is true what Mr Köchl says, especially in these days, that it is so important to counter the argument that nuclear policy or nuclear energy would actually be a climate-friendly form of energy. And there is a renaissance of nuclear energy at European level, which is shocking after the events in Chernobyl 30 years ago or in Fukushima 5 years ago I would ask you, Mr Köchl, to inform your colleagues in the political groups in Sweden, for example. Because I've already been quite amazed that a few weeks ago Her group colleagues in Sweden agreed that ten new nuclear power plants had been set in motion, with the agreement of the Green Minister for Energy, with the agreement of the Green Minister for the Environment. [[Abg. Walter Rauch: A madness!]] [[Call the ÖVP: A madness!]] This is really a shocking development, and I would ask you to act against it together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It must not come to a renaissance of nuclear energy under the guise of climate policy in Europe! Nuclear energy is a high-risk technology that puts on generations beyond its offspring and is therefore not a sustainable form of energy. Now to the individual applications. . A lot has already been said in the debates. For the change in maturity: Of course, we are in principle refusing to change the term. Where they take place, we strongly support the fact that there is at least one treatment after the environmental impact assessment and an EIA test under the Espoo Agreement, that is, cross-border. This has happened in Paks, and we also have positive signals that there will also be an EIA at least in connection with an extension of the term for Krško, which is cross-border. This could, as it looks, start in 2020. We will, of course, be fully involved here. We must also strongly oppose the promotion of nuclear energy. We don't need any new investments. We do not need state aid for nuclear power plants, but we need funding, research and innovation in the field of energy transition – to the new renewable energy forms. That is where I am with you, Mr Deputies Rauch. This is the energy future: renewable energy sources. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is precisely in this direction that our energy transition protocol, which we have introduced at European level, goes. And there are already some first fruits. If I may point out: At the Council of Energy Ministers in Luxembourg on 6 June. In June, Luxembourg, Germany, Greece and Austria issued a joint written declaration that the use of funds from the European Union for nuclear energy projects should be strictly rejected. If we need some exit at European level, it is the phasing out of the nuclear contract, from the EURATOM Treaty. That's what I'm going to do. We should do so with joint effort at European level. The question of seismological danger is in fact very complex. Mrs Diesner-Wais has presented this in great detail. Austria has been working intensively on this for 25 years. There is also new evidence on the issue of earthquake security, which the honourable Member has also pointed out. There are indeed the latest geological findings that could cause severe earthquakes in the future, originally estimated as an inactive Libna rejection. We are confident that these new findings will also be based on the bilateral nuclear information agreement with Slovenia. We will, of course, be very committed to this. In this sense, I am pleased that the unanimous decisions on the resolutions coming from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Austrian path, can be continued with emphasis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4598	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Doppler has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4623	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda items 2 to 4 all cover the extension of the term and the promotion of nuclear power plants, especially those in the border area with Austria, from EU funds. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for us that the Federal Government is very energetic about the EU line that wants to strengthen the use of nuclear energy from nuclear power plants. I firmly reject that. There must be no extension of the duration of nuclear power plants, even from those in the border area with Austria. However, there must be no funding from EU funds, no cents. The Federal Government must be very vehement about it. We heard from the Minister that he was doing this. Mr. Minister! I would ask you to continue to do so in such a way as to ensure that there is a corresponding resistance. Minister! I would have another question to you, although you are not directly responsible: It's surprising that nuclear power plants just get an operating permit – I'm saying it that way – although you don't know how the End-to-end storage is to take place, how and where to dispose of these fuel rods, especially in such a way that they are in no way harmful to the population. Mr Minister, every housekeeper, when he builds a house, has to comply with the rules. That's right. But in the construction of nuclear power plants, only the desire for profit has been given priority, in no way has it been taken into account for man and nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4659	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4688	Mr President, thank you for the introduction. Federal Minister! I should like to add the comments of Mr Plessl, who unfortunately is not here now. He has already mentioned that Lower Austria and Burgenland are a pioneer that they are almost 100 percent energy autonomous on the road. I think that's the right way, dear friends of the FPÖ. This has not been underlined by the FPÖ in all, but in some respects in the same way. 30 years after Chernobyl, five years after Fukushima, we are still surrounded by 20 nuclear power plants. 14 states with nuclear power plants still have no solution for the final storage, they cannot say how they will cope with this over the next 10, 20 years. We must take this initiative against Slovenia in order to take into account the latest findings in the geological field, as opposed to the 1990s study. As President of the Civil Protection Association, I would also like to thank the Lower Austrian Civil Protection Association, which spoke with a cross-party delegation in Slovenia. I would like to draw the Green Group's attention once again to the situation in Sweden. The Federal Minister has already done this. I do not know the importance of the Green Group from Austria in Europe, but perhaps one could influence the Swedish colleagues in order to have a single line. Mr Köchl, you nod here. You didn't mention something in your speech: They said it was necessary to take action at European level to close nuclear power plants. There was an incident at the Philippsburg II nuclear power plant in Baden-Württemberg in April this year. It has been pretended that the controls are carried out, but they have not been carried out. There would also be a need for the Greens to do something. If we speak with one voice, then you are also cordially invited!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4725	This is what Mr Schmid has to say. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4746	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! On the EU's promotion of nuclear power stations: Austria, under Chancellor Kreisky, has declared itself majority against nuclear power in its own country. It should also be possible to assume that the outcome of this referendum is recognised by the EU. Austria is exposed to the risks of old and marod nuclear power plants in the immediate vicinity of the border. The operation of the KR Krško, for example, was initially set to 40 years. There is now a further operating authorisation by the Slovenian authorities up to 2043. The Krško AKW is located close to a seismic fracture line, which is affected by a high number of geological disorders. Taking into account the low distance of the site to Austria, we expect an increased security need for our population. Security must also be ensured by our Federal Government. With reference to the age of this power plant and the geological situation, a short-term decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power station should be sought. However, the EU intends to substantially strengthen nuclear power in Europe. The construction of flexible minireactors is envisaged. A prototype should go into operation in 2030. Financing will be provided through a research programme and through the European Investment Bank. With reference to the outcome of the referendum in Austria, we are well advised not to participate in such research programmes or in an expansion of nuclear energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4783	I call Mr Bacher. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4804	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! These agenda items deal with a delicate issue. It is about nuclear power plants and their impact on our lives. Despite all discussions about an exit from nuclear energy, nuclear power is currently a fixed part of our electricity supply. The fact that nuclear energy is not desirable for us has also been discussed many times in this House. We have spoken 40 years ago in Austria against nuclear power plants, not only because of the dangers posed by a nuclear power plant, but also because of the dangers posed by radioactive waste, as we know today. The disposal of radioactive waste has long been not just a national problem, but a global one. As consumers, we can choose our electricity supply provider ourselves today and also very easily change again. The annual accounts often also show the shares of each source of electricity. However, it would be for me if customers could see before deciding on a new provider how much the share of nuclear power is for individual suppliers. I think that this would be quite a legitimate access and also helpful in deciding for a new provider. Of course, it would also be interesting to know from which cars are fed in. I think it's almost perverse – apologise for this expression – that if I live in Kaprun – the symbol of hydropower – the electricity may come from a nuclear power plant. This brings me back to the EU: Only good cooperation between states in the EU allows for appropriate transparency. It doesn't help us if we say in isolation in Austria: We don't want nuclear power! That is why it is also important to be part of the EU so that the right measures can be put in place at European level. We are all in demand on the topic of nuclear power plants – all of us, because we are all Europeans!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4843	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4865	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! During a very emotional speech by you and an equally emotional call from me, I have needed the expression of the “disgusting” for the Republic. This expression does not, of course, correspond to the dignity of this House, and I therefore take it back with the expression of regret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4892	I thank you for this clarification. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Unterrainer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4916	==References== The Chernobyl disaster, as we have heard many times today, was April 1986. As the father of three children, I did not know what to do or what to do, except wait and do things to them. Mr President. Minister! We certainly all remember the nuclear accident in Fukushima, when five and a half years ago the next catastrophe happened with global damage. Japan's far away. Chernobyl is at least 1 050 kilometres from us. The time bomb it's about, but it's much closer: It's the Krško power plant. This power plant is on an earthquake line, as we have heard today. It is 250 kilometers away from us here in Vienna, which corresponds to the route to Salzburg or half of the route to Innsbruck, respectively Krško is four times closer than Chernobyl itself. If there is a disaster, then we will all come to the handcushion whether we want to or not. But above all, the question arises for me: Why is there nuclear power plants today? – The only good nuclear power plant is a decommissioned power plant. One thing is clear in times of windwheels, solar energy, global heat and many other energy sources: Nuclear power has actually been in operation, for energetic reasons, for safety reasons and, above all, for reasons of final storage. The issue of end-to-end storage is relatively not discussed, although it is a very important issue. The fact is that nuclear power plants produce special waste that will still cast its shadow on generations of people. I am also quite clear that funding will be provided to the operators for the construction and operation of nuclear power stations. This is a completely wrong approach. On the contrary, we send out a signal and we continue to put everything in motion to put the operator companies under pressure by means of legal means! However, we also send a signal to the Slovenian government that all parties in Austria are concerned that the concerns of the Austrian population can also be taken seriously! It cannot be in the spirit of the Slovenians responsible to risk their, our, yes, the children of Europe and put at risk the health of their own citizens! 30 years after Chernobyl, the damage, as we know, continues. As far as Krško is concerned, it is high time to act, and I therefore also support the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Plessl, Mr Höfinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which calls on the Federal Government and in particular the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and Security. to undertake all that is necessary to examine the seismological and geological situation of the Krško nuclear power station. Thank you, Minister, for your commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e4965	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1199 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1725/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the report drawn up by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. joint resolution on action against the extension of the duration of nuclear power plants. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 168.) We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1200 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1726/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Now we are voting on the resolution on prevention of nuclear energy funding from the EU's resources attached to the Committee's report 1200 of the Supplements. Mr Höfinger, Mr Weninger, Mr Rauch, Mr Köchl, Mr Pock, Mr Pock, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled a total amendment. I shall immediately vote on the resolution adopted by Mr Höfinger, Mr Weninger, Mr Rauch, Mr Köchl, Mr Pock, Mr Pock, Mr Refuserstorfer, Mr Cot, on the amendment tabled by Mr Höfinger, Mr Weninger. Who is for this, I am seeking a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 169.) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1201 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1727/A(E). I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we are voting on the resolution on the seismological and geological situation relating to the Krško nuclear power station attached to the Committee's report 1201. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 170.) [[15:16:32]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1184/A(E) by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues, on the introduction of a quality partnership for domestic gastronomy
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5087	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5114	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This request concerns a quality partnership with the gastronomy. Agriculture and gastronomy, this is a really interesting field of tension, but also a field of partnership that is to be guarded. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all: Food labelling and debate are a very important part of the climate change debate. Today, we have led an important start-up debate to the climate agreement. Finally, about 30 to 40 percent of climate-related problems lie in the field of land use, from rain forest destruction to feed, genetic engineering, palm oil and glycosate use. In concrete terms, it was about continuing to work in the field of food labelling where we were already in 2009, namely to implement a socio-ecological transformation in such a way that citizens in daily consumption have the opportunity to make their contribution to the climate change through the purchase of products – whether in the gastronomy, in the supermarket or also in the farmer market. I quote from the Government Convention, in the Health chapter it says clearly: “The implementation of a clear designation of origin of products and raw materials at EU level should provide consumers with reliable and secure information as well as protection against deception.” On this occasion I recall that in 2009, at the request of Mr Maier, Mr Tamandl, Mr Zanger, Mr Dolinschek and Mr Pirklhuber, it was decided in the National Council that the Federal Government should be asked to draw up a positive identification of the offer of gastronomy in relation to “the origin and method of production [...] of value-setting foods – here in the special meat, milk and eggs”. Ladies and gentlemen! The order from 2009 can only be renewed massively. On this occasion I would like to point out that there are unfortunately resistances in the Chamber of Commerce. I also say this as an agricultural representative who wants to implement climate change in the field of nutrition. There's a need for discussion. I would also like to mention that the AMA seal concept is still not consistent. I'm beating today's daily newspaper There's a two-sided listing with meat products, minus 50 percent and minus 25 percent, Austrian quality product, awarded with the AMA seal. [[keeping an up-to-date edition of the “Kronen Zeitung”]] How can such ads be financed? Precisely, with dumping prices, namely at the level of producers! That can't go on, my Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore make the following request, which is committed to the reform of the AMA seal: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is important, therefore, that the criteria for the AMA seal finally set out the non-genotechnic feeding system consistently. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] As I said, this is a requirement of the next steps. If we take climate protection seriously if we take origin identification seriously, we must close cycles, including in the feed sector, and produce protein feed as far as possible in Europe. In conclusion, I would like to say: We will support Mr Steinbichler's motion for a resolution here. At the same time, we also agree with this joint initiative, which is linked to the Committee's report, namely that we take first steps so that we can also start implementation in the field of gastronomy. I hope we'll deal with this together in the autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5207	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5280	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5301	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I come back to an item on the agenda of the previous meeting when, in the course of a presentation of the Financial Committee, we discussed the question of association events, the question of the host. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank, above all, those restaurants that are at the heart of the Austrian quality, buy out Austrian quality and bring the Austrian quality in their inn, to the restaurants on the menu. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] It is true that Mr Pirklhuber pointed out that this is also a matter of climate protection, because short transport routes are important, the guarantee of quality is also crucial for freshness. So we should take this much more to heart, for how did someone once say? – “Of course, quality costs, but missing quality costs more.” These words can only be fully accepted, for: What does good quality mean? – The customer and not the goods come back. High quality standards create and secure jobs in their own country, and, above all, domestic contracts are ensured. The joy of quality lasts longer than the joy of a favorable price. What will help me with a cheap price if the quality is inadequate? Quality can and should be worth something to us. Through the use of domestic and regional food, we not only ensure the existence of our farmers, but also jobs in the downstream and downstream areas, also in the gastronomy sector. Not for nothing is Austria the tourist country par excellence; foreign guests appreciate the quality in these farms, they appreciate what cooks are magic on the table. But above all, it is also a question of creating awareness that this quality is only possible because the quality is thus produced by farmers. I therefore strongly agree that it is necessary to focus even more on this AMA gas seal, which already has 1 300 plants in Austria. It's undisputed that there's clear air up there. We should do everything we can to make greater use of this. A much stronger focus is also to be placed on out-of-house consumption. Over two million people eat out of the house every day, and they also want to know where something comes from. “Look where it comes from!” is a remarkable campaign in Austria, and we should support it accordingly. Quality and reliability are the gold currency of today and tomorrow, because if something costs nothing, it is not worth it either. One point, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to end by saying: I read in a remarkable newspaper today: ‘Danone makes organic and swallows soy milk company’. It's an American company. I do not hope that this soy milk product in Austria will then be on the market without labelling, because that would be fatal. We should be careful accordingly. The AMA marking is a very important instrument in the interests of consumers, but also in the interest of farmers in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5350	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5371	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Introduction of a quality partnership for local gastronomy companies: Our domestic quality products are a success factor for our country, for our region and, above all, for our economy – that is beyond question, this should remain the case, and this should be expanded. It is true – Jakob Auerhat mentioned it – that we have a variety of different seal of quality, awards, designations and much more as regards labelling. It would be important that the processor, but also the consumer as a final consumer, can be sure that he gets 100 percent of what is on it. We've been talking about that a lot. Mr Minister, I have once again looked at the government programme, and it says that there should be a clear ‘originating identification of products and raw materials’ – including at EU level – as there should be no deceptions. That's how it's in the government program. If there are no deceptions, it is also important that we all work massively here to protect consumers that the TTIP Free Trade Agreement does not come in this form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5407	The next item is the speech by Mr Preiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5428	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It has already been mentioned today: a truly important day here in plenary, in the Austrian Parliament. This afternoon we have already decided on the Paris climate agreement. On the morning, we adopted Heinz Fischer from his office as President of the Federal Republic of Germany. As a representative of Burgenland, I may also, on behalf of all Burgenländern the former President Dr. Heinz Fischer thanked him and his wife for his 12 years of work and wished him and him every good and good health for the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have been working with colleagues on the last Committee on Agriculture. A motion for a resolution which was then supported by the other groups in the Committee, namely to strengthen agriculture, taking into account initiatives in the food and gas sector. The Minister of Agriculture is hereby invited to continue to set up regional initiatives within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, including in the area of protected designation of origin. This is important in so far as this means that agricultural holdings, gastronomy and tourism in rural regions, including the less-favoured rural regions, will be strengthened in a sustainable manner. We need clear, comprehensible, transparent quality criteria, ladies and gentlemen. 142 quality seals are in circulation in Austria. In my opinion, these are decidedly too many. I believe that it is high time that the AMA directives – the Good Quality Seal Act – were at least evaluated accordingly. Clear designations of origin strengthen the last Finally, rural family farms in rural regions also create value added in rural regions and ensure jobs in rural regions. I repeat this because jobs and value added are essential especially in economically challenging times in less structural regions. However, there are also some best-practice examples in terms of cooperation between agricultural family farms and gastronomy and tourism companies. I just mention two, three examples from Burgenland, for example the Regional Table, which runs very well. There has been a great cooperation between rural family farms and the gastronomy for some time. The second example is the project Network Culinary. The third example: The thermal baths in Burgenland, whether in the south, central or north of Burgenland, have managed to establish great collaborations with rural family farms from the region. This also promotes tourism in these Burgenland regions. Finally, I would like to mention that we have recently developed in Burgenland a master plan for the development of the country across party borders and together with the social partners, within which representatives of agriculture are also sitting at the table. I think that can also be an example for us to draw up a master plan for the rural regions throughout the federal territory. I would like to invite all the political groups on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of supporting and supporting food products produced in establishments with an area of 100 hectares or more than 100 hectares industrially, but of ensuring that family farms active in the field of special cultures are economically protected accordingly. [[Call the SPÖ: Time!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Time!]] I call here only special areas of wine-growing and fruit and vegetable production, so as not to go further in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, the goal is and must be that farmers will also have incomes in 2016, in a year challenging for them, with their incomes and that consumers can also afford the products that will be produced regionally. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5484	The next item is the report by Mr Rauch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5505	Mr President. Federal Minister! We've heard a lot of things already. A crucial point that I already have to bring in here is this wild growth in the labelling of our food. There are numerous labels that are no longer transparent for us citizens in the final effect for consumers. It is high time that we reform these markings accordingly. Mr. Federal Minister, please agree with the management of the AMA that there is safety for the consumer at last, if an AMA seal is on it, if this is to be our Austrian mark, that Austria is accordingly also inside. That is our concern on this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is still crucial in this area of AMA: If an AMA seal is on it on a product, it is not guaranteed that it is a non-genotechnic product. That's not guaranteed. Federal Minister, please take this ball and finally put it on the tapet! . Yes, I understand that you, Mr Schultes, have the problem of the Farmers' Federation, but in the final effect is the point [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schools.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] An AMA seal guarantees no genetic freedom in the food sector. That's crucial. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Another point, of course, is also the topic of TTIP: TTIP will bring us even more danger in this area, even more on issues, so that it becomes more difficult for consumers and citizens. Mr Pirklhuber, you have shown this paper with the advertisement – TTIP will bring us exactly there. Products will be placed on the market, which will be much cheaper, cheaper and also of quality for the consumer... – Yes, that is right, but it seems to be, because otherwise we do not need the free trade agreement in the form as it stands. [[Abg. Jewel beaters: It's not even cheaper anyway!]] So it becomes even more difficult for us consumers to get and buy Austrian, regional products. In this sense, the request is supported by us, Leo Steinbichler! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5564	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Here you go, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5585	Mr President. High house! In the short term, the application concerned, on the report from the Committee on Agriculture on Quality Seals: We have a very well-functioning quality seal, which is the AMA quality seal. This we have repeatedly discussed and expressed, which works excellent in the food trade. In the field of gastronomy, the AMA gas seal is applied in the meantime, it embodies a system of traceability of the raw materials in the gastronomy. Gastronomy companies, which are clearly committed to regionality, to the local origin, are awarded in this respect by the AMA marketing. I have now launched the culinary network, with which a well-founded strategy process for Austrian cuisine has been launched, to which the local gastronomy and hotel industry in particular is invited. Within the framework of this strategy process, common guidelines will be presented in October of this year, in the sense of the joint proposal from the Agriculture Committee. I think that is the good basis for implementing the traceability, the regionality, the origin of domestic products in Austrian gastronomy, in the local top culinary industry. Of course, I'm going to tell you about it all the time. I am also pleased that this proposal is now supported by a broad majority – in fact by all the political groups – in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5621	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5643	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, it has already done a lot of things to Mr Rauch: There is such a variety of notes, impressions, seal of goodness, bio-seals – the consumer no longer knows. You can't expect that even if you know the seals, you can also understand the meaning that is then behind the different awards; then it comes to the fact that they are not comparable with each other, that is to say, very different, sometimes overlapping features. It cannot be expected from the consumer that he will become a quality seal expert. The government programme states in the Health Chapter that “the implementation of a clear designation of origin of products and raw materials at EU level [...] Consumers should provide reliable and secure information as well as protection against deception’. In this respect, however, the government has not yet taken any steps that would have led to progress. At the same time, there are always campaigns of your ministry, Mr. Minister. To this end, the Court of Auditors has written in its report on the publicity of your ministry: “The campaign Enjoying Region Austria had a considerable amount of funding without setting specific targets for action.” The Court of Auditors has also noted that there are several campaigns with ‘Culinary Heritage’, ‘Best Austrian Hospitality’ and ‘Culinary Initiative Austria’, which are not in line with one another, which do not pursue a common objective and which all have no quantifiable objectives. So there's generous spending. There are certainly the right agencies and the right printers. I also know that Mr Schultes is always allergic to the word AMA. This, of course, is also about important funds that have to flow to the right people. You are already the Lord over a very dark agricultural realm in which financial flows flow, which unfortunately, are not transparent. [[Interlocutory calls to the ÖVP and to Mr Walter Rauch and Mr Hagen]] And many farmers like to know much more where their euros flow.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5688	The next speaker was Mr Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5709	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Vorarlberg Agricultural Councillor Erich Blacks don't get tired of stressing over and over again: “Agriculture and tourism are twins of the future.” He is quite right in this analysis, because agriculture needs rural tourism, it needs tourism, it creates jobs in the rural region, and thus also preserves rural areas worth living and loving. At the same time, of course, tourism needs agriculture, which, with its daily hard work, ensures that the guests of the rural area, the tourists who come to us, like to come because they find a country that you like to remember and that you always like to visit. For this reason, but not only for this reason, we are very happy about a partnership with tourism, because tourism is also a buyer of valuable food produced by us farmers. In this regard we already have some good approaches on the table, for example the AMA gas seal on a voluntary basis, which is now used in Vorarlberg by many gastronomers; but, Mr Auer has already said, there is of course still air up. The gastro seal should be much more widespread and we will work on it; 1 300 companies already have this gastro seal. In Vorarlberg, however, we have also launched the initiative “regional and fair”, which should point out how important and good our food is, which is also used in tourism. Many previous speakers have already pointed out that there are various initiatives in the various Länder. The aim of the motion for a resolution, which we are present here, is to improve the coordination of these initiatives and to provide a strategicly coordinated development in this area. I believe that we are going the right way by voluntarily working together and moving forward. As I think a lot has already been said on this subject, I would like to thank all of you for your attention and wish you a good summer.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5750	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5771	Mr President. Minister! Today the government is setting up an initiative to strengthen protected designations of origin. The importance of this issue has already been stressed by the Minister, and I am delighted personally by the fact that all parties support this initiative. Why regional products? – This question is easy to answer: because it brings benefits to consumers, to businesses and especially to the environment. For the Suments offer regional products more transparency – one often knows where the product comes from, and often knows the production process. This is a point that is becoming more and more central after the various food scandals, because regional products create trust. In this way, traditional manufacturing processes and jobs in the regions remain preserved. Agriculture and tourism have an advantage, which otherwise hardly any industry has, that one can generate value added where there is little infrastructure. Equally large are the advantages for businesses: This is the way to produce a product that you know for yourself exactly the same way that you are fully connected to, which also tastes better and protects the environment – for example, by, as we have already heard, the long transport routes are lost. Above all, however, the entrepreneur himself – and I think this is a very important point – can make prices better and also contribute to marketing. It can achieve significantly higher margins. If, for example, we look at the decline in milk prices, it is obvious that a significantly better price can be achieved in organic milk or in hay milk – up to 50 cents per litre – and in traditional milk it is only half, and I find that very unfortunate. In Salzburg we have the situation that many farms have already changed to organic for a long time, and then this does not hit the farms too hard. At home there are great products – many of them are produced on the courts themselves and are also distributed on various weekly markets. I find that very beautiful personally, I am also very proud of it – not only because they simply taste great, but because I can personally strengthen the region with my purchase behaviour. I would just like to name a product, for example the Tennengauer Almkäse, which is produced from hay milk in the region, which is also very good and is gladly bought. Many advantages for tourism are obvious: These traditional products and their production preserve our unique cultural landscape. They shape the appearance of the region. The idyllic landscape with pastures and cows does not come from anywhere, but is the product of hard work of our farmers. Let me conclude by saying: I am particularly pleased that it is a good thing for people and businesses, so as a speaker for small and medium-sized enterprises, I am also pleased to see the adjustment of the registration fee requirement, the revision of the trade regulations. For the farmers, I would like to see the job promoted and not the area, because especially the smaller farms should receive full support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5819	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Schools. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5841	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Food – means of life, three times a day, important for all of us! We eat, we drink with joy. And if you look closely: With the wine we know where he comes from, we know where it comes from, but with what is on the plate, very often we do not know. That's where it would be good to know where it comes from. That's our slogan: “Good to know” – this is the campaign that the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture is driving and is supported by many in the gastronomy, wherever large gastronomy has many people to care for. We were able to introduce the action “Good to know” to the public in the canteen restaurant of the central railway station in Vienna. I am very pleased that Donhauser is already doing this. The action has arrived so well that many others are already doing so, and the head of state of Lower Austria has recently announced that from the summer all the institutions of the country of Lower Austria will tell their guests where meat and eggs come from. “Good to know where it comes from” – thank you for doing it. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] This action is exemplary and now has a legal background because at European level we have a clear sense of understanding and declaration. In the case of meat and eggs, it is understandable and we hope that similar rules will come very soon at European level for milk and milk products so that we can also include them in a programme. The designation of origin is in itself customer-friendly and very successful, and it protects all those who have something to offer and are honest, from those who act as if they had anything to offer. The Swiss, which are particularly exemplary in this regard, have for 20 years had the designation of origin of the food on the menu, or at least on a poster or a screen in the local area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] That's what it says: The beef comes from Switzerland or Austria or Uruguay, at least the customer knows how it is and what it refers to. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Wonderful!]] I would also like to see this everywhere in Austria, and you can be sure it won't take long because the customers want it. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, it is!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... by law!]] I wish you a nice summer and the farmers a good harvest.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5917	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to say that in the final vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, concerning: [[See page 35]] Implementation of the Paris climate agreement quickly, a total of 153, not 152, and 132, not 131, votes in favour. This is taken into account in the Official Protocol. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Katzian: Afflicted, Afflicted!]] [[Further calls to SPÖ and Greens.]] Mr Bacher has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e5982	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Quality, domestic products, rural areas, rural development, support for regional structures – the list is long. What's behind that? Behind that is the high quality of our domestic products. It is therefore important that we keep this awareness of the rural region and rural development in focus and work together here on a framework that is aimed at this. It is about keeping the high quality that we have here in Austria throughout the agricultural production sector, in order to enjoy it in the form of best agricultural products. I represent a region that lives exactly this access, namely an access that estimates what products Austria has to offer. I can't help but also point out that there are people behind every production of agricultural products and behind every functioning gastronomy – people who provide their services. These people must not be forgotten, especially when it comes to workers in tourism. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Many of these workers also come from the agricultural sector. Please note: Even if the product that is sold is still so good and is still so domestic, the person who is supposed to sell the product needs to know what he or she is selling. This presupposes that good training is preceded and that there is also an appropriate appreciation in the sense of good payment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This is a point that is very important to me and which I will always present. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I would be pleased if we here in the House would not discuss so often the reduction of additional labour costs, but how we can support the social partners in their negotiations in order to obtain corresponding wages in the tourism sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6043	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6065	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! To the remarks of my previous speaker: Yes, Mr President, we have done the same in recent years – we have tried to train the people who, for example, are in supermarkets at the cheese counters at the meat counters, so that they can also present Austrian cheese, Austrian meat quality. We do exactly what you said and should do more. This is also the right way, because it does nothing if the farmers produce a high quality and those who sell it know too little about it. We have been forcing this partnership for years, not only with the food trade, but also with the gastronomy, with the restaurants. Some previous speakers have criticized the fact that in Austria there are a variety of seal of quality. That is true, only some draw the wrong conclusion, because they say the consequence of the many seal of goodness is that the AMA seal is reformed. The opposite is the case! We live in a free market where everyone can make a seal of quality, and the variety of seal of quality comes from private initiatives: that a supermarket with an NGO starts an initiative that creates a brand for a rural community that creates an economic community. However, the only state-recognised seal of quality is the AMA seal of quality, and therefore it makes sense to maintain that, because this also provides the consumer with the safety of having really Austrian quality, so Austria is also in it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] We are trying to expand this: not only in raw meat, in raw milk, but also in processing products, for example in the gastronomy or also in the food industry. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, great!]] We agreed years ago – after the horsemeat scandal – in the circle of the agricultural ministers at the European level that it must also be in processed foods where, for example, beef comes from, which has been processed inside. There are clear decisions. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But we did not decide that!]] This has been rejected by the European Commission, which is a pity. We should stick to this issue and then we will be able to give our farmers a chance. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Enjoy!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6143	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Unterrainer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6164	Yes, we have been able to enforce reliefs in recent times for the various events, as well as for the sports canteens, the clubs and the host, and it has also been decided this week in the Council of Ministers that the trade regulations should be cleaned. I am particularly pleased that this government has set up an initiative for quality and cooperation in tourism and agriculture, and that this has found a majority across all party borders. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery and in front of the televisions! It's actually going through this country. Many people are happy about the new momentum in government work. In particular, there are two main components: the New Deal of the Federal Chancellor and the very constructive cooperation between the government parties. If we are talking today about cooperation between tourism and agriculture, I would like to stress the importance of this issue particularly as a tourist speaker. Regionalization in particular brings great benefits to both sectors. For agriculture, specialization makes it possible to facilitate pricing. It is a decisive advantage for tourism, because regionality can also highlight the location and the image in a massive way. The figures clearly confirm that regional food is gaining in importance. In recent years, there has been an enormous increase in the demand for specialties – up to 35 percent per year. There is a wealth of interesting examples of where this works very well, and we have heard a lot about it today, for example, the pleasure regions or, if I think of my home, the Northern Trirole vegetable farmers, who can simply score with their unbeatable freshness. From a tourist point of view, it is relevant that this development takes place not only in Austria, but also in those countries that continue to be large and important countries of origin for us, such as the Netherlands, Italy or Germany. Finally, I would like to say quite clearly: When we talk about regional food, we also need to keep in mind that there must continue to be a European protection of the rules of origin. This must not be undermined by any free trade agreement such as CETA, TiSA or TTIP. This is very important to me, because regional products will have to be fully protected in the future, and I will continue to do so. At the request of Mr Steinbichler only one sentence on the conclusion: I would like entrepreneurs to continue to be free and free to decide, because I think: They now have more than enough conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech before the summer break, for this reason I wish everyone a relaxing summer and that we may see each other in old freshness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6207	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6238	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This topic – domestic food, local agriculture, local gastronomy, local tourism – is in fact linked to an enormous added value. What does that bring us if we take care of it when we buy at home that supplies food to the local gastronomy? – We guarantee the basics of tourism, we secure the foundations for management. This is an enormous added value, which is often forgotten in the discussion. In my opinion, especially agriculture, gastronomy and tourism in Austria are inseparably interconnected when it comes to providing consumers with safety in food, to give them safety where they are produced, who is produced and how they are produced. There are them when they buy at home, the security to also be climate-active – we have discussed the climate today. In fact, we need something like a peace agreement with nature, because we can find – globally, worldwide – that robbery is being built on resources and raw materials. That would be the right answers! There should be signs from the region during this globalised period. We should also recognise here in this Parliament that we already have a seal of quality on and on ourselves, namely the AMA seal. We should make it clear that instead of constantly creating more and more and more labels where people no longer know each other. That's why I'm appealing: Let's make this AMA seal quite clear, let's tell people: If the AMA seal is on it, then 100 percent of Austria is in it!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6276	Next, Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6297	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech also deals with the AMA gas seal. We really live in Austria in a very beautiful country, we have a high standard of living and a high quality of food. I am pleased that our consumers are so powerful, modern and very good on the way to the food industry. They deal intensively with it. You also know, of course, that with the AMA seal and with the AMA gas seal they have a really good quality control that they can rely on. The gastro seal is safe to expand. But one thing you have to pay attention to: You also have to understand the gastronomy! Of course, the gastro-seal or a continuous marking of origin brings a bureaucratic additional burden. Business freedom is also restricted, but from a personal point of view, I would like to see this as a long-term goal, just as it is lived in Switzerland. In this sense: If we hold on to the AMA gas seal and seal of quality, we strengthen them and we do not try to undermine them with other seal of goodness, which is piled up! In this sense, I wish you as the last speaker a nice summer break. We eat and drink a lot of Austrian food and we visit Austrian gastronomy so that we can get back together after the summer break! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6331	As soon as it can be done, Mr Steinbichler, you will speak next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6372	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues, guests on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I can start by thanking myself for the series of words, because, I think, we rarely have such a unanimity in laws that a subject is so clearly recognized. A sincere and warm thank you for that. I would therefore like to take with you this illustration of an advertising brochure of a large gastro chain, so that once again the need for this decision, this law, will be underlined. [[referring to the panel placed on the speaker panel]] If different types of beef from seven countries are offered here, we know what reality looks like. Mr. Minister! Thank you for your support. When we speak of 140 quality seals, when I look at how many actions there are – President Schultes mentioned it – “Look at where it comes from!”, “Taste of home”, “Network of Culinary”, there are the enjoyment regions, the AMA gas seal and, and, then, I have to say: We must be very confused about consumers! This is not at all possible, and I am convinced – and I am still submitting a motion for a resolution – that we really need to continue working here. This is a first valuable step. I support what Mr Pirklhuber said: These actions especially for AMA products, these minus 25, minus 50 percent actions are a humbug! This is exactly the contradiction to quality production. I can mention that good food is not expensive at all. Cheap food is expensive! Cheap food goes at the expense of health. Cheap food goes at the expense of climate, environment and regional jobs. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Thank you. This added value, which was addressed, is a given one, a more comprehensible one and serves all of us. Let us, on this point, be truly unanimous! And I really thank all the political groups for this approval. But there is a need for action. Mr Auer! That must have been easy, dear Jacob, you know. If you criticize Danone, I have to tell you: First of all, open up your own stable! We still have agricultural cooperatives dealing with palm oil! And I don't like that. This is from the Gmundner milk, a product that is sold by the Gmundner milk. [[keep a can of spray cream in height]] And that's what we're gonna do! It won't help! I've had to show that ten years ago. Ten years ago She said: What does he want with the tin dose? That's how it started. In fact, in the course of these research, I have only become aware of the extent to which this food market has already evaded us, how far it has been substituted. That's no shame! One now looks pretty slow, it shows effect, and I thank you for the support. As the holiday period that is to come has been addressed: We look forward to many guests at the Attersee, in all resorts. We know that tourism is an important partner of agriculture. And we ask for understanding, because we are now an obstacle with our harvesters, because we sometimes contribute to traffic problems with the vast, large machines. I would therefore like to thank all the tourists who visit us at this point for the understanding that is being offered to us, but also especially the farmers who have to do their harvest and stable work at these summer temperatures. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is very essential that this has been addressed, and I think that should be the further view, which has shown itself quite clearly in the last three days: If there is no clear position on TTIP and CETA, this regionalisation in food will become even more important in times of increasing globalisation. I'll repeat it the last time: Globalisation serves corporations, regionalization serves people! We must put people at the centre of our policy again. I am convinced of the regional labour market, regional food, regional quality of life. Anyone who also wants to look at the world can, of course, do so. But I think the most important thing is that we keep our own living room, our home in order, that we position ourselves as a model country for the other 178 countries at the environmental summit, as it is today from the...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6445	Excuse me, Mr Steinbichler. If you still want to put in the motion for a resolution, you have to read it now because the speaking time of your group has been exhausted. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6460	Madam President. I'm already done and I just wanted to do it. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] I wish all my colleagues a nice summer and make the following request for the implementation of a quality seal law, which has been postponed since 2009: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for support. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6520	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6599	No one has been reported in the word now. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1227 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1184/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the resolution on strengthening agriculture in connection with the Committee's report 1227, by means of a strategic coordination of initiatives in the food and gas sectors and the achievement of synergies. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 171.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues in the field of genetically modified feed. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Steinbichler, colleagues on the quality seal law. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – That's the minority. Rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6679	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda item 1 so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding part of the Official Protocol. ‘TO point 1: Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1193 and 1193, e.g._Other Organiser Paris Convention (1198 A.D.) There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda item 1 before (Annex I/1). Deputies Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement I/1 EA, which is explained in the key points. According to § 55 para. 3 iVm § 53 para. 4 GOG will have the reproduction and distribution. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/2. Deputies Mag. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement I/2 EA, which is set out in the key points. According to § 55 para. 3 iVm § 53 para. 4 GOG will have the reproduction and distribution. The vote will take place at The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee's request in 1198, of the Supplements within the meaning of the Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG approved by a majority vote. Furthermore, it is decided by a large majority that this State Treaty, within the meaning of Art. Paragraph 50 2 Z 4 B-VG is to be fulfilled by passing laws. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast: 153 Of which yes-voices: 21 No votes: 132 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 14.29 a.m. to 14.32 p.m. The motion for a resolution (Annex 1/2 EA) is rejected (for that reason G, N, T).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00140_d8e6762	I announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed requests 1809/A to 1812/A(E) have been made. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 4.11 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
