ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5242	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a nice morning! I'll open the 123. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 121 and 122. Meeting of 18 March 1990 On 4 April 2016, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate and was not challenged. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Bacher, Mag. Greiner, Kirchgatterer, Christ, Auer, Mag. Schönegger, Hafenecker, MA, Kickl, Mag. Schrangl, Mag. Rossmann, Mag. Honey, Schellhorn and Dr. Hable. [[09:06:20]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5276	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: "Dear Madam President! I am honoured to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 21 December, is not to be found in this House. In accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Minister for the Interior of Power. Johanna Mikl-Leiter of the Amte dethoben. At the same time, on my proposal under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has power. Wolfgang Sobotkazum appointed Federal Minister for the Interior.” I use this opportunity to join the divorced Federal Minister Mag. To thank Mikl-Leiter and wish her all the best for her new task. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] I announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will forward this session live in full length. [[09:07:01]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5324	With this we will now arrive at the current hour on the subject: “Investment in infrastructure ensures growth and employment” I welcome Mr Mag. Gerald Klugund is the first speaker to give Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator the floor. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5354	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Minister, good morning! There's a lot of things going on right now. on internal policy, because on Sunday was the first election to the presidential election. There is a lot of discussion about international issues, the crises, the civil war in Syria, civil wars in other countries, refugees, asylum. All these issues are being debated prominently in domestic policy and in the media. However, we believe, especially as social democrats, that the issues of social cohesion, the issues of economics, growth, jobs are issues that are equally necessary to put them in the focus of political discussion and to make them the subject for various reasons. That is why we have decided today to hold this current hour on this issue, because jobs, economics and economic growth are key points for people's living conditions in our country. Infrastructure, public infrastructure is one of the central location factors in Austria, and we can be happy, proud and happy that we have a well-developed infrastructure in Austria. It also serves as a basis for economic action and for economic success, private companies, small businesses, larger enterprises, sometimes also state-owned or close-to-state enterprises. A factor in this context was taken as an example: With regard to punctuality, the Austrian Federal Railways are among the most punctual railways in Europe, and this is not only nice for passengers, for management, for employees, that is also a crucial point for the economic location, because nowadays it is about punctuality and every minute, and it is good that we have such a good infrastructure. In addition to road, rail and energy networks, broadband infrastructure is, of course, one of the key tasks of the state, and Austria must therefore also accept the question of changes in economic life, changes in the basic structure. This concerns the question of positioning Austria as an innovation country, the question of how we deal with Industry 4.0, i.e. the industrial revolution triggered by digitization, in order to preserve social security, workers' rights in this area and not to lose over Industry 4.0, but at the same time we also need to take advantage of the opportunities created by it so that it is positive for our country. Therefore: If we see all of this and are proud of our infrastructure, we cannot lean back, but we must say that we must further expand it, we must renew it, we must stay on this issue permanently, otherwise we are threatening to fall back. We do not want to lose our advantage, but to expand it. [[We welcome the SPÖ and Mr Sieber and Mr Pfurtscheller.]] Infrastructural investment, if one wants to do so, is also therapy against the world economic crisis, against this economic crisis that we have been fighting for years, and the Ministry of Infrastructure is one of the engines for growth and employment in Austria. I'm just sharing a few numbers with you: Each year, not through the financial framework, €5 billion will be invested in the Austrian infrastructure. These are investment in the future that links people with one another who are optimally combining the economy and the people, the economic location of Austria with the other economic centres around the world. This alone means that 80 000 jobs are secured each year by the growth engine in infrastructure investment. The good thing is that for the current legislative period, the Ministry has also tied up an investment package, which provides sustainable investment, investment in the site As well as taking into account, of course, stable finances and a reasonable use of resources. It is also necessary, I believe, to use investment where they generate and secure and support and promote growth. Targeted investments are the key challenges of the next few years, and there are some centuries of projects that result in the Second Republic's infrastructure and employment offensive: a powerful transport infrastructure – I have already mentioned – effective flood protection, investment in the road water, i.e. in the waterway, our river network, the port network and intermodal nodes, where trucks, ships, road and air traffic are optimally connected – and for some years the broadband infrastructure has been re-established, which plays an increasingly central role. That is why this technology promotion, the strengthening of industrial production and the strengthening of industrial production of the future, namely creative industries, is also an essential point that we are particularly supporting from research funding. I am just saying two things about road and rail, because our transport spokesman, Mr Heinzl, will still address the transport sector in detail. By 2021, €7.3 billion will be invested in the Road Construction Program and €14.6 billion in the Rail Framework Plan, which is over €21, almost €22 billion, which will be used as a total investment over the next six years. There you can already see what economic power, but also job security, is in this area. I have also asked myself about the railway infrastructure, how much more than € 1 billion of investment in rail infrastructure in jobs, and economic research tells us that these are 15 000 jobs. If we put this up with what is being invested, we can already see what is happening in our country in terms of job security. A similar factor exists in the street area: For 1 billion €, about 10,000 jobs are created and driven forward. The road, the rail interests us as a citizen, because each one of us travels once on a vacation, goes out from Vienna once in Austria, many MEPs drive from the federal states to Vienna, especially when the meeting day is – I often ride the subway for it – and we see a significant change compared to the state years ago: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hagen and Mr Lugar]] In the meantime, the rail is competitive, which is competitive in terms of time. When I drive from Innsbruck to Vienna, today the time when the ÖBB can do this is no longer meaningful by car or by other means of transport. That is why it is a very successful and important investment for the environment, for jobs and for people too, and it is a saving of time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same applies of course also to Salzburg-Linz, where travel times have been shortened, and also on the south track is now massively invested and the driving time is also shortened. We also know that in the near future we will be investing again in the relations with the surrounding destinations, city trips to Italy, night trains and all these things. I would like to end by saying two points, first of all, about the Danube Programme: There, too, €12 million will be invested for the upgrading of Austria's waterway number one, but it is also half the billion euros that we invest in flood protection, because climate change has unfortunately become a reality, and It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to invest in flood protection, on the other, of course also in climate protection, and here too, public transport is the best way. Finally, broadband, because this future question is very often forgotten: 28 percent of Austria's economic growth directly related to ICT, i.e. to the information technology sector. Nor should we forget the other critical infrastructure if we discuss these issues, such as our close-to-state companies. I only take out the OMC and the gas pipeline network with 900 kilometres of gas pipelines in Austria, which are central to the security of supply, the safety of the entire energy supply in our country and therefore also require a special focus and special protection, especially in times when, unfortunately, all these things are being questioned by some too easily. We Socialists stand for the protection of infrastructure, we stand for the expansion of infrastructure, we stand for climate protection. Why? – because all of this ultimately helps economic growth and jobs in our country and improves quality of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5467	The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology has Mag. Smartly reported. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5488	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... Maschek!]] When I took over from my predecessor Alois Stöger at the Ministry of Infrastructure about three months ago, Alois Stöger said something about which I still think very often today and especially in these days. He was already a social minister at the time and therefore knew what was happening to him over the next few months and what challenges he faced, in particular with regard to the labour market. He said at the time: I need you in my new function, I rely on you, I also need you as an infrastructure resort! Ladies and gentlemen, this is what my predecessor has expressed, which I would like to insert with a common understanding of the office. In times of a weak economy, in times of rising unemployment and in times when private individuals are willing to end their risk and investment, the public sector has a central task and a central challenge. [[Abg. New builder: The SPÖ to...!]] [[Abg. Moser: To build apartments, to clean apartments!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. New builder.]] It needs to set impulses through intelligent and sustainable investments in the future and thus also has to ensure a corresponding dynamic in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also, if you wish, the self-understanding with which I would like to lead the Ministry of Infrastructure. In the coming years, we will invest €25 billion in strategicly important networks, such as road, rail, broadband development and research and development. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Infrastructure is the largest public investor in this Republic. In all these investments, we always have several objectives in mind at the same time. First: We focus on the quality of life of the Austrian population: a secure and well-developed road network for individual mobility, reliable but also manageable rail connections, with which you can safely and comfortably get to school, but also safely and comfortably, in addition to a fast and powerful broadband internet, both in the city and in the countryside, so that as many as possible can participate in this new technology. Secondly, We also create the right framework conditions for the domestic industry with these investments. Powerful infrastructure, which is planned and coordinated by the public authorities, is the most important location factor for Austria's industrial location. [[Abg. Moser: If it were!]] I would also like to say clearly in this context that this has been confirmed in many of my first talks with well-known industrial representatives in our Republic. The transport of goods on the rails, the road network, but also air and waterways, such as gears, must be coordinated. Only in this form can we get the maximum out. In addition, it is about the new technologies and innovations that we are consciously promoting so that we can keep value creation in our own country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, Of course, our investments in the industrial location, in Austria's economic location, have a direct and indirect employment effect, we create and secure jobs with these investments. Allow me to take an example at this point, namely broadband development. In this context, we have set together the clear goal of providing the entire area, Styria, Vorarlberg, Tirol, all of Austria with a fast and powerful broadband internet, not only in the cities by 2020. On the one hand, private households benefit from this if you want to book the holiday from home or order something. It benefits our children and our youth as they need a fast and powerful internet also in school. In the past, the schoolbook was the most important, but today it is often replaced by Wikipedia and other support on the Internet. It also benefits our industry because the processes in production, if you want to, are connected to each other from SMEs to industry, via the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable Members! With these very targeted investments in infrastructure, in the industrial location, we create and secure 80 000 jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With a further €500 million, we support industrial and applied research and create, secure and support further 15 000 jobs in applied research. Our investments in rail development will create 40 000 jobs in Austria during the construction phase. Our targeted investment in the road will create and secure about 12,000 jobs in this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! The public sector is the most important factor in these areas, especially in difficult times. We take money into our hands and invest €25 billion in a high-performance infrastructure in the coming years, from which the population and the economic and industrial location of Austria benefit equally. With these investments we also create and secure jobs. High House, the public hand needs in this context the necessary financial scope, the necessary financial resources. And it will not surprise you that it is especially important to me against this background and because of these hard facts, if you want to do so, that these strategic networks, such as road and rail, continue to remain in public hands. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5591	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. I would draw your attention to the fact that from now on all speakers have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5612	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years and months, Austria has made a really huge step forward in the field of transport and infrastructure, and in particular in the field of public transport there has been great progress. In 2006, 80 percent of the Austrian rail network was from the period of the monarchy, and this, although we know that a powerful, modern rail is the backbone for a well-functioning infrastructure and secures hundreds of thousands of jobs. So this has been changed, and the further roadmap for the next few years is clear: By 2021 more than €14 billion will be invested in the expansion of the railway. But, ladies and gentlemen, not only is investment in major axes and major projects, such as the extension of the South Railway or the West Railway, but also in a large number of smaller projects has been or will be invested in recent years, they have been started or will soon be started. For example, more than 100 railway stations throughout Austria are renovated, revitalized, accessible to the disabled and, above all, modernized. All these measures ensure, as our Federal Minister Mag. Gerald Klugshon said for growth and employment. According to studies carried out by WIFO and IHS, 30 000 new jobs are created annually, and every euro invested comes back 2,1 times - nationally considered -. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The positive effects of extending the rail to a region can already be seen in the example of my hometown of Sankt Pölten. Thanks to the new Westbahn, the driving time of Sankt Pölten, the capital of Lower Austria, is 23 minutes in the middle of Vienna. [[Abg. Höbart: We know it is the capital of the country!]] So the two cities have grown closer together and benefit from each other. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the environmental aspect also plays a major role. In the previous year alone, the Austrian Federal Railways transported 458 million passengers, rising in trend, saving more than 3 million tonnes of CO2. It's all clear. The great success of the railway is right. Austria is – that's what our clubman Mag. Arbitrators have already been mentioned – in the use of the railway Europe tip. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is also investment in the street. By 2021, the federal government will invest around €7 billion in the high-level road network. Of course, as everywhere in the field of transport policy, safety is a priority here. The ASFINAG invests almost €300 million this year alone in increasing tunnel safety. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Another important step is the modernisation of broadband infrastructure. This is both economic and location political as well as social policy a command of the hour. And already 92,500 people are employed in the ICT sector and generate a total turnover of €24 billion. The WIFO estimates that the planned investment of € 1 billion in broadband development will have an employment effect of another 40 000 full-time jobs. And according to a recent World Bank study, a 10-percent increase in broadband penetration also leads to GDP per capita growth of 1.2 percentage points. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Ministry of Federal Minister Mag. Gerald Klug invests around €5 billion each year in the infrastructure of Austria. With these investments in the future, we connect people with each other, we connect the economy with the people and we connect Austria with the whole world. Ladies and gentlemen! We invest in it, we invest in the future and we do not invest in unemployment, and that is good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5655	Mr Ottenschlager is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5676	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! The title of the current hour is: ‘Investment in infrastructure ensures growth and employment’. I think that everyone in this Chamber will probably be able to sign this sentence, assuming that we will have different approaches to this issue. I have decided not to mention any figures today, since I have assumed that my previous speakers will do so, and that is why I would like to try to highlight these investments and their benefits for our citizens. For one thing has become even more aware of me and many of my colleagues since last Sunday, in addition to many other aspects: that we politicians in general, but especially those who are in government responsibility, our ideas, our goals, our actions need to be even more tailored to the needs of the citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] What do I mean by that? – Each measure, each investment must be in accordance with the principle: What exactly did the citizen do about it?, be reviewed. In order not to be misunderstood: I do not want to become populist here and, so to speak, to say everything yes and Amen, what is on the list of wishes. If something is not financial or economic, then you have to stand by and explain it, because in principle we don't want to spend more than we take. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What future projects are there, for example, in this area? – For example, broadband development, which is certainly crucial for many regions in Austria – my colleague from Tyrol, Elisabeth Pfurtscheller – will address this even more closely – important road projects, such as the construction of the Lobau Tunnel, so that the local population, i.e. thousands of people, will finally be relieved. In addition, this axis of traffic would be important for the entire eastern region and the economic area there. Or: the Linz Westring, also an important project, and many other expansion projects in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] And yes, these construction projects also secure jobs directly when they are implemented. Let's stay by the road! The expansion of the infrastructure for electric mobility is very important for our citizens. We need a tight-massed network of electric filling stations to make it more attractive to use such a vehicle. Mr Federal Minister, we still have a lot to do, a strict planning and implementation is required. In financial terms, we have already created good incentives in this area with the tax reform. An opportunity for Austria is also the development of automated vehicles. To do this, we need test routes – I know, there is already a lot on the way, for example in Styria – and we will soon be creating the legal framework here. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: “Bald”!]] These research projects can secure high-quality jobs and perhaps create new, additional jobs. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: “Can”!]] A request in this context, because it fits: Mr. Federal Minister, you are a minister of industry, so I assume that you also have a lot of understanding of this subject and of the economic location – I am very happy to hear that – what we do not need is new strains on the site. That is why I ask you to make a clear statement. No to express the flattering truck toll! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, we confess to the development or improvement of the railway infrastructure. Austria is a railway country. But we must always say that we are investing very, very much tax money in this area. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But in truck traffic too!]] The question has already been asked: What do the citizens have of it? – Newly renovated railway stations, faster train connections: This means more quality of life for commuters who travel to their workplace every day, because of course everyone appreciates a shorter journey time or an attractive train station. And that's what people really need, but let's also say that this costs a lot of money. We also need to rethink the financing systems in this area over and over again. Summary: Investment in infrastructure is indeed important for the economic location and thus for jobs and thus for the benefit of our citizens. At the same time, however, we must always question whether and how we can afford the individual things. The citizens understand when something is not going on for financial reasons, because they want to make economic decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5763	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5784	Good morning, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we too can join the title of this current hour, but with a small but. And I would like to add to the remarks made by my previous speaker, Mr Ottenschlager: Better is the enemy of good! It is not only about building infrastructure – that was, as has already been said, not necessarily one of the glorious achievements of the current government in the past – but also about building something good, building intelligent and making intelligent use of this infrastructure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's take a look at some of the projects mentioned, for example the Lobau Tunnel or the Westring! One or two years ago, the main square of the Spatensticht was in Linz – you can't even see marks on the road for construction work. It sometimes seems to me as if we were in a prevention and not in a building republic. It takes much longer to put the projects on track and really start dredging than the subsequent construction time. And here we come to the second aspect: Where does the money come from for the infrastructure? - Let's just take the streets! We have heard today, important and also expensive road projects are being carried out in the high-level road network. At the same time, we know from the federal states that they do not have the money to get their road network in the front and back. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have a giant broken mineral oil tax, which we send somewhere in the budget. If we were to make a point, we would have much more money than the federal states would need in order to get the road network really reasonable, and we could even give some of it into the ASFINAG's higher-ranking network. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But that would mean giving the money a mesh. This would be transparent and honest to the citizen. Let us, however, come to some details that have been addressed today! Klubobmann Arbitrators have said the track, the train is faster than you can drive on the road. This is basically true and should apply everywhere, but unfortunately only on some routes of long-distance transport. If you want to go from Graz to Linz, if you want to go from Graz to Salzburg, then you have a problem, then hang the train loosely with a slow car. And it's getting even more dramatic in public transport. This is because, for whatever reason, the large network operator, the ÖBB infrastructure, has been somewhat reluctant to invest in public transport. If you look at several bridges in the Central Upper Austria, for example around Wels: This has been an infrastructure prevention project rather than an expansion project. That's why I'm saying: Yes, build infrastructure, but build intelligent! Or in shipping. – We need to integrate shipping on the Danube into the general traffic plan. We need ports that are really capable of fulfilling this trimodal system. And we need incentives to bring so-called High&Heavy transports to the ship. If that doesn't happen, it's all gray theory. A word about broadband. Yeah, we're behind it! It is important to bring the Internet to broadband quality even in slightly more remote regions of our federal territory. But what we need in addition – and this is a core requirement of our Freeman – is a fair access to this infrastructure for the alternative Telekom providers, otherwise we already create a monopoly for a company that is called Austrian in the final effect, but is in Mexican hands. We don't want that! We want the whole thing to be fairly distributed and Austrians too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In total, a good project report, a good plan, but please make a little more effort in the preparation and details. From this point of view, I would like to first of all to thank the controllers, who are in a position to do so, for they are the taxpayers. Without their gels We can't do all of this without their taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5863	Next item is the report by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5884	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one reads the title of the current hour, namely “Investments in infrastructure secure growth and employment”, one must say that it is directly about the question: Which infrastructure is meant? For us Greens, the most important infrastructure is the educational infrastructure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Good education is the most important thing a state can give to its young people. If you talk about jobs, you have to say: Well-trained people find a job much better and easier! – But my colleague, Harald Walser, will talk about this important subject. I see two ideas of infrastructure here – a little bit sprung up. One is: If we build motorways, fast rail, we build airports, we build large infrastructure! If you build large infrastructure, then mainly machines, but fewer people work. Our green idea is another: We want many small and medium-sized enterprises to be employed and jobs created by investing in the areas of transport, upgrading of the highways, accessibility, road reconstruction, setting up of meeting zones, by investing in housing through good housing, thermal renovation. All these things create a lot more jobs, and that's what the WIFO has calculated. Only two figures: In motorway construction, there are 10 700 jobs per billion invested. If you invest in the expansion of public transport, the accessibility of rail, you invest in housing, you create two thirds more jobs for the same billion, namely about 18,000. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the difference! You will always see the large building, where the large companies operate with large machines, but the work effects are much higher in the green model. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If Mr Deimek speaks about the fact that there are preventers, I have to resist this: When citizens stand up against large projects, the question is primarily: How is the tax money used by our citizens? In fact, the conflict, which often occurs in the construction of motorways, in the construction of large base tunnels and the like, is behind the people's desire that their tax money be used more meaningfully, that more jobs be created, that projects that serve the quality of life and progress, which must also serve to combat climate change. If we are building infrastructure today, which we no longer need in 30 years, because life has changed, because mobility has become a completely different, then the shed milk and waste money is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now, as a transport speaker, I come to the conclusion: It has already been mentioned by two speakers that there is an infrastructure in Austria, which is pretty much absandel, and these are our municipal and state roads. They are bubbling as the Court of Auditors wrote correctly. Now the countries have developed a very good model in a two-year process to get the money in order to get the municipal and state roads and bring them back to the front: the comprehensive truck toll. And you have no better idea than to boycott the countries on their way to this wide-ranging truck toll to maintain the road infrastructure in rural areas! The Chamber of Commerce is making a huge campaign and torpedes a very sensible proposal, namely to maintain the rural road network via a comprehensive truck toll and to obtain money for the expansion of public transport. I really don't think that's acceptable. I think we should give the countries support here so that the infrastructure can be maintained, because it is as important for rural areas as the rapid development of the Internet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] Mr Ottenschlager, I would ask that you as a Lower Austrian help you to do so. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – He's not a low-Austrian? – Then I try him as Wiener that he helps that happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5974	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e5996	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Infrastructural policy to create employment: I have to confess, it is rare that the Social Democrats do, that my blood pressure is already rising at 9 o'clock in the morning, but today they have actually managed. Klubobmann Schieder, Federal Minister Klug – by the way, welcome, Mr. Federal Minister Klug! – and all colleagues are talking about investing €25 billion in infrastructure over the next five years, in order to obtain employment while investing in the future. If we don't have the money – and we don't have the money, we owe ourselves to finance these measures – then the government is facing the question: I owe myself, what would be the most important investment in the future of this country – is it the motorway, is it the rail, is it the airport, is it the shipping that has also been mentioned? – I think it is important – and I am right for my previous speaker, Mr Willi – and for the only correct answer that we are investing in education, research and science. In the short term, we have the biggest employment effects – and that is what all economic researchers say – if we invest in the infrastructure of transport in a classic way. But with this investment we only invest in the unemployment of tomorrow. What happens if I no longer need these structural measures in the future, if, as Mr Willi said, the infrastructure actually changes if, for example, we no longer need roads to do so? It is important that we invest in education. We hear at every plenary session that money is missing. Minister Heinisch-Hosek has last had to fight with a budget hole of €400 million. Science lacks over €3 billion, which is actually promised, because it is intended to achieve 2% of GDP, but is not achieved. You don't know how to actually move forward. Even Minister Klug has said that he is working in research at €500 million. to secure places or actually to win them again. All these things are talking about the need to move in a completely different direction. Again: You don't have this money. You have to take on debts for it. And that's why the central question is: What is the most important element in securing the future? – These are our children and not the motorways, quite clear. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] If I hear that the Ministry of Infrastructure understands itself as a new Ministry of Economics and Industry, I still have two more points. The first is that you do not fulfill your tasks. I do not mean you personally, Mr Minister, but your predecessors. They have, and this is very important, decided on tunnel construction projects that do not expect nationally. They have at least partially reduced amounts in billions. But you have also taken measures that you could put in place that would lead to more jobs directly and without costing money, simply for ideological reasons not even thought through. I would like to give three examples. The first is – and I have said so often enough in the Committee – that I would have expected a little more support from Mr Ottenschlager – that you will allow more competition on the rails to be made available to public calls for tenders for all companies in Austria so that each railway undertaking can not only set up but also participate in a call for tender. At present, most of the calls for tenders on the routes supported are made via direct contracts. That means, the state says I need A, and say I have a company that I know quite well, I'm satisfied, I'm taking the ÖBB. I do not see who could offer this service even better, cheaper, safer. Bug! make-hint called on false move. Second point: The long-distance buses, which have led to a large number of business start-ups in Germany, are not possible in Austria if the concessions are simply not awarded. Now one can argue whether a bus is actually a useful measure from an environmental point of view compared to the railway. - That's him when he's fully occupied. We know that. If the train is not fully occupied and the bus is already busy, the emission is lower. Third point – quite another area –: Telecommunications. You have – not you, but your department – authorised you to privatize one of the strategic networks you have previously addressed, namely the telecom network. First, privatize the network, which is strategic and which, from our point of view – one of your view probably neoliberal party – is, of course, a strategicly valuable stock of the Republic. And after you privatize it, you invest billions, which you then make available to any company. That goes completely beyond the goal! What you're doing after that is that the political mission to the regulator is to put you at risk from the 64 Telekom companies you have in Austria by new regulatory measures or by abolishing old 63 in their existence. This is not an economic policy, it is not an infrastructure policy and not a future for our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6063	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6086	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Klubobmann. Arbitrators have said something true here, and I am glad that you have taken this into your mouth once and really addressed it from the government's point of view. Economics, jobs and growth, these are very, very important engines that we need in Austria and which, unfortunately, have so far been too little taken into account by the government. Well, I think this attempt is positive. You know Frank Stronach's demands. Frank Stronach has joined the Stronach team to address this growth engine or this stepchild of the government and to pump life into the economy or in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We celebrate the 1st in a few days. May, the day of work. I think we should rename it a little bit to the day of entrepreneurs and industry. These are precisely those who create jobs that make our state work. And that's what Frank Stronach used to say: If the economy doesn't work, nothing will work in that state. Then there is no tax revenue, then there are no jobs, then there is no infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is positive that you have now been recognized by the government. I should like to draw your attention to the "basic programme" of the Stronach team. You can download this on the Internet. [[briefly keeping a brochure in height]] There are very important indications and support in this area for entrepreneurs. There are fair taxes and clear rules. There is a tax incentive for employees to participate. Ladies and gentlemen! So you have to do the right thing, so that we have jobs here, that the infrastructure works, yes, everything works. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like you, Minister of State, Mr Klug – Mr Minister, to listen closely to me now! -, give me something. I listened to you at your speech. I heard something that didn't please me very much. Minister! They have spoken positively about broadband development. But the one sentence then shook me a little more than you said, then people can book the holiday over the Internet and order something. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary for us to create jobs here in the country, not Amazon, and I know what we all support. Mr. Minister, that was a little inaccurate. I would ask you perhaps to correct this and say that your intention is to create jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But let's take a look at the infrastructure issues! You have said – and this has already been mentioned here – in the Transport Committee that you are also Minister for Industry. That was a big project, and I think it is positive that you are thinking of industry, of the people who create jobs. The industry, of course, also has a working transport route. But in Austria, it's always there. In Eastern Austria, there is now a lot to be done in this area that the transport routes across the railways, across the road, work accordingly. But there is the stepchild West Austria. Now we know that the Arlberg line is a big problem. However, I have already told you in the committee that we are facing the problem of the fact that in Western Austria, especially in the westernmost federal state of Vorarlberg, it is quite obvious. And this is not an invention from me, but it is written by the “St. Galler News", for the Neat Connections, so it is. We know, for example, that the Germans across Lake Constance now electrify the Munich-Lindau railway line, that they see that there is more capacity on the rail that you can drive faster, transport faster. But there's this big coniferous tube, that's at Lake Constance, that's single-track. From 23 a.m., if I have it right in my head, no train will be allowed to drive. Goods transport is therefore completely stopped over the night. There's a lot to do. I have read in this Swiss article that Switzerland and Germany partially co-finance train trains if they are of benefit to them. It is also about improving the network between Munich and Zurich, which goes further down via Gotthard to Milan. There you need to talk to the Swiss neighbours about financing to possibly create a railway tunnel in Vorarlberg between Lindau and Bregenz. I think that would be a reasonable thing, a good investment to strengthen the economy and bring the goods out of Vorarlberg. We are a good deposit despite a good freight station, but the transport is a problem. That's where we should access. Mr. Minister, I invite you, I'd like to advise you. All you have to do is come to me. I'd like to help you get on with it. That would be the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6160	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6181	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that's self-evident, anyway, when someone makes himself and says we should be the 1st. In May, it was renamed the Entrepreneur's Day. You can make every day the business day. But if you do that on the 1st. May say, without referring to the special benefits of Austrian workers, if you simply go there, then that is self-evident. The workers have not deserved this! ==References== May will stay the day of work – whether or not You don't or you don't! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Infrastructure has also presented a number of investment programmes today. I believe and am convinced that this will provide important impetus for key sectors of the economy and social infrastructure, both in the transport and telecommunications and communication sectors as a whole. With some previous speakers, I had a little the impression that it was either a decoy or if you say: Well, actually, other areas would be more important to invest in than the infrastructure measures presented here. I don't think it's a question of whether it's an issue or not, it's got to be both. It is therefore all these activities that have been addressed here. I think that investment in infrastructure will achieve or advance two objectives: One is when the measures are implemented, employment is generated – employment that we urgently need and which comes about through these investments. Secondly, with the expansion of the infrastructure, these foundations for the economic location and, as the Minister said, for the industrial location Austria, which guarantee that companies will continue to settle in Austria in the future and will employ people there. This is the first time that we have been Both objectives are, I believe, to be seen when discussing these investment programmes. I think it is very, very important and absolutely necessary. Another area within the framework of the infrastructure is the energy infrastructure. We will invest €5.6 billion in the electricity grid by 2020 – not because it is funny and because you have to invest somewhere, but because we also urgently need this in view of the further expansion of renewable energy. This is a concrete benefit for all, that is domestic value creation that is generated here. There are a large number of Austrian companies that invest in this network expansion, which can become active and where jobs are generated again. We also achieve important gaps in the network. If we are really concerned about security of supply – security of supply and infrastructure are closely related – then we must make these gaps too. We have decided on the Energy Infrastructure Act that we have set minimum standards for fast procedures to accelerate without limiting the potential for participation and participation of the population. I have already pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, the massive increase in renewable energy is the main driver for the network development. Both the expansion of the networks and the expansion of renewable energy are mainly paid by the electricity customers. That's okay, too. The difference is that the networks can be used for decades, while the promotions for eco-electric power plants run out. I believe that we will still have a corresponding need for discussion with those who believe that this must go into a permanent subsidy. I still have two comments to make. First of all: I think infrastructure is the life nerve of a society and an economy. It is therefore perfectly clear that infrastructure should remain in public hands and be dominated by public authorities. That is the case today, and that should be the case in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And second: When it comes to generating more money in order to invest in further and wider measures in the field of education and research, I think it also needs those exceptions from the fiscal rules which have been discussed more often. This means that investments in the future – and this includes investments in infrastructure, education and social structures – can be excluded and the state can also act accordingly. This is, in my view, an essential measure to be taken and implemented now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6251	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6276	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the ranks and on the screens! First of all, I would like to focus very briefly on the speeches by Mr Willi and Mr Deimek. They have both called for the comprehensive truck toll and have looked very intensively at the ÖVP side during their demands. However, I would like to add a little bit, gentlemen: You know exactly when the federal government handed over the lower-ranking road network to the countries, it has the financial expenditure to be expected by the countries. have compensated for a bonus or an additional payment in financial compensation. And if the countries now have this money, which they have promised at the time and have been transferred each year, do not use it for the low-ranking road network, but do something else and complain now, then it is their problem and not the problem of the federal government. Secondly, we are harming the rural area if the wide-ranging truck toll is used. I'm convinced of that. Every grocery store 50 kilometres from the motorway will feel it when the truck comes to them and they have to pay toll. If they buy only for 500 € or 700 € or 800 € food, then they have to put that on the price. This will then end up with the consumer and damage the rural environment – apart from the businesses that have still settled and maintain themselves in rural areas, which of course will also feel this. I would like to say to Mr Willi: Perhaps you should discuss this with my colleague, Felipe, because, as you know, she is not the very big follower of the comprehensive truck toll, although she is the competent councillor in Tyrol. Now to my actual contribution I wanted to bring: Infrastructure is of course totally important for us. We all know that. As Austrians, we are quite well on this issue in European comparison. Anyone who travels professionally or on vacation can find that our infrastructure network is very well developed. I am convinced that it is very important to have a good transport system to guarantee innovative, dynamic, sustainable and functioning economic and tourism locations in Austria. As an example, I now want to take my region from which I come, the district of Reutte. There's the B179, the Fernpassstraße. They all know them from the radio, because the traffic reports concerning the B179 are almost daily to be heard; in the Austrian ranking it is still in front of the southeast tangent. That is, our small district suffocates partly in the car traffic, because we only have a single road link to the Inntal, although we know that this road link is incredibly important for the Inntal and especially for the Tyrolean Oberland. In the Tyrolean Oberland there are 130 000 guest beds, which are filled on this road every weekend, so to speak, and on this road the departure takes place again. That is, we are aware that if we do not have a traffic jam on our road on Saturday, then tourism in the Upper Country has problems. It is therefore very important to us, of course, that the road is open, that the road can be well driven, but nevertheless we locals should also have the opportunity to move on this road on the weekend. Another aspect is that it is incredibly important for our district to have a quick connection to the Tyrolean Central Area. Especially for young people commuting to university or school, for commuters, workers, it is absolutely important that they come back and forth quickly. For us, it is simply vital that we continue to be able to exist in our district, that young people do not leave and do not come back and that we are almost experiencing a depopulation, apart from the shortage of skilled workers we also have. So we have to see that people can come to work, because there are some large businesses in our company. This means, in conclusion, that: Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you here officially, on behalf of the people of the Tyrolean Upper Country and in my personal name, very warmly, that you build the Tshrgant. Put tunnels in your focus. I know it's not that easy, the funds are not infinite, but it would be very important for us. And if I'm already asking: The two-track extension of the Oberland railway would also be great for us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6336	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6357	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Oh, my God! Yes, the title of this current hour – that has already been said by Mr Ottenschlager – can be signed by everyone, that is right. Infrastructure is important, but we must not be fooled by one thing: Infrastructure projects have very long lead times and probably do not benefit much in the current situation in which Austria's economy is located. All infrastructure projects that you address will only be crowned of success if you finally change the conditions for the Austrian economy, and there you have been sumptuous for years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A little more history lesson for Mr. Klubobmann Schieder: If he now calls the extension of the South Railway line a success of the government, I do not know where he was in the years 2000 to 2006, because the extension of the South Railway with the Koralm Tunnel et cetera was anything but a desired project of the Social Democrats. On the contrary: Gusenbauer and Pröll von der ÖVP, for example, have the Semmering Tunnel for years, if not for decades. So much about the preliminary periods of infrastructure projects, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. So a little history lesson wouldn't harm you either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't know what you want on this issue today. Perhaps after the earthquake from Sunday this is the famous new beginning that you have proclaimed on Monday. Now that infrastructure projects are being put in place as an all-embracing tool for the economy and for job security, this is a little far-reaching. I don't think you know the current situation. In the preparation of the 2016 budget, we assumed an economic growth of 1.6 percent. In the meantime it has already been corrected for the second time, and the current level is 1.2 percent. What conditions the economy finds, you will hear every day in every business you visit, in the meantime also in written form from the Chamber of Commerce to the Federal Government. We have huge problems! We have a relapse in all rankings for years. We have a willingness to invest, which is falling dramatically. The Chamber of Commerce writes in its letter to the Federal Government, which by the way the social democratic economist Dr. Matznetter also signed: Within the last six years, the net investment rate has fallen from 10 percent to 5 percent in percent of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, if this is not an alarm signal, I don't know where you live and how you see economy. You take note of the fact that we are far, far behind in European comparison, and you are doing absolutely nothing to change the framework conditions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We still have the problem of the credit terminal. It is simply absurd if the European Central Bank reduces the interest rate to zero a month and a half ago, on the grounds that the willingness to invest in small and medium-sized enterprises and also in the private sector to increase economic performance in Europe is to be I would like – and 14 days later, a directive comes from the EU Parliament to tighten up the credit procurement directives. That is no more reluctance to go! And our federal government is not yelling at this! No one understands that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have a bureaucrat who can no longer be surpassed in the meantime. The latest example is the registration obligation. There is a law with 11 pages in the Bundesgesetzblatt, and then there is a decree with 67 pages to determine how to implement it. Yes, do you really believe that a small or medium-sized entrepreneur is still looking through here? You hardly find a tax advisor in Austria who can tell you exactly what to do. This is the bureaucrat who rules in this country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we come to the famous Russian sanctions: We have called on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to stop extending the Russian sanctions on the part of Austria. We have had commitments from Dr. Matznetter, we have long been committed by Mr Mitterlehner's Minister of Economic Affairs to work for this purpose. In the meantime, even Mayor Häupl – yesterday in “Vienna today” – says that the abolition of the Russian sanctions is a requirement of the FPÖ, which one should actually contribute to. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We hurt our economy ourselves, just to make the Americans a pleasure. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, how long you'll be danced by the Americans on your nose. If it is a fact that in the last two years the US exports to Russia have increased, while the Europeans have broken in, then I really congratulate you on your far-sighted view and on your assets to attack economic policy issues. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing good except you do it! Finally, put your new start announced yesterday into action, give yourself a back and finally change the framework conditions for the economy in Austria, and she will thank you with jobs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6458	The next item is the report by Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6479	Madam President. Mr. Minister on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, I congratulate the SPÖ; I think the choice of today's theme was very good. The issue is important, in which we agree. We are less convinced, however, of the measures you are presenting us with. I find it typical today: The word 'education' has so far been taken into the mouth only by the Greens and the NEOS, although we all point out again and again in Sunday's speeches how important this is. I have chosen a quote from a founding father of the United States of America, namely Benjamin Franklin: ‘Investment in knowledge still brings the best interest rates.’ This, ladies and gentlemen, should be taken to heart, and we would have a whole series of proposals. And because I know that green proposals are not good at the government parties and are always accepted only when after years it turns out that they are correct, here I put the short version to you. a number of studies describing what will bring investment into education. [[The speaker keeps a convoy of documents up to date.]] I would very much like to quote and very consciously first of all the Chamber of Labour, which has presented an investment programme covering about 100 million euros. This is a crack compared to what you present to us here and what the funding is not guaranteed to date – a crack! Condition: Countries must co-finance each. I'm not saying you haven't done anything in the last few years; You've done something, it's too little. The Chamber of Workers expects you to: With €100 million – 100 million – this is only co-financed by the countries – create over a period of four years – and now please hold fast; this is a study by experts! – 35 000 new kindergartens, which in particular need our single parents, who urgently need our families, need couples, where both have to go to work and the children should be cared for. From a pedagogical point of view, we know how positive this is. Even with the 15-year-olds, a longer kindergarten visit is positively detectable. What else do you do with it? – Better opening hours for 70,000 children's gardens. This is also what the mothers concerned need, the fathers concerned. Furthermore, at least half a pedagogical specialist per kindergarten group. 14 000 new jobs, 14 000 people getting a job, plus 2 300 in other sectors. For at least 14 000 parents, additional work would be possible, at least 30 000 people in total would be added to wages and bread. That's what the Chamber of Labour says, ladies and gentlemen, and please take this seriously. If the Members of the People's Party now say that the Chamber of Labour is rather red-burned – no problem, you can also get a paper from the Industrial Union, which is exactly the same result. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Every euro we invest in kindergarten education – that is what the Industrial Union expects you to do, ladies and gentlemen – has an eight-fold return. So we don't have to discuss this from the pedagogical point of view, we don't have to point out that this is important to women's politics, we don't have to point out that family politics is absolutely necessary – no, it's economically calculated! The Chamber of Labour and the Industrial Association assumes that this investment is already in return within a few years. So if we are talking about infrastructure, please in that area where we need it most: with the children in preschool care and then, of course, with the children in school care. I would just like to say the following very briefly: There's something you've done, too. The school development plan was a real idea, only: He's out. And the second problem: He only applies to federal schools. We also need a corresponding initiative in the field of compulsory schools! Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude: Instead of putting money into pointless tunnels, instead of cutting out the money, investing in concrete, investing in machines digging the tunnels, it is important to take account of the fact: Jobs secure small business! That's where we have to put the lever. This creates jobs, and these are sustainable jobs!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6569	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6591	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Since 2007, the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology has been in the hands of social democrats. [[Federal Minister Klug: Thank God!]] Thank you, you can say yes. This is an interesting Launchpad, which was, as it were, the first job in the Federal Government for Mr. Faymann, and also Mrs. Bures had previously worked in this department. And our Minister of Space may also see it as an interesting career option to continue there. But it is not about the SPÖ's personal location policy, nor is it about the special tunnel view of some ÖVP national leaders. We have already heard the pleasurable request for a tunnel. Of course, we could also talk about the many scandals of large-scale infrastructure projects in the field of infrastructure – as Skylink thinks of me, since I am in the North Hospital or the Vienna Central Railway Station – or about the perhaps quite questionable allocation of broadband promotions that go to a large part of just one provider. [[Abg. Heinzl: At the main station, where is there a scandal?]] They want to talk about location policy and employment, and you only think about investments in construction activity, construction activity in the narrower sense. [[Abg. Heinzl: Where is there a scandal at the main station? Say it! Not under the protection of immunity here...!]] But this is at best the basis for positioning Austria as an economic location. If you come with the goal of growth and employment, then a major success factor is missing, and that is, of course, the people: people and their entrepreneurial thinking. These are those who are also willing to risk something: the entrepreneurs! And there is the great difference between us, the NEOS, and the government parties – in that case less of the difference to the ÖVP than that to the SPÖ. It is not the policy that creates jobs and sustainable growth with port network, rail, road and broadband, but it is entrepreneurs who create these jobs. So if you want to do location policy, then change Austria and make it an entrepreneurial and business-friendly location! Reduce the bureaucracy! Reduce the costs so that more air remains for employment and actual investment from the entrepreneurial side! Create opportunities for financing by private risk capital in early stages, but also in connection financing! Quite specifically on the subject of bureaucracy: Reduce bureaucratic obstacles! – These are all measures that cost nothing. – At last, modernize the trade order! Let us talk about working time flexibility within the limits of a maximum working week! Let’s talk about the introduction of a “one in, one out” rule, as is the case in the UK, for example; they have even extended it to a “one in, two out” rule, with Sunset Clause, so that there are actually fewer regulations! Let's talk about the costs: Lower You're finally paying extra costs, really! Delete, reduce, paint on! Then we have a potential of at least €3 billion for ordinary pay-side reductions. These are a large number of percentage points that companies really bring. Work in particular is burdened with much too high taxes. There are contributions to the building of housing inside, to the municipal tax. The mandatory memberships in the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Labour also contribute to the cost of work. And third and most important point: Financing. Mr Minister, you meant that private investment would end. – It’s not going to end, but it’s simple and just not attractive enough. You need to attract private venture capital to companies. Measures such as the “MiFiG new” will not help. Please take our request last year concerning a real-economy investment exemption which has not yet been dealt with in the Committee! Technically, it would be very easy to make a special deduction for investments in young companies in start-ups even for private. Such a real economic investment exemption amounting to – as proposed by us – for example, € 100 000 would really be a milestone for the economy. It's not about either, or it's about both. You have addressed the field of education – I think it was Mr Katzian – but nothing happens there either. So both that and that doesn't work, and the Either or there isn't in this sense either. We are therefore not concerned with State investment – for which money is missing anyway – but with the fact that entrepreneurs can invest. And of course this one billion, which is supposed to create 15 000 jobs in road construction, is not sustainable. Sustainable measures that really create jobs that generate growth are those that promote innovation, such as those for an entrepreneurial, business-friendly Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6670	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6691	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Mr Minister, perhaps I should like to make a brief comment, referring to the recent past: When you were active as a defense minister, you didn't keep so much on infrastructure. I can remind you of the barracks closures or the cuts in military music, where the most important infrastructure has been questioned. But perhaps the ministerial change or the latest election results have accelerated this positive change, and we are excited about it. However, a lot has been too much for me on track and road and, as my previous speaker has just mentioned, too little for people. I would like to give you an up-to-date example. Mr Ottenschlager referred to electromobility, and Mr Katzian mentioned the expansion of electricity networks. I would like to bring in a little bit of reality here and show how it really looks. We are just remembering the tragic events in Chernobyl, forgetting that 435 nuclear power plants are on the grid. We forget that China is currently building 20 new nuclear power plants. And reality also looks like in Upper Austria, Energie AG, the biomass heating plant in Timelkam, which was opened in 2005 and which supplied 20 000 households with bioelectric power, has supplied 6,000 households with bioheating, has been shut down for months. These are the facts, and we need to talk about them here in this House when we say we address the fears and concerns of the citizens. As regional businesses are closed, regional jobs are destroyed, and international speculators are being opened. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The same development, ladies and gentlemen, is taking place in rural areas. We are always talking about urban space, but we are not talking about small rural communities where post offices are closed. In the municipality of Regau – 6 000 inhabitants, 70 businesses – the Post Office is closed. This is the infrastructure you take outside the citizens! And I think a very wise statement has been made in recent days by the spokesperson of the industry in Upper Austria, Peter Mitterbauer. In connection with the bureaucracy, with the obstacles that entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises have to face, he said with this over-bureaucratisation, while it was said earlier, Austria is an industrial location, it will, according to Peter Mitterbauer, be called in the future, the “Industrie stood there”. We need to offer our companies truly suitable solutions. The Authority has to support and not prevent! This is the main problem we have today, as you can see when you talk to entrepreneurs on the ground. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The approval of projects, of necessary measures, is largely decided at the bureaucratic table, in a way that hinders the real economy. And this is also a question of the structure: The agricultural diesel, which was taken in Austria by farmers in the rural area – €56 billion! – which European competitors, on the other hand, receive, lack rural areas. [[Abg. Hoefinger: 56 billion?- Oh, my God!]] We're bleeding out of the countryside! We will discuss this again in a few months' financial compensation. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call the SPÖ... 56 billion?- Oh, my God!]] – €56 million, colleague. And because you're asking in between, colleague, I can remind you of the difference in location between Austria and Germany – that's very important. Chancellor Schröder was chosen to introduce the "Agenda 2010" at the time – the necessary measures that our Federal Government has been putting on the long bank for years! Only before elections will talk about it again and be announced: Now the red tape is coming down, now structural changes are coming, now health insurance is being combined! – Hardly are the elections over, as now – the dangerous days start again, three days have passed since the elections – one forgets what one has spoken about. I think that these are the main problems, which are now also annoyed by the citizens and which are expressing their mood accordingly. In conclusion, I should like to say: We are talking here, Minister, about the most valuable tax money. The €25 billion mentioned to be invested in the coming years is the most valuable tax money that needs to be handled carefully. This money must be invested specifically in the active economy, in SMEs, in industry, in education, as mentioned, so that it actually becomes effective for the population. I believe that the very decisive thing is that we are examining all these decisions on their impact on the future, on our children and our anchors, so that there are positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6759	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6783	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today’s current hour is dedicated to the topic of “Investment in Infrastructure Safe Growth and Employment”. We have heard from Mr Minister that €5 billion a year is to be invested in the infrastructure. Minister, that is correct and necessary. It is also right to invest in the expansion or modernisation of the rail when €3 billion are invested annually by 2021. And with that, you said, 30,000 jobs will be secured. But, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need in Austria is new jobs. We all know what the unemployment rate in Austria looks like. And what it means to a human being if he has no work can only understand someone who is concerned with him himself, no one else. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore important to create new jobs, which we have already heard today, in terms of industry, renewable energy, research and so on. And quite, it is very important that sanctions against Russia are finally removed! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] I believe that this is important for us because these sanctions prevent our jobs from being further expanded. As Mr Themessl has already mentioned, what we urgently need is support for our small and medium-sized enterprises, because these businesses are the backbone of the domestic economy, and they are at last relieved and not constantly burdened! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6826	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:34:16]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e6847	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7050	The debate on points 2 and 3, 4 to 12, 15 and 16, 17 and 18 and 19 and 20 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7071	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, the Federal Act establishing the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020, as well as the Federal Budget Act, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019, and the Federal Financial Act 2016, 1096 of the Supplements, to be adopted at first reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7103	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 128, FPÖ 119, Green 100 and NEOS and STRONACH per 52 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club within the framework of this Decision per 26 minutes. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club will be limited to 5 minutes per debate. Between the political groups it was agreed to hold two rounds of speakers by group size at the first reading of the German Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020, as well as the Federal Budget Act, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and the Federal Finance Act 2016. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented, and I would like to ask all those Members who give their consent to it for a corresponding sign. – This too is unanimously accepted. [[10:37:15]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the appointment of a new member of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7155	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will also be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of a sufficiently supported request. I welcome the members of the Federal Government and first give the floor to the Federal Chancellor. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7185	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the amendment to be presented here in Parliament in the Federal Government is concerned, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister, who has done an important job for Austria in a truly difficult time and under major challenges concerning asylum and the security of our country. Thank you very much to Johanna Mikl- Leitner! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, this thanks are linked to the best wishes for the new Minister of the Interior, Wolfgang Sobotka. Time has not become easier – only through a ministerial change. The challenges are great, the tasks are considerable. So all that is thought to be good and good cooperation! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Hagen.]] They have an important discussion here in Parliament today – we had it in the government and in the run-up to it – about the federal financial framework to lead the Federal Finance Framework Act 2017 to 2020. In principle, of course, the issues of security, but also of asylum in Austria, cannot be solved for the whole world. That's what we know: Those who wish to provide services for sustainable solutions, particularly in the field of asylum, in the field of refugees, cannot limit themselves to talking about national and Austrian measures, but must engage in international policy and engage in European policy as an active member. Only those who fight escape are strong enough to achieve lasting solutions. Only those who vote in the fight against crime, for example in the tow, and only right in the fight against terrorism internationally and in Europe within the framework of the European Union, and who participate in this work together, will find the right answers at a time when the people rightly ask the question: What about our security in Austria and security in Europe? This is a task of the Minister of the Interior, which is also a task of the Federal Government, and that is also my job as Federal Chancellor. To find in your own country framework conditions which allow one to be prepared by the personnel and by the organisational equipment to act accordingly in security matters, in agreement with the defence department, also requires a corresponding provision in the Federal Financial Framework Act. The focus has therefore been placed on safety, which is clearly recognizable: There is €1.2 billion more for the German army for the period 2017 to 2020 and € 625 million in addition for the police. At the same time, however, provision has also been made in the field of international aid, the labour market, integration and social security with an increase of €1.3 billion in the financial framework, as only those who become active at all levels can contribute in Europe and in the international field and manage the tasks in their own country sufficiently. The provision of additional staff in all these areas has been made in close consultation with the Secretary of State Sonja Steßl. The amounts required for this purpose in the Federal Financial Framework have been drawn up by the Ministers of Finance in close agreement with the Minister of Finance. That was not an easy task in these difficult times. While in other countries there is something necessary being pushed away with the red pen, in Austria we have managed to reduce both the taxes on workers and the additional resources needed for these important areas and nevertheless to keep the budget stable and achieve the structural zero deficit again. I would therefore like to thank all those who have done the preparatory work for the Federal Financial Framework, I also thank all those who have done the necessary work in the ministries and wish the one I have to introduce today, namely Wolfgang Sobotka, much success for his work.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7251	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner came to speak as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7276	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the government, first and foremost: dear Wolfgang Sobotka! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! External and internal security are among the most important legal goods in a democratic state. They are not only a claim in the Constitution and in the Criminal Code, but also play a very important role in the daily life of each individual citizen. In the last five years, we have seen the Minister of the Interior Hanni Mikl-Leiter as the political leader in the security field. can be followed – faced with major challenges in the area of safety as a whole. I am thinking, for example, of international increasing crime, of property offences, of crimes against body and life, but also of the danger of terrorism as a whole. It is an excellent achievement, from my point of view, that it has succeeded in creating the balance in the field of security, namely peace, order and security, not in the form of a non-restricted surveillance state – we all know the topic of data storage – but rather in directing the security bodies, first of all the police, as a friend and helper in the service of citizens. This is an important balancing act that she succeeded in doing. Even on the refugee issue, which has increased in importance and in drama, the challenge to it has been to include, on the one hand, asylum-seeking and really-needed refugees in Austria and, on the other hand, to reject the danger that this would be uncontrollable and unolidarian in the European context, as we have seen last year. I believe that it is one of the greatest merits of Hanni Mikl-Leiter and the entire Federal Government as regards its line in this regard that we have achieved a rethinking at the pan-European level, in the sense of subsidiarity, if the EU does not take action to ensure the protection of external borders itself, and thus, in particular, supported by the Balkan states, a change in thinking that has led to a turn in the direction of the fact that the swinging is no longer taking place, but that, with our willingness to help, we do not refuse to provide the necessary assistance and that we have come to a solidarity process within the EU. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Hanni Mikl- Leitner – and we all know them and have experienced them inside here – has understood that on the one hand with heart and on the other hand with mind, and for that I can thank her very much on behalf of my group, but also wish her all the good for the new task in Lower Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as by Mr Cap, Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Schieder.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today Wolfgang Sobotka introduces himself as a new Minister of the Interior, and normally ministers or other political leaders are granted a certain term of office. You may have noticed it yesterday in the “time in the picture”, but also in other appearances, the topic is so challenging and without a break as regards the need for implementation, but he is also so prepared from his personality structure that he is actually fully active in the new field from the first second onwards. I think he'll also benefit from being a conductor. The sensitivity of a conductor is necessary for team success. The police are a big team, and this in the sense of an orchestra needs a great sensitivity. Secondly, through his long-standing activity in Lower Austria, he has acquired the quality of management he needs in this role. And thirdly, one thing – and he has had it in dealing with the municipalities and other institutions – is that of contact with the citizen in order to properly assess certain needs, for example in the context of border management. I therefore believe that Wolfgang Sobotka has the best conditions for success in a very difficult field of activity. For this I would like to wish you, Wolfgang, every good and best cooperation on the government team. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that the topic of refugees is of course not satisfactory for all time, but that we now have a maximum of a break as regards the whole subject matter, you will notice when you look towards Turkey. There is a danger that the agreement with Turkey will start to crumble in its implementation there and there. We do not know how overall orientation and political stability will develop there as a whole. On the other hand, new dangers arise as regards the new route, i.e. a new or activated route through Libya and Italy towards the north. That's just two problems I'm talking about here. Another is the tow activity which has now increased again. We are also adopting amendments to the Asylum Act today. When I went to Parliament today, I heard on the radio a Member who said she had serious problems with this law. I understand that everyone needs to think very well, because because the problem will become really relevant, then difficulties in implementation will arise. I tell you, this Member is right. You are right, it will be difficult if we have to establish the ceiling accordingly, but I tell you, if we do not have this law, then the whole thing will be completely different, because it will be invincible. Therefore, in the consideration between difficult, difficult implementation and the fact that we do not have an instrument in hand, it is quite clear to decide: We need this new instrument to ward off dangers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do I mean by this danger or danger, ladies and gentlemen? – Of course, it’s about internal security. Of course, it is a question of not being able to cope with 90 000 or 100 000 refugees each year in a number and possibly even with increasing numbers. This overshadows our social benefits, which, in particular, also overshadows integration capacity. In this context, however, there is also a third point, namely that we also build expectations that we cannot meet. Therefore, it is also necessary to break expectations with this new regulation. For example, we want to withdraw the backbone from the tractors, but we also want to send Italy a signal – and this is a sensitive topic – as far as the burner is concerned. Do not believe that we do not know how meaningful the discussion has been in recent years and decades as regards this historic border between Austria and Italy and the whole of South Tyrol problem. We know that and we know this problem: That's a sensitive matter! We also know, however, that the Brenner is a genuinely neural point, including as regards the EU's freedoms in the transport of goods and passenger transport. But I also tell you the following, and this is exactly the same succus that we now have in the law: If we do not break expectations by signaling to the tractors and all the other parties involved that we do not look forward to doing so, then nothing will happen in Italy and at the external borders. So in other words, it means: If we don't do anything, everyone else will fail. Therefore, the need to make preparatory work here is an urgent need to get the others to do something accordingly, and to finally ensure that the measures really take place. This is a difficult undertaking, but a real one! Now you just need to see the continuation of reality: Italy has already begun to take appropriate measures with Libya, the countries of origin and also with the transit countries. You've got to sit there! But if we were to do so, The problem would be there if the Minister of the Interior or other persons responsible did not do anything. The same applies to the Burgenland. I know that border controls and border management are unpleasant, but I cannot demand controls if I do not have the necessary technical and human requirements for them. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, actually describes the field of work. I do not even want to talk about the other issues in the field of internal security, you will address them all today anyway. But I think it's important to note one thing: A policy of solidarity is not simply based on the fact that we in Europe have taken the turn in the discussion and partly also in the measures, all of this is not self-evident, especially not self-regulatory. If we really want a European solidarity policy, then we must work it together monthly, weekly, de facto daily. On this path, I would ask that the new Minister of the Interior be strongly supported.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7414	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. We are going into the debate on the statements. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7441	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, in the High House and in front of the televisions! Once again it was significant that in the midst of the federal presidential election campaign, a government reform was carried out by the government, in which the head of the party of the ÖVP, Mr. Vice-chanzant Mitterlehner, had, of course, once again duped the head of the party of the ÖVP, in this case – otherwise it could not be described; at least it has been perceived in the public at least – and in which, obviously, also due to surveys of opinion which he knew, he withdrew Mrs Mikl- Leitner to Lower Austria in time, so that she would not be damaged as his possible successor. You can't understand otherwise, and so you've seen it in the public. Of course, I do not want to say that the divorced Minister of the Interior, Mrs Mikl- Leitner, was quite familiar with the matter and really tried not to ask a question. [[Abg. Arbitrators: She is married – the excreted!]] - Divorced from office! With all appreciation: I hope you understand German. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Okay!]] Divorced and retired from office. You will hopefully understand the German language, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes, yes!]] Ms. Mikl-Leiter was trying not to ask a question, has also had experience in her office; but now this office with a new, inexperienced personality – with all appreciation, Mr Sobotka, but you have to work first – is especially in times like this, in this difficult situation not necessarily optimal in view of what we had to experience and suffer last year. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's a grave speech now, right?- Oh, my God!]] - I don't know, probably for the government. The grave speech has already been given on Sunday by Mr Faymann. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I wonder how long the head of the party of the ÖVP, Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner, can it be liked that he is so dooped by a head of state. Probably he's already given up and he's just trying more to figure out the period somehow. I mean, a new face won't solve this crisis. What we finally need is concrete action and action. We have thus reached the subject that has accompanied us since the last summer, which has ultimately put the public order and the security of our country at risk, which has ultimately created an emergency, caused by this government. The fact that one speaks of an emergency today is already remarkable – but this government has caused it. From last summer until February of this year, we have experienced a modern international migration, in which we were not prepared to protect and secure the borders, as the Minister-President Orbán has rightly done in our neighbouring country of Hungary. He has still had to hear reproach from our Federal Chancellor Faymann. One was not willing to secure and control the borders in Austria, one was not willing to comply with laws. People have been illegally allowed to enter Austria in more than a million people, without carrying out passport checks and registrations, and have also been active as a state-owned tow organization, partly by transferring these people towards the German border. This has been irresponsible, and we are glad that Macedonia as a non-EU country has then begun to secure and protect the borders. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This modern flow of international migration was expressly not engulfed by people coming within the meaning of the Geneva Convention, because these people have found themselves mostly in protection, in a safe third country and have already enjoyed the international protection of the UNHCR and have therefore not been persecuted. These people have said from social and economic considerations – which no one can suspect –: I will continue to travel through safe countries until I come to my desired destination, Austria, Germany or Sweden, because there the social benefits and the minimum insurance are just so good for me that I absolutely want to achieve this destination. – But that is not in the sense of the Geneva Convention. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, there are always misinterpretations, spoken of by refugees, although this was not explicitly refugees within the meaning of the Geneva Convention. At present, we know that most of these people do not come from the area of Syria and the war region, but from Pakistan, Afghanistan or North Africa, and that hundreds of thousands are waiting to break up towards Europe for social and economic reasons. Of course, it is also necessary to address the responsibility of those countries which have failed in the past or which may be facing the situation in the near future. That was on the one hand Greece, and on the other hand it can be Italy soon. Of course, the responsibility of Italy or Rome must be mentioned by name. It is not our responsibility if the Italians are unable or not willing to protect their external borders, and then believe – like the Greeks at the end – that they can lead unlawfully to Europe towards Austria. In such an exceptional situation, if Rome and Italy fail and the responsibility does not live, we have, of course, a responsibility to protect our national borders, even though we are not pleased when it comes to the Brenner border. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So it is important, as you have said, Chancellor Faymann, to combat the causes. Yes, we need to fight the causes on the ground, no question. The refugee camps should also have seen to it that they are supplied with medical and also food. This was a manco of the European Union, a dramatic failure in this regard. Of course, in the regions of Africa, one must also invest in projects and not maintain the level of financial transfer, where funds disappear into the procurement of some weapons and tanks, but invest in projects on the ground, so that life for people on the ground will also get a future perspective in these areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we also need to tackle the causes in this area, because, of course, it does not leave us cold if people in this region are bad and they do not have future and labour market prospects, but we also bear responsibility to our own people here in Austria. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] In this regard, we have not only experienced the emergency situation from the last summer to the February of this year, but we have many emergencies: We have a record unemployment in Austria. We have an economic flea in Austria. We have a situation where further record debts are made. All of this is emergency developments in which we are now faced with the development of last year and the failure of this government and the violations of the law with additional billions of costs, but the European Union does not make institutions to repay us the money. And if Mr Faymann believes that he is still in the view and hopes that there will be a solidarity in the European Union which will justly distribute the burden, then I must say that this is naïve and then you suffer from loss of reality, Mr Bundeskanzler, because you cannot force countries of the European Union to take action. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Last year, you supported an irresponsible social-Romantic invitation policy by Mrs Merkel and criticised us and also condoned us accordingly as a hetzer, because we rightly criticized your course of action. Only then, in the end, when the damage was already done, did you try to scratch the curve. One thing I have to say: Ms Mikl- Leitner has also been counter-cared in many areas by the Social Democratic Party, by the coalition partner. I remember when Mrs. Mikl-Leiter said: There are certain borders, there is also a border fence, if necessary, which has been said at once: No, border fence can't be said that must be a door with side parts. We have also experienced a countercaring at the so-called ceilings, which no one needs at all who is reluctant. You only have to comply with the upright laws. There's no need for any upper limits. Can anyone get in legitimately or not? - I don't need any upper limits. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to recall the high-level pseudo-debate debate with 83 requests a day, which were then also counter-cared by the new Minister of Defence, who said: Well, that doesn't apply per day to Austria, but per border crossing, and if you come in to Austria and make the application in the country, then that doesn't count, and the 200, 300 people who are sent back from Germany every day, well, we don't count on that either! – If this continues daily, the “only” 90 000 people will be in 2016. That's just unfair. I say that is exactly what bothers many people because they recognize that this misdevelopment is not credible and serious. These are placebo debates that we must fear that when Italy experiences – and fails – the next wave from North Africa, the necessary and determined preparatory measures have not been put in place at our border. I hope that we will not get into the situation, then experience it in reality. I don't wish for that. I hope that in the next 100 days, you, Minister of the Interior, I say, as a new Minister of the Interior, will do everything you can to ensure that, even in the event of such a situation, you have prepared everything accordingly to protect our home country from negative developments. You deserve that, but in reality there is no time limit for the government. The government has been in office for years and has failed for over a quarter of a year. This has, of course, caused a damage that is present and obvious to this day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course you also need to differentiate: There are protection seekers who, of course, have a right to an examination of their asylum applications and then, of course, have the right to protection on time – that is also in the sense of the Human Rights Convention – but if this is not necessary, then we have to support the fact that these people are going back to their home country in order to secure reconstruction in the country. They are needed there, just as our grandparents did in Austria, who fortunately did not leave the country, but after the war repacked and built the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also necessary to distinguish between those people who want to migrate for economic and social reasons, and this has been the case in most cases last year. So it is necessary to finally deal honestly with it. We need to ensure that this government – hopefully seriously – is finally reversing and rethinking. If the government continues to do so as before, we will be more likely to see a rise in the number of problems, and that is exactly what the population certainly does not want. I would like us to have a government that is finally doing a good job for the country, but I am so far lacking absolutely the faith, and this is unfortunately based on God's experience and not because I am automatically opposed to everything that this government does as an opposition officer. No, because where reasonable things are done, you will also experience our support, but where you act irresponsibly, you will experience our fierce criticism and also counter-defence, and in that case it is. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: And what is reasonable, Mr. Strache, that determines...!]] – Well, that’s what the voters decide! Hopefully you understood the message from Sunday – but I see you did not understand it again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They go back to normality: It's all right! The voters are too stupid, they just didn't understand our good work. – No, Mr Mitterlehner, don’t think the voters are stupid! I think you should rather think self-reflexively about yourself and change something and not always blame the voters that they do not understand your supposedly so good policy. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: I do not have the voters anyway...!]] That's what you're really wrong with. This is exactly what was to be feared and feared, namely, that you are now continuing to join together again and continue to wrangle and the country was then driven further into the graves by the end of 2018. I say: People don't understand, nor do they have any more patience for it, and I can only hope that once you are really self-reflexively willing to acknowledge and modify your own mistakes. Hope dies most recently.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7635	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7656	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Political changes come at different times. Sometimes you can choose more, sometimes less, but it doesn't matter if I want to welcome Wolfgang Sobotka here in federal politics, in the High House and in the Federal Government. I know Wolfgang Sobotka and, if I can say so openly, both sides of Wolfgang Sobotka: both those as the head of state and state council for finance from the time when I myself was the Secretary of State – very wary, very loud, very intense – but I also know the other Wolfgang Sobotka: subtle, not only interested in culture because conductor, musician, thoughtful philosopher-reading gardener, cook. [[Abg. Pillow: Big in...!]] [[Abg. Rädler: (in the direction of the Abg. Pillow) Mr. Pilz!]] And I know from both sides – and this is the decisive thing that is important in politics – that the material argument counts that the contention is at the centre of the political discourse, even if it is conducted hard, and especially that when one has ended the discourse, this handshake quality is also given and one says: What is out of the question is picking and counting. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The issue of security is a broad issue for us. Social security, internal security and external security are very closely related and are dependent on each other in various forms. Especially in times like this, we also see how much all this is related. Without social security in a country, internal security cannot be organized with so many police officers. At the same time, we are clear: Even the highest level of social security will not protect us from crime and such growth. And we also know: No matter how much we carry on in Austria, there is also the international situation, which of course presents us with challenges and which is very closely related to everything. A little later today, when we have the first reading on the federal financial framework, we also plan to increase the number of people for internal security, for police and police. I think that is good, right, important and necessary. In this regard, however, I have a wish, namely that the additional police are not only concentrated on life, cultural life, freedom and all of these things, but also, of course, often include centres of criminal energy or the focus of criminals. I would also like to address the challenge of asylum: Austria has done a lot in this context in history, last year. Austria is still doing a great deal about accommodation, integration, but also the admission of new arrivals, and Austria must and will continue to make its contribution in the future and deliver its performance in this context. In order to ensure all this, several things are necessary. One is that the Ministry of the Interior is particularly required by the staff, where labour stress – and these questions often have to be solved together with the countries – is the financial means for integration, accommodation and all these issues and, of course, also in conjunction with the NGOs, as Austria has shown very often in the past. The other dimension in this context is, of course, the legal framework. The new asylum law, which we are going to discuss even longer today, has already been very strongly and intensively discussed in advance, and I think this is important in a democracy particularly in those matters that are very important, namely the issues of living together, security, human rights and all these issues. It is important that you do not easily simply decide anything, but that you discuss intensively and decide which way you want to go. In this way, we have two strands: a law that takes care of the situations where there are extraordinary burdens on Austria and Austria feel that these burdens can no longer be voted on by themselves, because perhaps – hopefully, but probably not imperatively – the European regulations do not take the form of a fair division in Europe, but Austria is quite alone or alone with some states. [[Abg. Darmann: No one understands that!]] The other is the question of the time when this situation occurs according to the legislation, and for this situation, provision is made that a regulation can be adopted or adopted under certain premises. In particular, the intensive discussion of the last few weeks has resulted in the introduction of two essential amendments or motions for resolutions which bring about further development and improvement of this path, namely that the protection of the child's well-being, as formulated in many opinions, is now also enshrined in the law in such a way that it is taken into account for us children and young people – often alone traveling children and young people – who are particularly weak in this group and we do not want to exclude it. Secondly, a possible regulation is limited in time, it must be justified, and there is also a review which makes it clear that: There is no driving force in this Republic, there is the discourse and the possibility that NGOs, countries, all those concerned who have something to say in this context and who can make a contribution can give it as well. That is good, that is democratic culture, but on the other hand it is also necessary to create this legal possibility here. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also be clear about one thing: What we're talking about here are international conflicts. These are conflicts of not only international format, but those that happen in the world, and for us it is clear that: If you want a real solution, you have to step up or resolve these conflicts locally. Unfortunately, what we are experiencing in Syria – we will be able to discuss this with the UN Secretary-General here tomorrow – is not a compensation or a solution. Here is foreign policy, world policy, it is the United Nations, but it is also required for Austrian foreign policy, and I would like to add a small request here from the speaker: There we can put a tooth on this in foreign policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Minister of the Interior, good for the future tasks!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7741	Now the clubwoman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e7778	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, We've been introduced to a new member of the government today. I have also received information about a historical gap on my part: I now know that Philippi is on the Austrian government bank between Mr Brandstetter and Mr Mahrer. [[Abg. Wheeler: Funny, funny!]] You presented a new member of the government today. However, it is nevertheless worthwhile – especially to colleagues Rädler from Lower Austria – for we have already become accustomed to some things in Austria to talking about the ordering process again, because it is traditionally not a matter of tradition in Austria, which political objectives, which competence, which experience, which political will a minister has, but only party proporz – especially Lower Austrian party proporz – determines who becomes a new Minister of the Interior. That's something we don't want to talk about, you don't have to talk about it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] The Lower Austrian head of state needs a waiting house for his successors, and obviously there is something like an inheritance lease on the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Rädler: fairytale aunt! Good night stories!]] I regret this because in Austria there are a lot of open points. These are very many projects which are still, and above all the reform of education, and we should also act differently in the case of such orders. That doesn't say anything about your quality or non-quality now, but if you have to look at party-proporz and party-calcule exclusively in such orders, the Austrian population is pained and is not adequate in view of the serious problems we face here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rädler:... Vassilakou...!]] I also regret, Mr Rädler – I do not know if you feel that way – that the proportion of women in the Federal Government has fallen further. I believe that it is still necessary to be careful to see here that a large population group can still find a corresponding representation on the government bank of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Then ask Mr. Pilz...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I would have hoped that today there will be a more detailed discussion about the projects, the projects of the Austrian Federal Government for the next few months. It was an incisive Sunday that we experienced. There were some announcements on the part of the Federal Chancellor, about “restart” was the talk. Today, the federal financial framework is also coming into the house, and our findings – or my findings – are already that there is still a standstill in very important questions and many projects are simply not being started. We have now identified a very, very large gap in the new financial framework, namely a structural gap in the education budget of almost half a billion euros, which is not eliminated by this newly presented work, and we have been waiting since 17. November of last year on the educational reform – now longing. Until now, no paper has reached Parliament, after months and years have passed, and children and young people in Austria are still waiting for improvements on the school benches. That is unfortunate, and that is certainly something we should talk about in detail, and not only – as important as that is – about dealing with the refugee question and with the refugee crisis. The other topics must not be constantly pushed into the background and simply logged out. We do not want that, but we want to speed up the reform of education. Please give us the necessary preliminary work, Mr. Bundeskanzler! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Abg. Rädler: But we are talking about the Minister of the Interior and not about the Minister of Education!]] [[Abg. Kogler: You are always talking about restarting!]] Now I would like to respond briefly to this call for call – it also confirms once again the state in which this federal government is located. The call came from Mr Rädler from Lower Austria, who says that the Minister for Education is responsible. She's not here today. I'm just telling you one thing: So if you somehow continue with the proportion in the Federal Government – there is the red half of the empire, there is the black half of the empire – and are unable to take projects together, then it will simply be nothing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is exactly what goes so infinitely on to people in Austria: only against each other, no ability to find common solutions at all, especially on the back of the children and young people in Austria. I'm very sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another area that is very close to our heart: We all celebrated the results of the climate summit in Paris, and we were all infinitely glad that there was something like a global climate agreement. We may also be discussing this with the UN Secretary-General tomorrow, and it was also a huge success for the United Nations. Only: In Austria, since December, since the conclusion of the agreement, no one sign has happened, while other countries have made very serious decisions, for example Norway: There it was decided to remove the entire State Fund from the fossil energies, i.e. structural decisions are taken there. On the other hand, this new financial framework will also be further reduced in this important and relevant future area in the environmental field. I find that not only unfortunate but also unresponsible, because it is about thousands of jobs in Austria. We were all “highly concerned” about the many women who are out of work in this area – under quotation marks. That's what we're talking about. And there may also be people in front of the televisions who do not have a job and who now have to see how further structural jobs are actually destroyed. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go! Please!]] – Yes, this has also been read in your own budget documents: The savings in the field of climate and energy funds have destroyed 7 000 jobs, cumulatively based on the financial framework. These are budget documents, that is not what we put, that is to be read. I would like you to finally take the issue seriously, that this is expressed in some form, also in the financial framework and in the budget. On the return journey, Mr. Bundeskanzler, there has been a great announcement by you, namely that in the field of renewable energies, in the generation of electricity – and who is against nuclear power – must be for eco electricity to 100 percent by 2030; only, there is no single addition to this area to this day. This is also a point of discussion that would be worth mentioning in the context of such a government transformation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can't help you now... [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] - Oh, you're talking in between, okay. The standstill which we unfortunately observe on the government bank is continuing in Parliament too. It is very unfortunate that it is not even possible to establish a roadmap, a procedure for the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors, since you are blocking each other and do not agree on the part-sessions. [[Abg. Kogler: A madness, yes!]] That's really bad! [[Abg. Kogler: This is really a sourry!]] Just leave the house more freedoms, give us more in-depth opportunities to tackle problems! For example, let the educational reform be negotiated here in Parliament! That would be a constructive contribution once. But this mutual hack, this dispute, this proporce, this standstill is continuing in Parliament as well. I mean, the date of appointment of the Court of Auditors has been known for 12 years and has not fallen suddenly from heaven. [[Abg. Lopatka: What does this have to do with government reform?]] – I am talking about the standstill, Mr Lopatka! I'd like you to... [[Abg. Lopatka: What does government reform have to do with the Court of Auditors?]] – You can still talk! It is not possible to make the most important organ... [[Abg. Lopatka: The Court of Auditors is our case, this has nothing to do with government reform!]] – Yes, and the government’s standstill leads to you not even being able to agree now, three weeks before the date for a procedure. That's an achievement! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] The only question is whether the situation is serious or hopeless. I would have liked today to have a debate on which projects are still under way with a lot of energy, first and foremost the reform of education, but unfortunately I have been taught a worse one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e8028	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e8060	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to government reform, some sentences on statements from previous speakers: The clubman of the Freedom Party meant that if good initiatives are presented to the Federal Government, they will be supported. This afternoon you would have this option in the security package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Intensification of family succession, asylum on time: These were always points that you also represented. [[Abg. That's a sincere law!]] – Mr Klubobmann, you are big and strong in speaking, small and weak in implementing! That's what I'm sorry about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Large and strong at the host table or here when talking, but small and weak when implementing – this is the dilemma. [[Abg. Darmann: That from your mouth!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The second thing I would like to say to you about the Greens: It was quite interesting that today we have a government transformation that concerns the interior resort. [[Abg. Kogler: The standstill continues!]] You didn't seem to have noticed that. They spoke about parliamentary functions, such as the election of the President of the Court of Auditors. That has nothing to do with the Federal Government! This is our case, who will become President of the Court of Auditors. This will be decided in secret. [[Calls to the Greens.]] This has nothing to do with today's declaration by the Federal Government. I really wonder what your preparation was here – not at all! But I'm telling you why: When it comes to security and order, the Greens are in principle on the wrong side, namely those who are not interested in it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] If Europe is unable to secure the external borders accordingly, and then we have to do something at our borders then you are on the wrong side! [[Abg. Kogler: You did everything that failed!]] Bengals flew through the air, police were attacked, “three police officers were injured overall and 15 officials were affected by pepper spray”, and in the middle of it: green top politicians – in this case your deputy Felipe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the Greens.]] I could tell you about Idomeni, but Member Alev Korun can do better, she was in the middle of it. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a lie!]] You're basically on the wrong side here, I tell you, that's your problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: This hypocrisy can only allow the Lopatka inside!]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a smooth lie!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is not a “smooth lie”, read in the APA, and also read what the investigator Gerhard Niederwieser said about what happened at the burner! ==References== April was to be read. They were also able to read in the Austrian daily newspapers what happened on the Brenner and in Idomeni. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] We are concerned with doing everything we can to ensure that Austria remains a safe country, and Wolfgang Sobotka will be a guarantee for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] With Wolfgang Sobotka, the Austrian Federal Government is receiving a strong Minister of the Interior – that has already been addressed by colleagues Schieder – who has the force of enforcement he will need, especially at European level, because the good thing is that he brings great political experience and that course, which Hanni Mikl-Leiter has taken, will continue seamlessly. And before he made a first statement in the House, he was already on the go, in Tyrol and in Burgenland. He is one who signals that he can start work immediately, and he has already recorded it, also in the Committee on the Interior. This is important, as far as the internal relationship in Austria is concerned. You have already addressed the federal states. It is an advantage that Wolfgang Sobotka knows all the national leaders well and that the national leaders trust him. [[Abg. Kogler: That's why the Lower Austrian hypo of the Haider-Hypo has shifted 225 million!]] These have already asked him to represent the countries several times; and just as strongly he is now represented by the Federation of the Countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] – It is good to have this axis between the Federal Government and the national leaders when it comes to security issues. This is an advantage and not a disadvantage, colleague Glavischnig! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the Greens.]] We are indeed facing big challenges, very big challenges! On the one hand, there is the Islamic threat that calls for consistent action – we have done so with the State Protection Act – and, on the other hand, there is, of course, the huge challenge regarding refugee flows. Wolfgang Sobotka brings these qualities that a Minister of the Interior needs. You can't always go back here. We were in a situation where we could not act forward because the European solution unfortunately could not be implemented. Wolfgang Sobotka is one who thinks foresight, who brings expertise and very, very, very high commitment. This will be necessary in order to finally come up with solutions at European level – and this is still our goal. I can thank Hanni Mikl-Leiter – and it was interesting that today she has been very much appreciated for her work from a liberal point of view. I listened exactly. Thanks to all of us, Hanni Mikl-Heads deserve this. It has done immense things and has tried to find solutions at European level that would have been the right ones, but which, unfortunately, have not been possible so far. She has always talked about the hotspots in the crisis areas, she has always talked about doing something about periphery, working together with the UNHCR on site and not simply allowing people to enter Europe by chance. [[Abg. Strache: But there she was abandoned by the government partner!]] The European Union is still called upon, even under the leadership of the German Chancellor, to get results here. And it was quite interesting what Germany has been hearing recently about securing the Brenner border or also about securing the EU's external borders. This is where we have quite certainly positioned ourselves as the Austrian Federal Government with the concept that Hanni Mikl-Leiter has stated. And with the decision-making this afternoon, we have also kept the balance of doing security on the one hand with regard to everything and on the other hand complying with the rule of law. The decisive thing about this is a good legal basis, but on the other hand also the financial equipment. The new Minister of the Interior will have a security billion – the federal financial framework is also working on us. By 2020 – it is necessary, and that is why it is right – these additional resources will be available for computer and communications technology, but also for 2,000 new shots from the police. Money is taken into account and legal provisions are tightened accordingly. This is the right way we need to ensure the public order in Austria, the internal security that is so important to people. I am quite sure, and I am convinced that Wolfgang Sobotka will meet these great challenges that already exist today and which will come to us in the coming years. I'm sure of that! The Office of the Minister of the Interior is one of the most difficult, and the Minister of the Interior has a very crucial task within the Government. Wolfgang Sobotka is not unprepared for this task. He brings great political experience and, as has already been said, enforcement to ensure security in Austria in the next few years. Therefore: Wolfgang Sobotka, we look forward to a good cooperation with you. I hope that this cooperation will also be a very broad one.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e8315	Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig, you have previously visibly not agreed to a statement by Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, turning to me indirectly. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Outside of Parliament it is apprehensive!]] For the correction of allegations made by the speaker, there is the instrument of actual correction. That is, if you want to correct something, I would ask you to apply this instrument. For her interlocutory call, Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, the accusation of the "lye" to Mr Lopatka, I give you a call for order, as well as Mr Kogler, for the interlocutory call "Sin sanctity". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: The whole thing shows the absurdity of this order call practice!]] Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e8385	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens, numerous in the gallery, at home in front of the screens! Today we have a new member of the government for fishing, for the first time here in Parliament. I think it is a matter of courtesy to wish you all the best for your work, Mr Sobotka. They are ministers, this is a servant of the people. Even though this understanding of office may not be widely spread in the region that you are from, servantship, but rule, I wish you could well fill this with all your powers available to you. [[Abg. Wheeler: Here you go! We're not at the Hazelsteiner!]] It is a matter of the Minister of the Interior, the question of security is an important one. I brought the European flag with me, Minister, since the former European Party of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has already depended on the European flag for a long time. This is no longer in your minds, not in your hearts, not in your politics. And we will also measure you, Minister of the Interior, to a great extent, whether you are committed to European solutions on this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] For us it is out of dispute: We can't keep going like last year. That was totally chaos, the people couldn't rely on the state. Of course we need orderly registration, of course we also need emergency solutions when it needs any, but before that you are in the duty to provide European solutions! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And you didn't do that at any time! [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not true! That's not true!]] When Italy had problems with the refugees, you turned away. It was the Austrian Interior Ministers who turned away for years and said: It's none of our business. When Greece had problems, you turned away, said: It's none of our business. – But it matters to us! You only understood when this crisis came to Austria with 71 dead by small truck; and that is the tragedy! What was your reflex then? – They have depended on the European flag and have started to knit national solutions, and that is pathetic! That's pathetic! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] I am very much in favour of some emergency measures. Of course, if something is needed in the short term, we are doing it, only, you are in the duty to advance European initiatives. The image you, the ÖVP, have in your head is very similar to that of the FPÖ. They want to make 28 Schrebergärten with barbed wire fence all around. It's not going to be okay! [[Abg. Is the European Union's failure to take action?]] That will crush our quality of life on this continent! This will affect our prosperity, because after the barbed wire at the border comes, of course, economic protectionism, and the basis of our prosperity was a European unification movement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] In the European Union, much is not good, because we need to do much better, but those who are adopted by the European unification movement will accept quality of life, prosperity and peace, and we will not participate in it! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens as well as the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: It's not about that!]] That is why we will be raising the European flag on every occasion, because Europe is our destiny. [[Abg. Darmann: Pick up the Austrian flag once, that would have failed!]] We are such a small drop of time on this earth, a small drop of time, we are a community of fate. If a hut is burning on this continent, the next day the neighboring hut will burn; we cannot prevent that. We're a community of fate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] It is our duty – and I take the European Party, the former European Party and the former Economic Party of Europe – not to see Europe as an issue of fate, because we have no choice but to understand Europe as a community of opportunities. - And there's too little coming. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wöger.]] Mr. Minister, you can teach me a better one. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, that will be difficult!]] Mr Kurz, Minister for Integration, Europe and External Affairs, also urgently needs a pacemaker, because he alone does not bring much together. Sebastian Kurzgondelt quite impressively through world history, which is quite impressive, I find, but in terms of integration and in terms of Europe there is not really something; therefore, he needs a pacemaker, a clock, and, Minister of the Interior, that can and should be you. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is impressive, yes!]] You can conduct it, so move on! Give me the clock! If you say, Mr Lopatka, there's nothing bringing Europe together, then I remind you: Who is Europe? - All of you sitting here are in European councils. If you say that Europe does not bring anything together and fails, then fail! If you say that Europe needs a plan, then you should start writing this plan in Austria. You didn't do all these things! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] You left out! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Europe is no longer in your minds, in your hearts, that is the problem. [[Abg. Wöginger: We are pioneers in Europe!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Are you satisfied?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I'd like to go to the theme block, how you got into office. I'm here with my colleague Glavischnig: That's not how it's going. We can't make ministerial change in such a way that a state prince, a head of state, says: I present my power-political considerations to the well-being and the Ah and Woe of the Republic! - That's just not how it is! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The script for ministerial change cannot be written purely political. [[Abg. Kogler: This is a government commissioner from St. Pölten! Now, finally, tell me what's going on!]] You are a servant of the people, so you have to understand yourself; and those who nominate you also have to act in this attitude. It didn't happen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr Rädler, this has not happened, and therefore, Mr Rädler, you and your colleagues have more opportunities. We will appoint a President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, a President of the Council, and in this respect there is the urgent desire of the opposition, of us four political groups: Let's make a public hearing! Confess yourself to a public hearing of candidates for the Office of the President of the Court of Auditors! This is an important function, ordered for twelve years. If you don't want to play somewhere in backrooms, say: We are responsible to the people, we are elected representatives of the people, this is an open house!, then make public hearings! You can decide. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] I'll go one step further: In June, the Foundation Council, with its group of friends – set up in party politics – will appoint a new Director-General, a new Director-General of the ORF. Yeah, who's the ORF? – He belongs to us, the people sitting in the gallery, paying ORF fees, all of us! It's our public radio. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It's not okay, Mr Rädler, that you'll mutter in backrooms on this question too! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] It's not okay, and people don't understand that either. You took the nose full. People have their noses full of these things. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... in the ORF!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] This kind of politics was chosen last Sunday and it will be selected at every next election. People have completely removed their noses from this policy. If you want, you can make a public hearing for public broadcasting. Candidates should present their plans for public broadcasting as corporate plans, and we make a public hearing, and we stream that in every budget to ORF III. [[Abg. Wöger:... Plans!]] We pay this station, we want to know what's going on there. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: 80 percent of posts...!]] This is the rule of the people, not the Party Secretariat. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: I would say that the seers should vote!]] – The seers should vote, this too is a proposal, Mr Vice-Chancellor. We can consider new proposals. All in all, we need a new approach to governance, but that's a different story, and I don't have time to do that today. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Oh, he didn't think of anything!]] If you want, we can bring transparency to this House. If you want to continue mushing in back rooms, if you continue as before, then you will experience what you have experienced last Sunday: They're being picked up.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e8745	I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e8767	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! Just a very brief comment to my previous speaker: I didn't know you had to vote for the afternoon debate before. I think we met here because a new member of the government is being presented. We could actually discuss this in an unafraid way, wouldn't we? – That’s how I’d at least see that and mean it. [[Abg. Kogler: In Lower Austria a lot is already used to!]] As a security spokesman of my party – I have already experienced several ministers of the interior – allow me to thank the predecessor – I also deliberately say Hanni – dear and not evil – for the five years of cooperation very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We haven't always had light issues, but I think it's important that we can talk hard on the matter, but we're just going to be right. I can also say: I've known the current Minister of the Interior for about 20 years. Nor have we always had sun and wonder, but hard discussions in the matter, when I think back, dear Wolfgang Sobotka; but I think the important thing is that one defines a common goal and that one simply encounters one person. That's how I see it. I wish you good luck in your new job, too. We will already have some hard discussion to hold, but that is the same thing – also in the life of political mandates. I often get the impression that some certainly don't talk about Austria when they say what's bad with us and how uncertain everything is. I'm one of those who always say: Every single crime is one too much for me!, but that we are one of the safest countries in the international comparison, that is, please, a fact. That's a fact. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is the performance of the Austrian Federal Government, but also of this House, with the decisions we are making here, and – not to mention – our police officers, whom we should simply say thank you, even in such a discussion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Hagen.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes!]] It was this federal government that had already taken precautions when the last legislative period expired, in terms of planning sites in terms of equipment – and now again. I have always invited the opposition man datare to go along, to vote in favour. Look at the results of the vote! There's always talk of planning stations, of personnel, of equipment. – The moment of truth is always here at the time of decision-making; I often have the impression: You do not remember what you are demanding before the vote. That is not how it can be done, ladies and gentlemen. I am glad that this Federal Government, our Federal Government, has recognised where the priorities – and we will still have to discuss this today – are to be set as regards the labour market in terms of education, but also security – in every area. [[Abg. Darmann: Since when have you been in the government again?]] – We two also have the pleasure of having a lot of discussions on and for themselves, dear friend, but that also applies to you, and you know exactly what has already been done here. I assume that if we hear and see what we are going to see today in the course of the debate on the Federal Financial Framework Act – we all know it – then the police – I may also say, at the same time, for the Austrian federal army up to the judicial guard, or, if you want to, up to the teachers, so that we do not forget anyone – will take sufficient precautions to ensure that the tasks, which are admittedly not easy, are properly handled by the individual departments in the interests of our citizens. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, our common task would be to convey security to Austrians. If I listen to some of them, I believe that people are being insecured – and that is by no means our task. I can only say: An important task is security, and the new Minister of the Interior is hard enough – we try to work together, as widely as possible, to do this important task for our citizens very easily! Let us try together to strengthen and help our officials, whether in the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence or the Justice, because they are working together for the Austrians! I would like to invite you to do this. Minister, good for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e8854	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e8875	Mr President. High house! Unfortunately, Mr Pendl has misunderstanded something. As soon as Mr Pendl has sat down, I would like to address what he has said here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Mr Pendl claimed that the government and he are there to convey security to the Austrians. I'll tell you: They are there to ensure safety and not to provide safety – because this is exactly what it is all about. It's about you coming out here and constantly telling me: Austria is such a safe country, everything is good, and the people have only a subjective sense of security that is losing something, but in reality everything is good. But that's not true. If you look at current examples, you can see that not only is the safety – especially of women – in Austria at massive risk, but that something is absolutely wrong in our system. I will now give you an example. Last summer there was a rape in Traiskirchen. There's a 17-year-old Afghan... [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Apparently!]] - It's not supposed to be him. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Apparently 17 years! That's important because of the law of youth punishment!]] – It's said 17, okay; but let's assume that's true. He brutally raped a 72-year-old, beat her, raped her anal, and then took the underwear as a trophy into the house. It was only three months later that one became hesitant because the police kept it as a deadlock in order not to insure the population. Then this Afghan was transferred by means of a DNA analysis. Then he said and wrote 20 months in prison. [[Abg. Kogler: Tell your source! If you say something like that, you should specify the source!]] – Look, you know the story, and you know that he was legally sentenced – to 20 months in prison. Now the question is whether this 72-year-old, who has now landed in the psychiatry, because she does not finish with this experience, will ever walk this Afghan over the road again. I'll tell you: The chances are high. The chances are even very high. Do you know why? – Because it is a practice in Austria that there is no reason for asylum for anyone who takes up less than three years – that is, practically for any rape. You have to imagine that! That is, anyone who does not commit a murder in Austria but rapes “only” is not excluded from the asylum procedure. That means that this Afghan can get asylum and could meet these 72-year-olds. Although he may not get asylum status because he has no asylum grounds – practically all Afghans have no asylum grounds in Austria, and you know that – and he gets a negative asylum notice, this woman cannot be sure whether she does not meet this rapist in Austria anyway. You know why? – Because if he cannot be postponed, and there is a whole latent of reasons why he cannot be postponed, he is simply tolerated here. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly!]] He's not allowed to stay, he's not allowed to work, but he's being tolerated in Austria. He remains in Austria as a so-called submarine and can do what he wants – in Austria. You have to let that break on your tongue. You have to imagine this, even in the current case in which one has raped and reported a ten-year-old: You have to understand, he didn't have sex for several months. Also with him, it could be that if he gets less than three years, as is usual in Austria, he gets an asylum status, then his family reclaims and lives here in Austria. You have to let that break on your tongue. A good friend of mine, one of my oldest friends, is a Lebanese who fled to Austria 15 years ago and now has a family here – with him you can certainly talk about a successful integration – and he gets a stiff neck from loud headshaking, which goes down here in this country. Whenever I meet him, he asks me if we're running somewhere that we're going to tolerate something like this in our country. In the countries from which the refugees come, all this is not tolerated, but we are so stupid – I hope I do not get a call for order – to accept it here, and the question is: Why? Why will that be accepted? – There is no reason for this, except possibly a baffling stupidity. That's why I'm saying: The law we decide today is a first step. This law is not optimal, because one could do much more, because ultimately no one has an asylum ground here in Austria, and not the Afghans and Pakistani, and as they are all called, of which we know they are making problems. That is why we could do much more, but this law – and that is why we will agree with the Stronach team today – is a first step. The question is not whether this law is perfect and whether there is anything else. The question is: What is the alternative? Nothing to do? – That’s not an alternative, and that’s why we go with it today. To return to you too, Minister of the Interior: I hope that you have not only been disposed of by Erwin Pröll in this office to get rid of problems in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Wöger: After hello!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Watch out!]] I hope you're going to be a good Interior Minister. I hope that you drive your officials out of the washrooms to the streets, where they ensure that women in our beautiful country are not raped, that you ensure that all those are locked up, and I hope – unfortunately, the Minister of Justice is no longer there – that we finally change these careless laws so that we can actually get rid of those who actually become criminal here and not let go of the innocent women in Austria again. I believe that we owe this to citizens, and I hope you, as Minister of the Interior, make a contribution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e8986	Federal Minister Mag. Sobotka has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9007	High house! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Appreciative Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! I am pleased that I can and can briefly outline my future work, which I can do in a large, excellent team. I take what has been given to me here by the individual speakers of the political groups and by the club members, very seriously, criticism is always there to review and see his own views: What can be improved in future development? It is not about my person, it is not about the government alone, ladies and gentlemen, but above all about the security of Austrians. It is about what people expect from us that we do everything that is taken very seriously on the one hand by the high standard of security in Austria, but on the other hand also their concerns, their fears and their needs. [[Abg. Höbart: You always say that!]] There it is, I think, absolutely crucial that you keep taking a picture on the spot. I was out very soon to see how the work actually takes place on site. Of course, as a member of the government of a state government, you already have a lot of experience and a lot of contact with the police outside. But what I experience now shows a house, starting from Herrengasse to the last posts, which was excellently managed, which has excellent staff and which – I can say here – has already been mentioned by the previous speakers – has been managed excellently by my predecessor, Mrs Bundesminister a. D. and the now head of stateman in Lower Austria, Johanna Mikl- Leitner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also offer her a warm thank you at this point, a thank you in two ways: that she has always been in front of her employees in difficult times, and that she has kept the security interests of Austria and has never disregarded the European dimension. In this sense, I would like to further develop their course. I have now come into office in the new role at a very positive time, as a budget framework is being adopted, which is also very clearly devoted to security policy. With my colleague Hans Peter Doskozil in the direction – especially when it comes to security issues as a whole – it is also very important for us to have the financial framework in such a way that we can fulfil these tasks. Therefore, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and his team very much for the fact that this is also a security package that we can implement in the perspective by 2020, because it is precisely in the structure of our executives that there are some retirements, and on the other hand, we should be aware that the questions of integration will demand that we have to deal with individual increases in crime now and that we must do everything – not only with a well-equipped, but also with a well-equipped executive – in order to meet them. Therefore, these funds will go mainly to personnel, but not only to personnel equipment, but also to personnel development, because international crime, especially as regards its activities in economic crime, in the field of Internet crime, does not remain. Learning to do so is a very essential thing for us, the equipment has to be updated in order to clearly signal that we are also ready for the coming tasks. A law is still being discussed and passed in the House today, which is essential for us to be able to carry out these tasks as well. There's also one thing I said: It is not from Jux and Tollery, because one may fall back into a non-adequate nationalism, but it is therefore necessary because the European Union and individual Member States cannot or do not want to fulfil their tasks. If Austria today has 10,5 asylum seekers per 1 000 inhabitants, and Italy 1,4, and Italy so far is not ready – I hope that in the next few days I will also be able to convince the members of the Italian Government – to take action, then it is not first an Austrian problem but a European one. If nine infringement proceedings against Italy have been initiated and none of them lead to a conviction, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to act at European level – I am happy to accept all the assistance you offer to convince Europe to come to a joint draft. But on the other hand, it's clear: The security interests of our compatriots are taking place – a minister of the interior must feel committed first. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Prime Minister Wilson once said: “Government exists in setting priorities” – and that is what we want. We want to set priorities in our ministry: in the fight against crime, tow crime, in the fight against crime and, above all, in the fight against terrorism. This has the highest priority for us, because it is precisely these criminal acts that bring the first people who cannot do anything for it into a very special situation and because, secondly, they are also seriously affecting the security of this country. In the same way, however, we want to go out into the communities with the action “Together safe”, which my predecessor has launched. It is essential that security must also be a concern of the population that everyone in his own responsibility must protect his house and also perceive something. We do not want a society of vision, we want a society of looking, where criminal acts are prepared or put. This is something we feel committed to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me come to the end. I'm asking for your discussion. Masaryk, the first president of Czechoslovakia, once said that democracy is debate. But it will not only be about discussing, it will also be about acting. That's what I feel obliged to do. Therefore, at the end of my remarks, I would like to say a warm thank you to those ladies and gentlemen who, on a daily basis at the border between Burgenland and Hungary, where border management has been raised, are acting that the people – I was there and have talked to them – also understand and accept it when they come across the border a little slower, for the police in Tyrol, who have been careful with the demonstrators, but also clearly defended the rule of law – and we all feel committed to the rule of law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9071	The next item is the report by Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9092	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! The new Minister of the Interior has mentioned the first Czechoslovak President Masaryk, who made his first – if you can say so – democratic walking attempts here in the house. He was a Member of Parliament during the monarchy in the Reichsrat, so this is a beautiful arch, Mr Federal Minister, whom you have been excited about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I would like to introduce the opportunity to take advantage of our former Federal Minister for the Interior. Johanna Mikl- Leitner thank you very much. I think she really did a great job in a very, very difficult time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And she did this with great commitment, with the necessary hardness, but also with the necessary sensitivity. These are characteristics which, as I think, also bring along the new Federal Minister for the Interior – I believe that Mr Klubobmann Schieder has done very well in his remarks – namely, on the one hand, a comprehensive political experience – that is, if you experience a new minister, whether it be in the committee or here in plenary; it is nice to have a professional in this function, Mr. Federal Minister – and on the other hand, there is not only this rough shell, which, I believe, is also necessary for the question of internal security, but one can also assume the necessary sensitivity on many issues relating to security. [[Abg. Moser:... Sensitivity!]] And I think our new Minister of the Interior will bring both of these conditions. I wish you every possible good for your work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The debate is interesting once again when one hears what is given the best by the liberals in particular. I really want to disagree very much in one matter. They have been trying to make the Austrians aware since we debate the tightenings in asylum law, in foreign law, and in the Austrians, these would be just placebo measures. [[Abg. Darmann: Right! Bravo!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Darmann, this intervening applause is very cheap, but we take note of it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Darmann.]] - That doesn't matter. You know, I would like to tell you one thing, Mr Darmann: I just wanted to give you the right thing, because with the criticism of the liberals that we are getting too late for some measures, that Europe does not do what it should do, you have a point, but I tell you that the legal measures we are taking now – and many are dealing with these tough measures that are now being put in place, which are not at all easy – are not placebo measures. [[Call at the FPÖ: That's also true!]] If you are now talking about the placebo action, for example, if we are suspending the family estate of subsidiary protectionists, if we are able to reject it at the border, if it is not recognizable that there is an asylum ground, then I am telling you, Mr Darmann, that is not a placebo measure. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We already have that! That's all possible!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's all right now!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Darmann and Mr Scherak.]] These are necessary measures that ultimately define a capacity limit that we reach; and it is simply no longer reasonable for the Austrians in certain areas that it will be exceeded. I am telling you this clearly, and it would actually be appropriate for the liberals to recognise that we are taking necessary measures there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have even more time to discuss this in detail in the following security debate, but one thing I would like to say: Mrs. Klubobfrau Glawischnig, you have criticised the composition of the Federal Government and us here because we have not nominated a woman. Well, maybe you could have set up a female presidential candidate. You chose a man. It may also have something to do with quality. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: That's wrong! He's decided for himself!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I don't know. We have opted for a high-quality interior minister – and I wish him all the best and a happy hand again.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9260	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9281	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since I was referred to several times, it is important to give some replicas at the beginning. Mr Amon, with all personal respect, I already have to give you a lot of information on the way towards the asylum law. We currently have all legal possibilities to reject any stranger who has no right to come to Austria at the Austrian border. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Only the instruments that have so far been given to us – applicable national and international law – have not been applied by your SPÖ-ÖVP government. That's fact; we don't come by. That is why there is also our clear opinion on this Placeboasyl Act, which will be nothing else – since we are debating it in detail today – as a patchwork of asylum law, which will be released six months ago to the Austrian population, but ultimately, all the rules that are given will never be applied by you. But we'll talk about it a little later in detail. I should also like to address the Federal Minister for the Interior directly at the outset, and also to thank you for the correctness that you have put to the point that it will be a priority to highlight the protection of your own home in your work as well. But I also understand this in the form – and we take you to the floor – that there will be no intensification of Austrian arms law, Federal Minister. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] Now it is once again the case that we here in the House have a not so unimportant debate on a reform of government. And who's missing behind me on the government bank? - The Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Don't have time!]] [[Abg. Höbart: Discussing right now with...!]] No one is surprised that he has gone once again when it comes to designing the skills of the country and introducing here people who will have an essential responsibility for security in our country. I am still confident that you will also take the opportunity to put this responsibility into action within the meaning of our people, in the sense of our home country, in the sense of security executive staff. Mr. Federal Minister, you have this opportunity, which you should also have, and I really hope – even as a citizen – that you will use it. I would like to quote that has taken a very interesting path through the Austrian media landscape in the last few days and describes very well the state of the Austrian Federal Government. I quote – and this also fits well with the absence of the Federal Chancellor: “He is the master of dispensing, towing, delaying, and hiding away.” They all know that the German Chancellor Faymann was talking about when the Lower Austrian head of state Erwin Pröll brought his definition by the Federal Chancellor and his understanding of office. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I think it's a very correct definition. It is usually not my way of losing very critical words about people in the absence, but if he has gone, I can do nothing, then I will tell him here about the speaker's seat You, Federal Chancellor Faymann, are in fact the real problem of this Austrian Federal Government. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Don't go any differently! He's never here!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not know if you have done it – you could have done it in the last few days – but if you had seen it in the eyes of your comrades, who are also sitting here in the House, then you would have recognized exactly that, Mr. Federal Chancellor, because I believe that many of the comrades here in the House see it in the same way that you are the real problem in this government, that therefore in Austria a standstill is being lived for years and that your own population remains on the track. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Keck and Mr Plessl.]] The peace in the SPÖ ranks confirms me here in a certain way. The fact that the Austrian population would have wished for a government transformation in the way that Federal Chancellor Faymann declared its resignation by means of the remote welcome unculture today is therefore self-evident. In this statement, which he has given of himself today, he could also have apologised at the same time for the political miscarriage he has done in recent years – from A to unemployment to Z, such as immigration. This uncontrolled and thus illegal mass immigration under the cover of asylum is also behind which, at least last year, the Federal Chancellor himself hid himself in his highest personal stagnation policy, but with which he has at the same time created the handcuffs of all the still present and also the no longer present members of the government. It would also have been up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to free themselves from these handcuffs and to become active, not to be regulated by a Federal Chancellor without a people and finally to pass on something for the Republic of Austria. We liberals know, I believe, that most of the Members here in the House, including the SPÖ Members, know, the members of the government know, and of course the Austrian people know that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has been running into a Merkel's invitation policy to immigrants from all over the world, that he is still hoping for help, support from the European Union, and in doing so he always forgets that he himself, with his colleagues in government and as head of government, would have the responsibility to finally follow his words. If we have learned from one of the last few years, then if we rely on the EU, we are ourselves, that we can only take the reins in our own hands and that, of course, we have to bear in mind one thing, namely that it was also this German chancellor, who has forced his government to bring about a million people to Austria – unregistered, unregistered – and then, when they were there, most of them to be dragged through Austria – and this is illegal – and that with these one million migrants, terrorists and serious criminals have found their way to Austria. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] As we can learn from the media every day, the victims must now feel on their own every day that this government under Chancellor Faymann has been detained in police posts and opened up against asylum quarters at the same time that, across all corners and ends, across from the police to the Austrian Federal Army, the Savingstift was put in place to fall back on the security of the Austrian population. [[Abg. Rädler: Now it's gonna be fad!]] [[Abg. Lueger: It's wrong! Amalgamation!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Communication!]] I would like to stress once again, Mr Pendl – I said this last time in the debate on security policy – that: It is really not about conveying a sense of security, but about ensuring security in Austria with the policy. And that's a huge difference if you want to get your political understanding to the point. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] That's why I'm telling you: There are a large number of needs to be implemented, Mr Sobotka, Federal Minister of Finance, a variety of needs, Mr. Finanzminister, a variety of needs which the Austrian population has been waiting for for a very long time. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: They're just in...!]] If we are talking about border controls and border control, then of course these words should also be illustrated in facts, then there must also be measures at the border and then, in consultation with the Minister of State Defense, the green border must be secured so that, as it would be necessary, there is also an absolute stop to asylum and immigration within the current legal framework. Mr. Federal Minister, this EU sluggishry and this responsible immigration policy of the European Union, as it continues to be driven forward, must be firmly opposed by a self-confident appearance of the Republic of Austria in the field of asylum and immigration. It should not be the case, as has often been the case so far, that, in the normal case, everything has been adjusted by the European Union, up to the EU-Turkey-deal - you know what I am addressing - which will result in the Austrian taxpayer having to take care of it with Austrian tax money in the future, for example, that Portuguese officials will decide when as many other migrants will find the way to Austria to be unloaded on the shoulder of the Austrian population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] That means that there are a variety of tasks that you have to deal with. I wish you, as mentioned earlier, that you take this opportunity and take advantage of it to make Austrian security policy a self-confident security policy, in the sense of the Austrian people, in the sense of your staff, the security executive, the quality of the hand, and also to implement the necessary measures. - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9462	Mrs Lueger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9484	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Values Advisors! Minister, the expectation is very high. That should be the open cooperation we are doing together for our country. I cordially invite you to do so and of course I also offer the support from us. If I now see that we have already heard in the debate about the federal financial framework that there is additional money – money for the Ministry of the Interior, money for the state defense – then I think this is very positive, because there are enough challenges to be financed with it, but please – and you have also said it again in your own statements – do not forget the executive officials who are outside. Don't forget, as you yourself have said, to increase these personnel, to equip them with modern equipment, and to have to think about the Executive's fleet a little bit, above all, that's what was also applied to me! I would ask you to take this as an inspiration. I would like to continue to wish me good cooperation between you and the Minister of Defence. I think we need this very much in the current border management. However, this must always be done on the basis of human rights, fundamental rights and asylum rights. I'll take the safety back again. The fears of the population must be taken seriously. – This is a sentence that has been very, very often liked, which we very often take into our mouth here too. Help you to act against those who play with it to startle fears and try to maintain the negative subjective sense of security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] We know that the subjective sense of security of the population often fails to deal with the objective sense of security, which is often even more contradictive. Help you develop strategies so that the subjective sense of security with the objective sense of security is back on a line and that this is a direction for people to live well with! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: An objective sense of security? Are we in the Philosophic, where a fence...!]] Please be active in helping! You have a very large place, and in your resort is also the Person Status Act established. They have many big, difficult challenges. I would like to start with a very small one and take it very much at the word: You said you took suggestions very seriously. There have been since 22. In October 2014, a joint request from all six political groups here in the house, which concerns so-called star children. Star children are children who come to the world with a birth weight of less than 500 grams – partly living, partly not living. For these star children, there is currently no possibility of being recognized as persons and registered in accordance with the Person Status Act. I know that this is a small topic, but I think it is a good help for those parents who are affected by such a tragic incident. My knowledge is already with you in the department a draft on this subject, and I would ask you: Maybe we'll do it again this year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9535	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9557	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciated guests at the gallery! I would particularly like to welcome our young guests, who listen and watch us today! It's nice you're here! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see a Europe with a common and common-funded asylum system, a Europe in which those countries that are at the present much sought-out European values, such as solidarity, aid for weak, protection for persecuted people, who are responsible, are supported by the common EU budget. In the case of the Greens, there should be €1600 per year from the common European budget. [[Call the FPÖ:Protectors!]] For those countries that fulfil and go beyond the fixed quota that we absolutely need for a fair distribution of protection seekers in Europe, there should be full cost replacement. Austria would benefit, for example, because last year we received more protection seekers than many other EU countries did. Another Europe is possible, and we are part of this other Europe for which we are fighting. We are a twenty-eightth of this Europe. Today, the EU has repeatedly been talking about: The EU should do so, the EU has not done so and the EU has been disabled. Our Chancellor, together with 27 other Heads of State or Government, is sitting in the European Council. He has the opportunity there to force things that go exactly in the direction of Europe, which I have tried to outline in a few words. Instead, this Federal Government unfortunately has all the power and millions of tax money in border fences and scrapping. [[Abg. Hagen: This is the wrong speech, that is the next item on the agenda!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, that's in TV time!]] We also receive a new Minister of the Interior of Pröll's Grace – an interior minister, to whom I can only wish for the good of the country all good and good success and do so. [[Call the FPÖ:Just keep going!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hagen]] That he is doing good work is necessary and sensible and desirable for all of us, for our country. At the same time, we cannot hide the political past of a person, who has been in politics for many years and is politically very experienced. Mr. Wolfgang Sobotka, Minister of the Interior, served as the Finance Council for many years for the Lower Austrian national finances. [[Abg. Rädler: Now it's coming back!]] In his term of office, about € 1 billion of housing funds were put into speculation or playful by speculation on exchanges. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: More, more than one and a half!]] Here I have an article from “The Press” of December 2012 entitled: ‘The Lower Austrian residential building fee-Voodoo’. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] I quote: “As in Salzburg, millions have been lost in St. Pölten, even if politics does not want to do so. An analysis.” – This is the subtitle of the article. – The country of Lower Austria has gone to the financial markets “by 2002 with means of housing promotion”. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Again to the memory: The means of housing are funds that are available for this to enable the living of the living, so that people – single parents with children, families with a small income – can afford to live. Unfortunately, these funds in Lower Austria have been used by God for speculation – with the “success” – under quotation marks – of about € 1 billion loss, which the Court of Auditors has also confirmed. [[Abg. Höfinger: Incorrect...!]] Now, of course, we can say that we wish Mr Wolfgang Sobotka, our new Minister of the Interior, much success or a more successful work in his new function. We all wish for an orderly reception of people who are seeking protection. Yes, there should be an orderly registration – not only in Austria, but everywhere in the EU. There should be a fair distribution among all EU countries. We would like him to complete his energy in joint European and jointly funded solutions, instead of in border fences that cost millions of tax money, in decommissioning that does not work, and is in a farewell to human rights. [[Abg. Matznetter stands at the government bank and talks with the Federal Ministers Schelling and Sobotka.]] – I am very pleased that male colleagues can enjoy themselves so well during the speech of colleagues – so much so much for the appreciative handling in Parliament. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rädler and Mr Walter Rosenkranz.]] [[Abg. Höfinger: At some point the tension was gone!]] Minister of the Interior, I hope that your first political act will not be the support of emergency regulations. This item is the next item on the agenda. A regulatory emergency is to be introduced. I will say something in detail later on, but if that is the case, it would be the beginning of the end of the rule of law. If one dares to suspend human rights securitised with emergency regulations, then we have no guarantee at all that this federal government will not say in the morning: [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] The secret of the letter is in our way, there is a danger of terror, so we will abolish the secret with an emergency order, we will abolish data protection. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] That means: Whoever believes that the intensification of today would meet only those seeking protection, he is extremely mistaken. It is about fundamental and human rights of all of us. [[Call to the FPÖ: Most of them are not those seeking protection, and this is what it is all about!]] In this sense: Let's defend our fundamental rights together! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9771	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9793	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Korun – no, later, not now. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! A fence has a name, that is fence.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9817	A moment please, Mr Rädler. Mr Matznetter, I wanted You have already asked to end this long conversation at the government bank, but if you turn your backs on the speaker in the middle, then I have to step in! Please, Mr Rädler.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e9850	A fence has a name, that is fence. [[Abg. Kogler: Then you are sunk!]] A ceiling also has a name, that is to say, upper limit. You will notice in a few days that security also has a name, namely Sobotka. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kogler.]] Who knows him and does not view him as Mrs Korun, his activities... [[Calls to the Greens.]] – Mr Kogler is the specialist for all discoveries. [[Call the FPÖ: He wants to be something else in Lower Austria!]] Mr Kogler is acting at the hypo in Carinthia and wherever it is. There is a cult series on German television: “Familie Heinz Becker”. That's how the Greens now come to me: Mr Becker is the Member of Parliament of Pilz, who sits in the Ruderlebenl in the municipality building, well equipped, and everyone he sees running around in the envy complex. Mr Kogler comes with old phrases, which Mr Korun has reinforced. Do you know how the country election took place in Lower Austria? – You quoted the 2012 press: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] We have a digit drop with 1 billion € in it! Not € 1 billion has been invested, but € 1 billion has been allocated to the budget in Lower Austria despite times of crisis. You didn't hear that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] [[Abg. Kogler: What are you talking about?]] And if you're still drumming out of the past and quoting from 2012: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun]] You have already received the answer in Lower Austria in 2013 at the Landtagswahl. The Greens have lost, Mr Kogler, and you, Mrs Korun, are not familiar with yourself in Lower Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Is wrong again!]] But I would now like to come to the reform of the government: I remember the year 2004... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Mr Collegue of the left half of the Reich, listen once! - Hopefully! [[Abg. Matznetter: I just praised Lower Austria!]] [[Abg. Loacker: There can be no mention of “half”!]] In 2004 we arrived at this plenary room when the Black and Blue Federal Government for the first time passed amendments to the Asylum Act, such as the fact that in the appeal procedure, when looking for asylum, one cannot give a new reason and so on. I remember standing up there, and the left half of the empire is daily – green and red – with black T-shirts, on which it is said: [[Abg. Loacker: What does half mean?- Oh, my God!]] Kreisky was also an asylumist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] I am already excited about how this relationship will have an impact in the SPÖ in the votes – with great support from the Greens, who are against it, of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Please, my colleague, Mr von den NEOS! One word on this: We no longer live – as one might want to communicate – under the Kreisky doctrine, on the island of the Blessed. All debates led by apostate SPÖ mandaters – as today also by Mrs Colleague there – and this disgraceful action of socialist youth... [[Abg. Wenninger: Now get you a little bit together!]] This disgraceful action of the socialist youth, who also laid a box in front of your door with a children's body, calling on the Chancellor of the Federal Republic to resign – you must clarify this in your own ranks, and not bring about a division of Austria between left and right, led from left, from Van der Bellen, Korun and as they all are called, up to the ladies who appear on the red side against your own Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] 1 500 police officers are being recruited this year, 750 are coming to the border, 500 officials are coming to the BFA, and everything is still too little. Where does this left half live? What's going on in this country? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Return to the ground of reality! Our new Minister of the Interior will remain on the ground of reality, as he has successfully done in Lower Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10087	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10108	Mr President. I welcome you, Minister. The musical talent of our minister has not yet been sufficiently praised. So I'm going to greet him with a musical quote, and I'm going to read: ‘We’re all excited, but we don’t know why, maybe it’s ‘cause we’re all gonna that’. Of course, you have long recognized it, it is a text line of the recently deceased American pop singer named “The Artist Formerly Know as the Symbol Formerly Know as Prince” from the song “Let’s Go Crazy”. – This is something like the BMI’s motto in view of the asylum novels to be decided on. Mr Scherak will later explain why this novelle should be classified as illegal, unlawful and unconstitutional as human rights. I appeal to you to use your role to help you to understand the concerns, fears and needs – as promised – also the concerns, fears and needs of organizations such as the Red Cross, Amnesty International and the People's Aid. You've got this letter for sure. I also give you a second wish on the way to the Police State Protection Act. It is also necessary to make some repairs in this law. As you know, the State Protection Act allows intervention before action. This is a bundle of prevention measures, and this inevitably affects fundamental rights. Powers will be created and expanded, and surveillance will be based on suspicion, data collected. What's the danger? – There is a danger if the crime catalogue, if these powers are not narrow and precise, are expropriated, dirty and not properly described, and if this cannot be controlled. It is delicate instruments without which prevention would not be possible. But that means that they need to be better protected. This is done in two ways: Firstly, of course, this happens at the time of approval. We demand a judicial approval which is not provided for now. Secondly, we would like to see a better parliamentary control of these measures when considering these measures. If you are committed to focussing on fundamental rights-saving prevention measures, build up appropriate personnel! Interest In this respect, you are also in favour of dealing with new technologies, and set up a monitoring account to evaluate what measures are at all effective, proportionate and necessary! They have said that the security interests of the countrymen are taking action. Protect So please also the countrymen and their privacy before intervening in this privacy! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Above all the consultation in...!]] A third point that may still be very important: The cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior must, of course, work well, but the Constitution clearly determines which tasks are to be carried out in the Ministry of the Interior and which are to be fulfilled in the Ministry of Defence. Mr Minister, you determine which assistance you need from the Federal Army, and ask for it. Please don't let the Minister of Defense grow up, especially no military transport machines for deportation! Stay with the civil variant! It is more cost-effective, flexible and legal. So that all this doesn't sound so negative, I would like to finish by making you a little bit of joy. My friends from the Lower Austrian ÖVP have told me that you have a flaw for gambling. So if you'd like to play, I'd like to make a bet with you. It is something like a foreign currency speculation. I brought 1 000 Italian lire. [[The speaker keeps a note of money up to date.]] You may also be able to spend them now that you are trying to put Italy out of the EU again. I bet you're no longer Ministers of the Interior in 2018. Here's the bet. If I win, you can just give it back to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10165	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10192	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the audience gallery and in front of the TV screens! I think there's hardly any other subject than the one we've been working on in recent months, where the Ministry of the Interior has specifically been in the exhibition: What legal measures should be taken on the subject of immigration of foreigners, asylum seekers and refugees of war? The subject is a cross-sectional matter that demands us very much. But today we have the opportunity to do something positive, to implement something that is unfortunately necessary because there is no better alternative at present. We've heard today that there are different views. There are Members who are calling for us all to be included. I am pleased that Mr Korun has already said in the Committee that it is no longer possible to include everyone, because – and the Minister of the Interior has reported this in the last Committee on the Interior – solidarity is not available in the European Union. Today, colleagues here have claimed that there are no attempts at European level on the part of this Federal Government. – I think the only one who was really a lot on the road, together with the then Minister of the Interior, was our Federal Chancellor. It has tried to reach an agreement with the other Member States. To date, however, we have not succeeded in finding a reasonable solution, so action must be taken. [[call to the FPÖ]] These are not always simple, but necessary. Mr Rädler, I would like to remind you of the following: Now police inspections have been put together. You said that from 2000 to 2006 – you were so proud – but over 3,000 police planning stations have been reduced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] – That is why we, as social democrats, looked at the fact that in 2008 more police officers were working for Austria again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder:... 10 years needed for this!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Where is the Minister Strasser?]] There is a field of tension, we understand, and I therefore welcome the statements of the new Minister of the Interior Mag. Sobotka, who spoke about border management and not about setting up miles of fences. He also mentioned the great willingness of the Austrians and the lack of solidarity in the European Union. If there were such solidarity, then we would not have a discussion today, then there would be no need to decide on further measures in order to maintain our social standard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] Mr Sobotka has spoken about a special provision and not about an emergency regulation, as some Members have mentioned it. He referred to the fears and fears that we must take seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] We must therefore also take responsibility for our Foreign Minister, who is also Minister for Integration, and there would be still some measures needed to ensure better cooperation. The Federal Government has never invested so much in the field of security, in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, but also in the state defense. Because it's always being discussed, I don't see Mr Darmann – ah, there he is – now: [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] At European level, there are enough examples – Mr Vilimsky, on the other hand, has spoken as a member of the European Parliament in the National Council; now he always comes by and explains what is in the European Union – and I look at the various points that are not carried by the FPÖ at European level and which have been voted against, for example: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Neubauer and Mr Darmann]] Setting up an investigation committee on Panama Papers, for greater transparency – in that case your FPÖ members voted against – or protecting the Whistleblowers, those people who trust and report abuses and who are then exposed to persecutions – you have voted against them too; or indignant tax practices, you have also voted against at European level. [[Abg. Neubauer: How often did you vote against the Investigation Committee? – 24 times!]] [[Abg. Darmann:... voted against the Hypo-Research Committee!]] Please coordinate internally once so that we can achieve proper results in these areas. We want to guarantee justice for all people in our Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10324	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10355	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister Sobotka, you are chief of the police, the executive, that is an important position, I would say once. [[Call the FPÖ:So do yours!]] As my future boss, I observed you yesterday in the “ZIB 2”, I listened to your remarks, and I noticed a lot of things. I have given your predecessor more often here from the speaker's desk of tips, and I suppose you have already received some of these tips I have given, because I can only explain to myself the following: [[Green call for tender]] Mr. Federal Minister, you have said there literally that only 40 percent of refugees or asylum seekers receive asylum in Austria, which means 60 percent are not entitled to asylum. Mr Minister, you have also said there that many economic refugees are in the process of waiting in Libya for more than 2 million refugees who want to translate to Italy, and that most of them are economic refugees; you have said this literally. You have also brought the example – and you mentioned it earlier – that in Austria there are 10.5 inhabitants of asylum in Austria; in Italy it is only 1.4, and in Greece, you said in the Committee, it is 1.2 per 1 000 inhabitants. That's a good thing you realized that we have a big problem here. We will then discuss this more intensively at the next item on the agenda, but I can't afford to talk about it very briefly here. They have also addressed crime, namely that crime in Austria has increased specifically by asylum seekers, but also in general. Today, I and my group will have some proposals with good tips on how to deal with this whole thing. Mr Lugar has already mentioned that we do not bring many away; You said yesterday in the "ZIB" itself that we cannot move many who do not belong to our country. There is a great request from me, who is coming afterwards, regarding EU camps in North Africa, in which exactly these people who have not received asylum here, who have nothing to look for here, who have become criminalized here, can temporarily be sent to wait until they are then taken back from their home country. [[Green call for tender]] This is an important step. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One thing has also remained in my mind: I've been looking at the newspapers in the last few days, and in the weekend, there's been a bad rape by asylum seekers in the Prater, there were three Afghans in there. In Graz, a student got through at the last minute – how to say? – Hearted intervention by other students in the face of rape, including an Afghan asylum seekers. In Salzburg there was a rape at a tent festival, also by an Afghan asylum seekers. And interesting is: every 17 years. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of things going wrong! I think they've probably been older, and everyone says he's 17 years old, so that he'll get into the law of youth when he's caught. That is something we need to look at more closely, Mr Minister, there is much to do. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] I would like to draw attention to another point, since you are the chief of the police, who are executive: I recently received a request reply from your predecessor that there are a lot of burnouts in the police because the people are overburdened, but we also have a lot of injured police, through foreign influence, and this is increasing massively. The skrupel – I hear from colleagues – of cisterns to take physical and massive action against the police with violence is losing, and in particular police are suffering. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We are very much required to put a bar on the whole. I would also like to address other problems with the police, namely the shortage of personnel. In the meantime, a lot of women are in the police, which is also a positive thing, but I have not been told at the time that we need overhanging for these women's planning posts, because of course sometime the children's wish comes and many of these women then work part-time or are in Karenz. [[Abg. Maurer: The men don't have that...!]] – Well, in general! Mrs Colleague, you can speak for yourself afterwards; in the case of trinque, you are always big, I know. I'll tell you one thing: There are, of course, already problems that those who remain, the officials – not just men – have to do overtime, all the night services have to take over, and this is a big problem, because this is about physical health. There is also a request from me for the “50 plus” model. This “50 plus” model means that executive officials who are over 50 years of age can choose whether they are still doing as many night shifts or as many overtime as they are prescribed. The problem with us is: If the staff is scarce, then you get it prescribed and then you have to do overtime whether you want or not. This is about physical health, because one lacks rest phases. It would be an important step to do something there too, Minister. I have put in many, many applications, and there will be some more. I'll give you my hand, we'll be happy to talk to each other. I met you, and I was delighted yesterday when I met an official of the Ministry of the Interior, whom I knew well, on the tramway, who said: Well, he's not as bad as you said! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak.]] This is a positive step, Mr Minister, I believe you can speak to you, and I will take this as well. I think you can also take advantage of my help, as I bring you many, many requests and show you the right path where we can do a lot that benefits both the executive and the population. Mr Minister, I would like to invite you to do so. I think that would be the right step. There's a lot to do. You said it was important to act. Let's start, Minister, quickly! I wish you good luck at your Heads of Government, because they will really need you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10434	Mr Hagen, the replica “Dreinquatchen” on a call from a Member is not on the list of legitimate statements, nor am I telling you, but I am no longer surprised when, as before, I get an e-mail from a television viewer who is very excited about that debate – and it is probably not only this – generally little-estimate way of dealing with each other. I can understand the excitement of this television viewer, he won't be the only one. I ask all ladies and gentlemen for a more careful choice of words and a more appreciative way of dealing with each other. [[Parliament adopted a resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling ……]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] The next speaker is Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10474	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, Wolfgang Sobotka has already had his fire test here in Parliament on Monday, namely in the Committee on the Interior, and he has made it clear that he will consistently continue to carry on the line that Johanna Mikl-Lebenner has taken, because the refugee crisis is far from over and a return to the situation we had before a three-quarters of a year would catapult us again. This is still a common European line and a common support in the countries of refuge. The European indecisiveness we find today is certainly not to blame Austria, but to show the weaknesses of European solidarity, if one is less or less affected – the so-called Floriani principle – and that the ideas on asylum issues are still far different. It is no wonder, then, that Austria is going its own way, for example in safeguarding the borders where we do not stop but want to ensure a regulated entry ; or do we call it a self-determination, who is allowed to enter and who is not. [[Call the SPÖ:Grenzmanagement!]] The introduction of the ceiling also shows that we are not pressing ahead with responsibility, but that we are offering help to people who need help – to the extent that we can vote for it ourselves. Today we will continue to deal with the new asylum and security package, which is another important step in Austrian security policy. In addition, there are of course also many other security-politically relevant issues. Wolfgang Sobotka has already addressed one of them, namely the fight against Internet crime. We see ourselves faced with an increasing number of crimes, be it phishing, whether it be hacking, social engineering or many other things. It is also about ensuring IT security and protecting critical infrastructure – an issue that concerns all of us, whether as a private person, whether as a company, whether as an authority or in politics. It is therefore also important that the measures introduced by Johanna Mikl- Leitner or already in implementation are continued. An important discussion or a discussion between authorities, industry and science has already taken place in order to provide the basis for, for example, a cybersecurity law. It is important to continue to do exactly that. It is certain that all current and future projects relating to the security of this country, which concern our citizens, need a strong and competent representative in this role. Wolfgang Sobotka has 18 years of experience in government work in Lower Austria, has gained experience and proved enforceability. And just as energetic as it has been for the interests of Lower Austria, so energetically – I am convinced – he will also stand up for the interests in terms of security and migration in Austria, but also at European level. That is why I wish him all the best and much strength in his role as Minister of the Interior for the challenges ahead of him and all of us. I would like to thank our former Minister of the Interior and now head of the state in Lower Austria Johanna Mikl-Leiter for her many years of work. In the past, she has had to face many major challenges – perhaps the biggest challenges in the Second Republic – and has brought them a good way in the sense of the Austrians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10507	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10529	Ladies and gentlemen! A little more openness would do us well. I can still remember the fact that the current Minister of the Interior has publicly called to the current Minister of Finance: “At Philippi we meet again”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] You obviously did not expect Erwin Pröll, because Erwin Pröll did not send you to Philippi, but to Vienna, and we are willing to give you political asylum here, because anyone who can give as a reason for escape Erwin Pröll has earned political asylum in Vienna. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with representatives of Greens, SPÖ and NEOS, as well as cheerfulness with the Federal Ministers Schelling and Sobotka.]] Mr President, I say this in all my appreciation so that there is no misunderstanding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] About We can only suspect your professional qualifications in security policy, Minister of the Interior. They have made a name for themselves as a financial expert and residential expert in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Rädler: The Old Vorder...!]] You have not speculated more than € 1 billion in taxpayers' money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This has nothing to do with security policy, so I will not go into it in detail now. & Insert To know more about the qualifications in this respect, only relevant daily newspapers and magazines and so on need to read. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But now I come to the security policy: I have never understood why members of the Federal Government of the FPÖ follow one point, namely that humanity and reason exclude each other in dealing with the refugee crisis. With everything I know about strategies in the refugee crisis, I know that it is only through a close combination of humanity and reason. This has a very simple reason, and I'm starting with the rape cases in Vienna. These are important and increasingly important issues of Austrian security policy: How do we protect potential victims, women, not only in Vienna, from rape, in which one is clear: that they are dealing not only with but also with the problems of the refugee crisis and the refugee movements, with major integration problems and major integrations? I was in Jordan. I recommend something – not out of self-interest –: In today’s issue, the “Falter” publishes my travel report with an attempt to talk about Jordanian lessons. [[Call to the FPÖ: Why does it not surprise me that he is in the “Falter”...?- Oh, my God!]] An important Jordanian lesson is: On the illegal way, the strongest ones come to us, but these are not necessarily the ones we can best integrate. The women with the little children are not only stuck in the Jordanian camps – and whoever was once in these camps knows that; in Zaatari 79 500 refugees are stuck, with far too little money from Europe, far too little support from the international community – but the mothers there also tell us: We don't put our children in boats and we don't put them in a refrigerator! This risk is the most likely young men to take. The first lesson is: Those who do not open legal escape routes will have to live by the fact that there are illegal escape routes. There are only two groups that benefit from illegal escape routes: organized tow crime and right-wing extreme parties. These are the two profiters of illegal escape routes. That is why the highest standard of security policy is to open legal escape routes, just as Canada did in Jordan in an exemplary way. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To date, I do not understand why Austria is saying that we can achieve significant progress in security, integration policy here, we are waiting for the Czech, Polish and Hungarian governments. That's absurd! Then we will simply solve problems and simply not solve them. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why I urge not only you, Minister of the Interior, but the entire Federal Government to take this seriously at last. This is the first great lesson of security policy. The second great lesson has little to do with internal security. It means simply investing in integration. If ÖVP politicians, and not just them, get up and say that we will force the asylum seekers and asylum seekers to learn German, but not to say that they don't even offer the courses that simply and simply lack offers – yes, how should people be motivated to do something if they don't invest? And that's the third lesson: Every euro and every cent in helicopters, in armored vehicles, in even more soldiers and police on the border is a misinvestment if we cannot respond positively to the questions of integration and the questions of legal means of escape to Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You too, Minister of the Interior, are in the licensing contest: Who presents the more inhuman program?, Who is further escalating in the fight against refugees?, in the middle of the liberal trap. – If you believe that this will bring anything, then you will find that the next big towing attempt, which hopefully doesn’t end as tragic as some in the past, simply doesn’t. That's why it would be great if you, as a new Minister of the Interior, were to say: Let's start again! Let us speak openly about how we solve these problems in a legal, reasonable and human way! If we are setting up coalitions of the willful with Germany, Sweden and some other states, then we have a chance in the European Union! Let's try something new! With the takeover of the liberal recipes you are and all your other members of the Federal Government have failed. That's why I wish you success in rethinking. We are available as interlocutors. But we are not available for the adoption of the free movement policy into the government programme. For this you can have a parliamentary guarantee from us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10642	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10664	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What does an Interior Minister need? – It needs enforcement, it needs the courage to also call for measures that are in the hands of some, while at the same time requiring a high level of responsibility. And he also needs this awareness of responsibility in order to ensure the security of Austria in full. With Wolfgang Sobotka, we have a new Minister of the Interior, who will definitely bring these conditions and these qualifications. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite the high quality of life we have, the Austrian population is actually experiencing uncertainty. That's exactly where it's supposed to be. We must take people's fears seriously and govern them. We must fight against action – whether it be border protection on the one hand or the fight against crime on the other. We must jointly ensure that the rule of law, stability and public order are guaranteed through targeted control. This is our joint mission and we will be happy to support Wolfgang Sobotka. We must take seriously the concerns of people about alienation through, for example, the refugee crisis on the one hand, but also the question of whether we can finance it on the other. Here it is necessary to react with propriety and with cohesion. [[Complementary of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] It does not help us when, instead of acting, we try to pour oil into the fire. That doesn't make any sense. We must remember, however, that there is a need for work inside, for example border protection, and for external work, for example, for European solution. But it is not just a European solution. I would like to make it clear that there can be no Rosins-Picken-Theory among the refugees. If you want asylum in Europe, you can't choose where, and it must be independent of whether it is Sweden, Austria, Slovakia or Poland. It is really a global issue. The UN is required. The question is also justified: What are the Arab states that are actually at home in the local region? Ladies and gentlemen! With the new Minister of the Interior, we have a personality that on the one hand has political experience. I think a very essential condition is his experience in municipal activity. I would like to make the following comment: Many in this House would probably do well if they had experience in local politics, because those who have gained experience in local politics or are at home there know what the majority of people think, how the sense of reality of people is, what concerns and fears they have, also what kind of circumstances. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] We need to react to that. Personally, I've known Wolfgang Sobotka for a long time. I know that he really has handshake quality and that the cooperation is the priority for him – only when I think of the project Machland Nord, the Machland high water protection, the municipalities of Mauthausen to St. Nikola, the cooperation Upper Austria and Lower Austria, where truly human quality, handshake quality was seen. And that's exactly what we need. When it comes to security, we also need an interior minister who sets out specific measures for internal security and, of course, ensures that human rights are respected. With security policy in recent years, we have always gone the right way. Not least thanks to the tireless Our former Minister of the Interior Johanna Mikl- Leitner is still one of the safest countries in the world. I believe and I am sure that Wolfgang Sobotka will continue this path of stability, eye-to-eye and house understanding. We don't need exaggeration on the one hand or dreaming on the other. We need consistent work in the Ministry of the Interior in the sense of the Austrian population. Mr Sobotka, I wish you every success. You have our support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10740	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10761	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Mr Sobotka, you have now received a large package of wishes from the various political groups. I'll give you another one at the end. They come from the country's policy, and you know in particular that, unfortunately, in Austria it is God's The Federal States have not complied with the quotas for years in the accommodation of refugees. Her predecessor has repeatedly confirmed this, too. At the moment, it is only Vienna that manages to fulfill the quota. If you look at the federal states that are in the last four places in terms of quota performance, then three of them are with green country refugees, what, I think, is also very significant. They know that Lower Austria has always met with a trick by calculating Traiskirchen, which has fulfilled quotas. In other words, you may be able, with your experience of national policy, to enforce it accordingly. What we need in refugee policy is European solutions, which are long-term and solidary, but we also need solidarity within Austria and, above all, long-term solutions. We have seen again and again in the past year and before how the Federal Government is heaving a little of the challenge behind it. We had the first situation in May last year that we had to build tents to accommodate refugees. In the summer we had the shame of Traiskirchen, where over weeks young people, children and women had to stay in the meadow because it was not possible to provide the appropriate accommodation. I believe that we must learn from the need for long-term solutions. I also did not understand the debate whether we need a fence, a door with side sections and so on. I think Nickelsdorf has already shown at that time how an orderly border management can work. We then had the discussion about a ceiling where the Heads of Government were the first to believe that it is not necessary to consider whether this is legally possible, because it is first of all a political agreement. Afterwards, it was legalized. The opinions both have said that there cannot be a fixed ceiling. I believe that such short-sightedness and thoughtful action in connection with asylum policy in Austria will not help us. I think it makes sense and would think it is very appropriate for us to create solutions here together with all the federal states, because this will not work differently. I think we have shown in many areas what national action plans can bring. And I think it makes sense if we also implement such a one in Austria. Mr. Federal Minister, there are other points that were very relevant and to which you, your predecessor and also the ÖVP – in many areas also the SPÖ – have said that you want to implement them. It is about the creation of legal means of entry. This must, of course, work at European level. But it is also about things that we could move forward in Austria itself. On the one hand, this is about the question of resettlement. You know: So far, we have recorded only 1,500 Syrians in Austria via a resettlement program with the UNHCR. Then you don't need to wonder that many of the refugee camps are getting on their way from there. I think we have to move forward much faster, so that we can get exactly those out of the camps, from Syria and Jordan, who do not manage to get themselves on the road. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] That means: We need to move forward here at the resettlement. We must also move forward when it comes to the return agreements. We need clear and rapid solutions in order to bring it back quickly with countries where people who obviously do not have asylum grounds. Unfortunately, the European Union has not acted as quickly as it should in many areas. You know, we are all the European Union, but Austria too could go ahead. I hear these things over and over again from the ÖVP, but I notice nothing happens. What I would like to see here is that it is not in the case of lip confessions, but in these long-term solutions, that we should start with them and proceed accordingly with the federal states – because this is the subject of accommodation. I would like us to have more rational and long-term measures in the field of asylum policy in the future. Like anyone who comes to this House as a minister, you will receive a corresponding advance of confidence. I hope that you will benefit from it and that in the future we will not only try small and fast to find solutions with any unthinked measures, but that we will have long-term and good measures, so that we can tackle the challenge that undoubtedly exists.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10837	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10858	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! The appointment of a new member of the government – in this ministry certainly not an easy task, in the present form at all. I wish the new Minister much strength, especially that he listens to the speaker, please if that is possible. [[Federal Minister Sobotka talks to Federal Minister Schelling]] [[Abg. Rädler: Come on to the speech!]] I wish you a lot of strength for your actions and for your work. Mr Minister, we have had a major problem here today, especially with regard to refugee problems. It's a very difficult situation. There is a misdevelopment in this area. The laws and regulations have been repealed by this Federal Government, but also by the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is very, very important – even today already mentioned to the public – that internal security in our beautiful country Austria will be maintained, because otherwise our Republic will go wrong. The clubman of FPÖ has already said it today – and I have already mentioned it here from this point on – and Prime Minister Orbán has been strongly criticized by all states for complying with the laws and regulations. Mr Sobotka, this compliance with the laws and regulations we also want from you. I also have a wish. You know best yourself, Minister, the facts are such that our police also need appropriate protection, because the police are, of course, exposed to so many attacks. There's a need for better protection for our safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10903	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I wish the new Federal Minister of the Interior. Wolfgang Sobotkaden's best success for his work in the service and in the interest of the Republic of Austria. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] [[13:14:47]] 2. Point Second reading: Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 1470/A by Dr Johannes Jarolim, Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Christoph Hagen, colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG), the Federal Act on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975), the Constitutional Court Act 1953, the Criminal Procedural Code 1975 (StPO), the Federal Law on the Election of the National Council (National Council Election Regulations 1992 (NRWO) and the Federal Law on the Election of Members of the European Parliament (European Election Order (EUWO) (1081 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Justice Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971 (1082 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10961	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e10988	Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the loss of office under this item on the agenda. This concerns the question of when a politician, a politician after a criminal conviction, should lose the office. So far, the regulation has been relatively tame. Whoever was sentenced to a prison sentence of more than 12 months and had to go to prison has lost his office. Whoever was sentenced to a lower prison sentence or who only received a conditional prison sentence was allowed to hold his office. It is no wonder that this arrangement, which no one has understood, has been discussed in any case where a politician has stood in court. That is why it was an initiative by the Greens and the EIA to start party discussions on the strengthening of these provisions, because this question is simply about how it is called for confidence in democracy and in parliamentarianism, because citizens simply cannot understand that politicians who have been condemned can now vote through laws. I have to say that Mr Steinacker, the ÖVP's Judge-General, has tried to find a solution across the party's borders. But from our point of view I must say that she failed with this concern, for which she argued very committedly, because the partners were not present for a two-thirds majority. Our position was relatively clear: Whoever gets a warrant, who has to go to jail, is supposed to lose his office anyway. Second point: Whoever receives a conditional sentence is to lose his office if the term is more than six months old. This would have, as it were, excluded minor convictions for first-rate perpetrators. However, we have also said that there are certain crime groups that shake confidence in politics in such a way that any condemnation must end with a loss of office. You think of corruption, you think of re-acting, you think of abuse of office, you think of election fraud. These are all the offences that no one understands that a condemned politician is still sitting here in Parliament afterwards. We've been negotiating. The SPÖ was too keen on our proposal. The SPÖ said: No, we don't understand. We find, in a prison sentence of up to six months, that is, a prison sentence, one should be allowed to remain politicians. And in the event of a conditional prison sentence, well, let's say, the limit would be twelve months. What we see, there are certain offences, such as re-acting and corruption, where confidence is shaken. There should at least be a loss of office in the event of a prison sentence. - Okay. We weren't happy with that. Then the FPÖ came. The FPÖ has said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In the event of re-acting, in the event of abuse of office, any loss of office in the event of corruption: Not with us! We will then go along if, in the event of a imprisonment of more than six months and in the event of a conditional prison sentence of twelve months, the office is lost. – So, SPÖ and FPÖ quickly agreed. The ÖVP is then left with nothing else, so that there is a change at all that can be carried with a majority of two-thirds. But as a result, that means: If a politician is sentenced to a prison sentence and this prison sentence is less than six months old, he may continue to hold office. In other words, he can walk out of prison with footbands, freeway, walk into the high house and vote by law. Re-acting, corrupt, official abusers, election counterfeiters – all of them can continue to take their place here if the withdrawal culture does not work, because FPÖ and SPÖ do not want to understand that this is damaging to confidence in democracy and politics. Yeah, it's true. The withdrawal culture should be used in the past – no question. However, we are making laws here in the event that the withdrawal culture does not take hold and anyone believes that he can continue to sit here in Parliament despite a criminal conviction. What will be the result? – Any party with a minimum degree of propriety will be separated from such persons – with the result that we will then have “wild” Members sitting here who may be condemned for suffocation, re-acting or otherwise, or even if it becomes particularly bizarre, are in prison and the citizens outside lose respect for Parliament because they cannot understand it. You will still hear the most interesting examples of why this is not possible here at the speaker's desk. The FPÖ argues: Yes, once homosexuality was forbidden, and now one sees it differently, and such people should not have been in politics! – First of all: If the FPÖ provides an example in which homosexuals occur, then it is already unusual; if then a crime is argued, which has already been abolished, it becomes particularly bizarre, and this shows that this is extremely designed. If Mr Jarolim says – he will formulate it himself – he does not trust justice and does not rule out that it could act politically, then I must say first of all: In recent years, politicians have been more cautiously attacked by the judiciary. Where are the numerous charges against politicians – above all the politically motivated ones? - I don't see her. Secondly, Mr Jarolim,if [[Abg. Jarolim: Stay real!]] You have such concerns – you are a member of a government party – then you should become active! If you really believe here that justice would condemn politically motivated Members in order to lose their office, then you need urgent action and actually have to set up an initiative to remedy this abuse, if it really is. Ladies and gentlemen, as a judicial politician, I am a friend of resocialisation, but I doubt whether Parliament is the right place for the resocialisation of criminal politicians. That is why we will not agree. For any sham solutions that will certainly lead to a new debate in the next sentence, because no one understands, we are not at our disposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11043	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11065	Mr President. High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! As always, let me start with a quote: “The greatest honor one can do to a person is to trust him.” That is what German poet Matthias Claudius said, and I believe that exactly the right has the essential tasks to create trust and reliability. The aim of our request is quite clear: We want to make more stringent provisions for the loss of office and mandate of officials and delegates. The Austrian citizens – and rightly so – have a clear expectation of us, of their elected representatives. We were chosen to make Austria's future positive. The confidence of these citizens, our electorate, must not be disappointed. As part of the legislation, we must pay particular attention to respect for law and law, but also in particular as a model. One of the most important concerns of the judicial policy is therefore to further strengthen citizens' confidence in justice, in the independent judicial authorities. That's why I'm saying: With today's regulation, although it is not fully available, in which we have discussed it and which would have been imaginable for us, we create very clear rules. It will be understandable when and in what form an office or mandate is lost. It has needed several approaches, but today we are making a breakthrough and from my point of view an essential first step. Together with SPÖ, FPÖ and the Stronach team, we implement stricter regulations. This is a broad basis, and that is not a failure, but a broad common consensus, even though I would have been very right to find a solution in the negotiations with which all parties would have gone along. It is a good solution on a broad basis with clear consequences and in consideration of two aspects of democracy: on the one hand, the right of every citizen to be elected and elected, and on the other hand, the clear and comprehensible consequences of an independent judicial system in the context of an arbitrary condemnation. At a glance, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular the citizens at home, I would like to briefly explain the essential points, because the draft has been very successful, because we have considerably expanded the circle of those who, if necessary, lose an office or mandate: Not only representatives of the National Council, but also EU parliamentarians, parliamentarians, members of the Federal Government, members of the state governments, Court of Auditors or Volksanwälte are now subject to much more stringent conditions. This is therefore a uniform and strict standard for all top politicians, and that is very important to me. We have regulated the procedure. The final decision will always be taken by the Constitutional Court in the final effect, and the relevant requests shall be submitted by the Federal Assembly by the National Council, the Landday or, in the case of the Federal President, by the Federal Assembly, depending on who loses his office. The whole thing is designed in such a way that there will also be a much faster procedure in the future. The possibility of losing the passive right to vote from the outset was also regulated. We have provided the opportunity for the electoral authority to ask in advance whether there is an exclusion for a candidate due to a conviction of more than six months of absolute imprisonment or more than a year of imprisonment. I would also like to table an amendment tabled by Mr Jarolim, Mr Steinacker and Mr Hagen on the report of the Committee on Justice in 1081 of the Supplements. This very comprehensive amendment deals exclusively with legal improvements and editorial clarifications. I'm looking for this one to be distributed. Ladies and gentlemen, these negotiations, which we have held together, were important for democracy policy. I would like to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, for this very open discussion, also on the subject of individual crimes – Mr Steinhauser has already mentioned it, and others will do so after me. We have also discussed this intensively. We have jointly decided not to remove individual cases from the large criminal law catalogue. On this basis, we have reached the broad agreement. But I think it is essential that after so many years of discussion, we have succeeded in establishing a parliamentary initiative with the employees of the House – that is living parliamentaryism. Thank you all for your great willingness to talk and this really extraordinary conversation culture! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens have high expectations of us, of our offices. I believe that with the bill we are going to adopt today, we have managed a great step towards strengthening citizens' confidence in politics. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11141	The amendment was presented in its key points, namely with regard to the editorial amendments and the absence of Provisions. It is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11332	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11354	Mr President. What Mr Steinacker is right with is that the result here is a positive example of living parliamentaryism. In my opinion, Parliament could show more self-confidence in the future and try to find solutions in other areas as well. I believe that in principle the intention of this request is going in the right direction: It is important for politicians to feel the consequences when they are convicted and condemned accordingly. As politicians, we have a model function that is particularly important, and it is not only about our role as a model, it is also about the dignity of the house in which we work. Accordingly, I believe that the goal is a right one. The proposal, as it is now present, is a compromise. This includes, as I mean, positive things, such as the extension of the regime to members of the government or to politicians at national level. It is absolutely not understandable why there should be different rules. If there are appropriate arrangements in Austria for a loss of office and mandate, they should apply to all. What at least would have been questionable and what we have discussed is the question of whether there should be a possibility for someone to lose his mandate, because we also have to ask the question of how this should work, that someone who is in prison because of his condemnation, comes to the meetings, whether he is accompanied by the judicial guard or with footbands; I imagine this very exciting, how this should work accordingly. I understand, however, that there was no agreement here, that is also to accept. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's where you need to look at the Justice Enforcement Act a little bit as it goes!]] – Well, Mr Rosenkranz, you will explain to me afterwards how this works. I'm still annoyed. It's about what happens when you're more about it. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: At six months of imprisonment...!]] – No matter; Mr Rosenkranz, explain it to me afterwards. I think the essential point is – and this is also the reason why we will not agree – that we have not managed to bring these special crime groups in. I do not think it is understandable in any way that someone who is condemned by the fact that he has falsified a choice or even has taken money to pass a law is still sitting here in this House. That is absolutely not understandable. These are offences which are, in fact, linked to the work of a Member of Parliament, and we could have done much more. I would have thought this was very important. It is a pity that this is not inside, and that is also the reason why we will not finally agree, although I am clear that it is going in the right direction. In the end, however, it will have been too little. Mr Steinhauser has already said this: In the next sentence, we will have a debate that is precisely about the fact that suddenly someone who has falsified an election has taken money to pass a law can still sit here in the House. No one will understand that, and that is why we should definitely have gone on.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11404	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11425	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I should like to follow Mr Scherak's statement directly. It was a longer discussion, and I think we were all really trying to find a good compromise – and in my opinion we have also found it. As Mr Steinacker has already said: There is a massive expansion to various public areas – governments, various institutions, Landtage et cetera – and that is indeed a very big step. A debate has also been held on what can be fair, and I do not understand Mr Steinhauser's speech at all. I am not used to being completely misrepresented in such a way either. I think there are a few Members here in Parliament – probably also because of the long time I have already been a Member – who are as vehement as I am in the sense of the separation of violence before the justice system. I therefore understand this simply and simply not; I did not make these statements either. I just think it is important to continue the separation of violence and see that we find a solution of our own. I can only say to my party: It has not often happened that there have been criminal proceedings, but at least none of these have been here in Parliament and no longer in the group itself since the indictment of the charges; in that respect I have no too bad conscience either. In any case, we have addressed the civil service law, which, in my view, provides a good, disputed solution, and we have applied it analogously. From there the periods also come – six months absolutely, twelve months conditional. This is a reduction to half of what we had before, and I think that's a good solution. As it actually happens in detail when there are discussions – which political or moral component counts and which scale is set up there – this will of course be additionally regulated by each individual club or group. This will, of course, also have to be taken into account by the public in the context of the elections and the relevant decisions, as will be done after major announcements in individual cases. There is the parameter that applies to all of us: the voters, the voters, and that, I mean, is a very good calculation. That is why I think we have made a great deal of progress. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11467	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11489	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been explained by my previous speakers what it is about in detail, namely a change in the regulation of the loss of office for Members and, moreover, now also for a large number of people. I would like to make it clear once again why there is at all a regulation that goes beyond what Mr Steinhauser has called for, namely: Any conviction must lead to the loss of office. One must start by saying that there is a tension between what justice is doing and what we are doing here; that is also called violence separation. It has always been made quite clear by the creators of democracy that MEPs – and above all opposition representatives – need a certain degree of protection. This protection is reflected in the so-called immunity, but it is also reflected in the fact that it is said: Not every conviction automatically leads to a loss of office. First of all, there can be some mistakes in justice; no one is right before that. With all the respect I have before the Court of Justice, including before us, of course, to a very high degree, there are mistakes. Secondly, as the historical experience shows, it is possible that there are also politically motivated decisions, and there are also offences that are the crimes of opinion. On condition that, for example, a candidate would be sentenced to a month or more conditional punishment, he would be detained for half a year and could not take his election. This instrument could therefore be used to intervene very strongly in what the electorate wants. The voters may want to choose exactly these candidates, and they may think: I believe that what is now regarded as a criminal offence is, in fact, something like free expression of opinion. That is quite imaginable, and precisely against this background, in the face of this tension ratio, it is important that one withdraws a regulatory one. If you say six months of imprisonment and twelve months of penalty, you've found this middle path. To the culprits, because that sounds very nice: If one makes elections or abuses of office, one should no longer be allowed to sit here in the House, regardless of the size of the sentence. – But what does the victim of a sexual offence say? That says: Aha, my culprit is allowed to sit here, but if he's been misusing money or taking office, shouldn't he be sitting here?- Oh, my God! – No one understands that, so this division of the culprit groups is very delicate, you can only get by. That is why the system that is now being drawn up is much more sensible. Mr Steinhauser explained how absurd it is that the FPÖ cites the homosexuality paragraphs as an example. – I said only in the discussions: Please do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the world is turning on and that ratings are changing! It is not entirely unthinkable that someone, after being sentenced and perhaps even imprisoned, is sitting here in Parliament again. And I just said, Remember what some years ago would have been possible! There was a law that punished homosexuality. In this context, I said: I am sure that if a Member's condemnation had come, he would have been sitting here again, perhaps even as a pioneer of the opening, as a hero. I said that so that you could just think that the world is turning on and that values are changing. Perhaps things that we are regulating here today can be seen differently in a few years; that is not so unthinkable. It is always this thinking in here and now, which is very narrow; and I wanted to make that clear. Therefore, it must always be remembered that it is possible that there is a conviction that a political group – but that can affect everyone! – appreciates differently and therefore says: We are not going to let this Member fall forever, but he will come back. – So it's not that unthinkable. By the way, most of the time the public debate, the pressure that is being exerted, also regulates. If a person is condemned, each group will decide for itself: We cannot afford to do so; if the conviction is less than six months, he will not lose his office, but we will at least throw him out of the club. – So that’s the responsibility of every club anyway, and that’s why it has to be clarified again: In the end, it is the voter's decision to vote, and that's why you have to bring in a certain corrective one – and that, I think, we have done very decisively.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11537	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11558	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will do it briefly and save the speaking time a little for the next item on the agenda. Yes, politicians should be role models, and this is also expected by the officials. That is why we went along with this request. It is, as my colleagues have mentioned before, a compromise, it is a draft law that also bears my name, because I am quite clearly behind it. I think it's a real step in the right direction. As the colleague mentioned before me, we must see everything differentiated. It is not allowed to take a snapshot that would then lead to a speedy event legislation, but must consider it well and think it through well. I was already involved in this process in the last legislative period, so I know the history of this change. I believe that it is now a good compromise, that of a large majority, and that is why my group will vote in favour of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11591	I call Mr Brosz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11612	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This change is undoubtedly about moving something in one direction at a time, which is intended to reduce a great misunderstanding of the population over the current situation. No one understands the current situation – one year's stay in prison, the basic possibility of holding the mandate. The debate continued and resulted in the result that the understanding of the population in a half-year's stay in prison may seem to be twice as large – in view of the number relationships – which I dare to doubt. I would have expected that when Mr Steinhauser reported on the negotiations, there would be a great deal of discussion about possible approaches that go beyond that. When is it still a loss of office, even if you don't have to pay a fine? There, I thought it could be hooked. I assumed that the point that someone who is in prison due to a warrantive sentence can no longer be more national councillors should actually be undisputed, and was then relatively surprised that the debate was apparently different. In my view, this is a case that is completely unthinkable in practice: that someone who is sentenced to a warrantive sentence – I am not a lawyer – has also informed me so far that this does not happen in the case of small offences, that you will immediately receive an urgent sentence; there must have been something worse – to retain his mandate. We are also moving in a different direction on the subject of conditional punishment. So the corruption cases of Mr. Scheuch in Carinthia, for example, would not have led to the loss of his mandate, with the case that has been delivered, under the current regulation. We can already say that the understanding of this is likely to be small. But it's going to be much more interesting. We decide today to make a regulation – we do not, you! – that a prison sentence of up to six months apparently allows one to hold office. There have then been calls from the FPÖ Group, you can certainly not come with the footband. – Yes, you can certainly come with your foot shackle, because in that case it is clear that if you are here, even if you appear with your foot shackle, you can exercise your mandate. That's even more interesting, because then you probably couldn't intervene. There is, however, a provision in the Rules of Procedure which is quite original in the context; it stands far ahead, as already in § 2, on the loss of the mandate. I would like to say briefly: '§ 2 [loss of mandate] (1) A Member of Parliament will lose his mandate: 1. ... 2. if he has delayed entry into the National Council for 30 days” – we are not talking about it now –“ or 30 days without a valid reason recognised by the National Council (...) has not been avoided by the meetings of the National Council and has not followed the invitation of the President to appear or justify his absence within a further 30 days after the 30 days of the end of the 30-day period;” So to replicate the case now: Now someone's in prison, he's obviously not gonna be able to come and he'll have to tell the President or the President: I can't come because I'm in jail right now. Then the President would find out according to § 11 para. 4 GOG is a cause of medical emergency and in prison is not a medical emergency, so not a valid reason – I suppose the President would see it the same way – and it then has the task of asking the National Council whether this reason is valid. So it necessarily goes on with the variant: President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Ladies and gentlemen, we have a colleague who is in prison for just five months and cannot come – do you think that is a good reason for an excuse? Now let me ask you the question: What would be the outcome of this vote? Who would say: That's a good reason he/she doesn't need to come, because of five months we don't need to do it!Unknown term type: "%s".? So I don't recognize much approval now. That would probably mean, we assume, then, that we probably have a situation that you can do that right first, also necessarily. - Absurd! With regard to the question of compulsory prison sentences, I assume that we can solve this ourselves. It's less funny when it comes to the conditional punishments, because you don't sit there – you also come with a conditional sentence – or in case you have a foot shackle, and then we come back again, because there can be absolutely condemned, without this possibility being given, and then you have no form of intervention. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's wrong! The footband is...!]] – As wrong as this is, you can certainly explain that you only need to read the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You need to get a little clearer about the system!]] Mr Rosenkranz, in the Rules of Procedure, he was apologised at the sitting. Is he therefore apologised for the session when he marches in and talks with a foot shackle? The other is irrelevant to the Rules of Procedure. I don't know – you don't know yourself! You can come and speak here with a footcuff. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] I hope the population shares your opinion: half a year is better, five months is going on – I do not share it! I think the rule is that someone who sits in prison and can be a parallel MP or a member of the parliament is going to be a point of order, and I hope that a change will be made in a very short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11684	Mr Fichtinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11705	Mr President. High house! Those who have followed the remarks now see that we have everything If I may say so now, try to reach a compromise solution, do not come to a common green branch. It is probably undisputed, however, that MEPs are politically primarily responsible to voters. In certain legal cases – and we have already heard – the Constitutional Court has already had the opportunity to grant a Member the mandate, for example when the electability was lost due to a more than one year imprisonment. In all the discussions we have held on this subject: That is the law now in force. If someone was to be sentenced to nine months in which a mandate was held in the house, then this would not automatically result in the loss of office. - I'll give you that too. We are changing this regulation, we are adapting it. It has already been said that we are intensifying the regulation with a view to the loss of office in the course of a condemnation of more than six months of imprisonment or of a twelve-month term of imprisonment. This is a significant step in the direction of the existing regulations, but it is a significant one. If the desire for even more stringent regulations is expressed by some, this will lead to the question of what offences or crime groups that should be the case. It is a delicate question of balance between the fact that, first and foremost, a political responsibility with regard to the decision of voters, and not justice, should exist, who is sitting here in the House, and the question of the degree of unvalue of the act contrary to our legal system, which can result in a loss of mandate. We have discussed this widely in the Committee, the views have been clarified here – and we obviously do not come to a unanimous solution. However, we also believe that it makes little sense to take advantage of individual offences or criminal groups; on the one hand – and I am right for Mr Stefan – because such differentiation in the outcome could lead to even greater misunderstanding in the public than if it were not made, on the other hand, because judicial convictions should, in general, lead to consequences in the public debate. I say quite deliberately “should” because we have experienced in some examples in the past that it is not always too far away with the culture of withdrawal in the presence of a judicial judgment. We believe that the regulation before us to be a balanced and successful compromise in the outcome of the decision-making process, and we therefore call for broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11751	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11778	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I just got the promise from Klubobmann Lopatka that he is once nice – (except for) – to parentheses – because this is my farewell speech. It is now about the loss of office – but I have not lost my office, I have voluntarily given up it. With today's day, my time as a mandate in professional policy ends. The reactions I have been receiving from many people since this became known was that this is a very unusual step. Apparently there is not often or not that politicians say in the middle of it: Pass! I've done a lot, I've done a lot, I'm going on now, I'm doing something else now! Because it is my farewell speech, however, I would also like to take the time to welcome some people in particular: above all my son Jan, my partner Thomas, my colleagues Marlies, Stella, Anja, who cannot be there now, my companions Georg and Georg, who have accompanied me in the political years, and my very important companion Christian, who always stood by me with advice and deed; but of course also all the colleagues who sit here, and all who cannot sit here, my family, my friends and friends. [[towards gallery]] [[General acknowledgment]] In the 15 years – seven and a half years as a club director in Vienna and seven and a half years here in Parliament – I have experienced a lot, learned a lot, I can enjoy a lot, I can also be very angry. As a constitutional speaker, I have experienced a lot of constructive negotiations, and I think we have put a lot on our feet at this time too. In this context, I would like to remind you of the administrative jurisdiction that we have re-established. We have not succeeded in developing democracy; I am looking at my colleague Cap, with whom I had the pleasure of negotiating this together with the then Clubobmann head. I don't know if we were in the finish line at all, but we definitely didn't get it over the finish line. I wish my successor as a constitutional and democratic speaker, Albert Steinhauser, that he is still able to bring this to the finish during this period, because I consider it an important concern to give people the opportunity to participate beyond elections. [[General condolences.]] As part of the negotiations on this subject, however, there have also been unusual coalitions: with colleagues Stefan from the FPÖ – we are often not very agreed on other issues, but on this we agreed – and I think we have done our most possible thing to make the issue public – with colleagues Scherak from the NEOS. Unfortunately, it is still dependent on some rigid structure that it is implemented. But as much as I can promise, even if I'm no longer a politician: I'll continue to work for something to happen here. What was important to me in part, I will now continue in small, if you like. I have always worked as a mediator, as a supervisor, as an advisor, and will now continue to do so primarily, that is, to help people in crisis, in change situations, in that these crises and changes are going well for them, whether in private or professional. There may even be some people here in the room who might need that, but I may be the wrong person to be booked. I am convinced that so to speak, peace begins in the small, and therefore I have been active in families in inheritance matters for 20 years, in separation matters, in order to help people to cope well with these new challenges that come to them. In addition, in recent years I have discovered a new passion that you might have a little bit It will be surprising, that is, mourning; not least because I have also experienced a lot in this context in the context of my green activity. Grief, death – these are things that concern us all, which we have also been politically concerned with, which I have been politically concerned with, where there is still much to do. And I will do so, on the one hand, in the concrete support of grieving people – together with the trade union, on the other hand, I will be able to do so. In May a conference will take place, so whoever is interested in this subject is cordially invited – but also in the political field. I may also be sending you some proposal in the future, because I consider it important that this is not only considered as an individual topic, but that society is also considering how we deal with grief and mourning, and no matter why people mourn. Do they mourn because they have lost a close family because they had to leave their home, lost people on the run, and do not know how things continue because they have lost their job? They're all sad situations. Direct democracy – I have already suggested – I will, of course, remain true to the issue of participation beyond elections by supporting participation processes. There are two major events in the coming months, which I am not going to observe here in Parliament, but from the outside. One big event will take place on 22. It is the final election of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany; now one can stay in the male form, because there are only two male candidates. Mr President, I hope you will remain President – but here in this House! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I hope that you will be available to this House as President for the rest of the legislative period, as a third President. I don't think you're doing that bad. As President of the Federal Republic – and that will not be another surprise now – I wish someone else; not only because we agree more on content than I believe I am with you. However, I also believe that this agreement is only a part of election decisions, because I believe that in times that have already been addressed in the Government Declaration and which we are likely to discuss at the next item on the agenda, in times when people are uncertain, when graves pass through our country, through our society, this office is particularly important. And it is not only important to take clear positions, but above all to show unity, to have the ability to bring different positions under one roof and bring people back together. I don't know anyone who's better suited than Alexander Van der Bellen. I've seen him as a boss, so to speak; he was the president of the club when I came to the National Council. We were not in agreement on all points, but what I have always appreciated was that he admits if he doesn't yet think about something he has to think about – you all know it from various interviews – and then he goes with thought to everyone, regardless of whether they are of his opinion or not. The second major event is the European Football Championship in early July. I'll have more time to look at the games than you do, but that's if you want to, the bitter pill I have to swallow now. A small wormhead drop: I do not know how many of you know, there has been a genuine Panini pickerl exchange in Parliament for years, in which I have regularly participated as an active member, and I am leaving this Parliament now, although my issue is not yet full. But I hope that my colleagues from the various parties will continue to be well-weighted and will continue to collect for me, so it could be possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To say goodbye, let me say: I am the one who is here at the speaker's desk and speaking, all the many speeches I have made, but of course this would not be possible without the staff who work in the background, and I would like to mention now again Marlies Meyer, Anja Fellerer and Stella Jabloner, who have supported me in the club, our press department, of course, Robert Luznik as club director, but above all also the officials here in the house, the Parliament's management, with which I have experienced a lot of constructive situations. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now I would like to sing to you as the very last sentence – and most do not know, I am also a musician; we founded a band years ago; I actually wanted to sing always, but my son asked me to leave it alone, and I naturally follow his advice – a line of lyrics that I quoted at our concert, which we sang on the occasion of my farewell last week; Wolfgang Ambros may know some of you: "I think I'm going now because i was exactly When I stay longer Goes out of mama's face. And the wild i net!" In that sense, I wish you wouldn't get the shame out of you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e11917	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your work in the House and wish you all the best for your private, professional and artistic life course. [[General condolences.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I cannot see the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG), the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, the Constitutional Court Act and other laws, in 1081 of the Supplements. Hiezu, MEPs have given Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Mr Steinacker, Mr Hagen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. I would therefore like to begin by voting on the parts concerned by the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the amendment tabled above contain amendments to the Federal Constitutional Act and to the Rules of Procedure, I first make amendments within the meaning of § 89 para. 2 C 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Mr Steinacker, Mr Hagen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 1 to 5. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I also expressly note here the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Federal President's Election Act, including title and receipt in 1082 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:02:09]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (996 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Asylum Act 2005, the Foreign Police Act 2005 and the BFA Procedure Act (1097 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 1531/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Werner Amon, Mr MBA, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Law on border control and the BFA Procedures (1098, B.B.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1429/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gernot Darmann, colleagues on: Abuse asylum abuse – consistently push off (1099 d.a.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1528/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gernot Darmann, colleagues on urgent changes in asylum (1100 d.a.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 333/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of a sustainable and solidarity-based refugee policy in Europe (1101 D.B.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment 1522/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection (1104 final) 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Mr Christoph Hagen, colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e12129	We shall now proceed to points 4 to 12 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. These are reports from the Committee on Internal Affairs. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Darmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e12159	Mr President. Values Mr. Sobotka! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! On this point of the agenda of the Asylum Act on the one hand, but also on the other items on the agenda, I would like to point out, first of all, that, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you will not succeed in presenting these minimum changes in the field of asylum as an absolute intensification of asylum law, as you have tried to communicate via the media in recent weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] The fact is that we basically have a new mesh for applicable law here, because if you had made use of national and international regulations in recent months, you would have used them last year, the Austrian population would not at present have to deal with the massive problems of the outflow of modern international migration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is only up to you to act, it was only your fault not to have acted. Ladies and gentlemen, with this legislative matter you have shown one clear, black and white: They simply want to manage existing abuses better, and there you stand in complete contrast to the liberals, because we liberals say: The maladministrations are not better managed, but stopped. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not possible with the current rules. In fact, because of the well-known inactions in the foreign and asylum sector by the Austrian Federal Government, you simply needed a media hanger to distract you from many problems in Austria. We recall the right of access to the interests of the people across Austria in just a few weeks, the lack of border security throughout Austria, which actually deserves this name. [[Abg. Plessl:... Federal Law!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] We remember the state tow in the last autumn, which has so far brought about one million people to Austria and through Austria towards Germany. We remember the horrendous costs incurred by the government itself, which are now meeting the taxpayers. We are aware of the problem of education, which is linked to this missing immigration policy, of the labour market overload as well as of the danger to the security of our citizens, which I hope will not be denied by your side. Ladies and gentlemen, the internal order and public security must be maintained with national and international law. We do not need any forms of legislation that are in fact nothing but a placebo law. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and ÖVP, you all know that. You, when we discussed this in the Committee on the Interior, spoke on several occasions of this situation in Austria. This was very interesting because you had to admit with a small amount what we have always said for months, even years, for what we have pointed out, what we have warned of, and for this most of the Austrian people have been horrified as a hetzer by your political groups. They actually held there, literally: Austria is surrounded by safe third countries. – That’s right, yes, we would have liked to hear from you a few months ago. The limit of recording capacity is reached. – Yes, but the limit of acceptance has already been reached in September last year. The country would not recover the number from 2015, namely the 90 000 asylum applications. – This was also a quote from the Committee from the SPÖ and ÖVP series. That is also true, only the current requirements of the Faymann government are driving the Republic of Austria to return to 90,000 further asylum applications this year, and in the next few years there are hundreds of thousands more – and there is not even the family estate, which you now want to regulate very half-heartedly. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, this asylum law, as it is put into the room by you medially, is an absolute outrage. Rather, you should have considered the following questions: How do I create illegal migrants in Austria as soon as possible outside the country? And how do I manage to keep illegal migrants moving to Austria outside of the country? What did you do? – You have discussed how to continue to bring migrants to Austria on another path. But this does not change anything for the Austrian population. The problems remain the same, the burden on the population remains the same, across all policies, from the labour market to education to safety. That would have meant that you should have discussed and could have been your responsibility to live this way in politics as a people's representative! In the next item on the agenda, we will have two more requests from the Liberal Group to vote, in particular on the subject of a consistent deportation of economic migrants, and on the other hand we will call for specific measures against criminal asylum seekers or massive procedural cuts for rapid legal certainty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These would have been points which Mr and Mrs Österreicher would have expected from the government, from the government representatives, from the representatives of the government groups in the High House as legislative initiatives, if we wanted to be the master of current developments in Austria! Too much time has been wasted by your inactivity, and a placebo law will of course not improve these problems. It is therefore very easy for me to understand that there are very large discords in the ranks of the government groups on the present bill, on the whole amending amendment, because you yourself are not clear whether this is all right and, above all, useful, what is to be implemented here. Therefore, it would have been reasonable to meet the duty of the Freedom Party to finally clean up this flick work, not to bring new variants of this asylum law to the carpet every half a year – or as in the last weeks every few weeks – but to fundamentally re-enter the asylum system and the foreign world, to create a restart with very clear, consistent regulations within the meaning of our home country Austria. That would be a necessity that is still given. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No one's gonna stop you from risking this restart. But it would be important to admit, as a previous step, that this flicking work will not go on in the sense of our country. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e12247	I call Mr Amon. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e12268	Mr President. Mr Sobotka, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The request is distributed, I can explain it in the main guidelines: It has the possibility of the Federal Government's regulation on the content. It is about the submission of applications for international protection, the prevention of entry, rejection and rescheduling, and a number of changes in the asylum procedure. I would very much like to address my previous speaker, Mr Darmann, who once again spoke of a placebo law. That's remarkable, we've been bombarded with e-mails for weeks since this law was under discussion, there are most violent protests. All these rulers have apparently not read the law, for according to their statements there is nothing in it, it is a pure placebo law. I would like to say to you, Mr Darmann, that I am a little sorry, because the FPÖ would have a chance here, as one of its core topics, as you say, to participate in a little constructively. But where is your proposal for a law on this subject? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] They accuse us of having done a piece of work, because in recent years we have repeatedly put in place measures in the field of asylum and foreign law, and have made tougher efforts. You propose to us a piece of work, but where is your overall proposal on this subject? [[Abg. Darmann: Do you agree?]] [[Abg. Darmann: Zig applications!]] The only thing that brings you together is on and on a few motions for resolutions with perhaps popular headlines, but where is your amendment to this bill, Mr Darmann? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have not presented anything on the subject! What you're doing is a few toxic posters. I congratulate you very much, but where are your templates? Where is the hard core of work, Mr Darmann? Where is your parliamentary work, where do you present legislative initiatives, how would you be able to address the problem and this challenge? There is nothing coming, and that is really very disappointing, Mr Darmann. [[Abg. Darmann: Look at the fifty requests that lie in the committee and are postponed or not being dealt with by you!]] No one has said that this massive migration movement we have been experiencing for months is a simple thing. They also say that all the measures put forward by this Federal Government do not help. I would also like to oppose you, Mr Darmann. You know, my constituency includes the south-western Styria, the districts of Leibnitz, Deutschlandsberg and Voitsberg, and I can tell you that it is a huge difference between what happened a few weeks ago and today. I invite you, let's go to the field together, let's look at that, the differences are considerable! [[Abg. Darmann: Stop playing the field when other wounds are open!]] It is of course the merit of this federal government that it has said: We meet with the Balkans, we take action to end these migration movements on the Balkan route. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is not the theme!]] And of course this is a result which is a success of this federal government, Mr Darmann! Just to say, that's all nothing we do is a little too easy. [[Abg. Darmann:... Dublin and Schengen!]] The second thing I'd like to say to you: I would also like to oppose your constant accusation of a permanent breach of justice. [[Abg. Darmann: Please!]] There is no question that the Dublin procedure did not work, there we agree. But where we do not agree, it is that if someone comes from a Schengen neighbouring country, such as Slovenia, there is a free border crossing in itself. And the Federal Government – we all had to carry this along – at a time when capacity limits were easily reached when it was simply not acceptable, even in terms of quantity, no longer feasible, appropriate measures had to be taken. Mr Darmann, it would be slow at the time – I know it is still a little bit of an election campaign – to also bring FPÖ to make it constructively involved in the problem solution once. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We do that anyway!]] You are world champions in showing problems, wonderful, that's also fine and that's also your job as opposition party, but it would also be your job as opposition party to participate constructively in the problem solution. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We do that all the time!]] [[Abg. Darmann: You can agree to our requests!]] I would like to invite you very, very cordially, perhaps to put forward proposals on the legal innovation until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e12453	The overall amendment has been distributed to the Members, is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e13932	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e13953	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, From a “placebo” I really can’t discover anything in this novel. In recent years, we have already experienced some asylum law novels – some of which was also a sport of the then Minister of the Interior Fekter, so to speak in a monthly period of time – but what has actually been presented in the core is already the abolition of the right to asylum in Austria. It can't be said otherwise. [[Abg. Darmann: Only if you don't know each other!]] – No, you can determine that quite precisely if you read the law all over again. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Reading through in peace is one thing!]] Among the rulers of which Mr Amon spoke, who have expressed their opposition to this law in the last few days, was, among other things, the Cardinal, whom I also wanted to tell you. [[Deputies Darmann and Belakovich-Jenewein:Yes, yes!]] I do not think it appropriate to present these civil society, those citizens who have done a great deal in this area, who have also supported the Republic, who are concerned, as a result of these services. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: If the Greens even try the Cardinal...!]] I don't think so, because in one point we agree: In the last few months, Austria has actually done a lot about refugee care, refugee shelter and so on. There were also a lot of civil society people, but also the voluntary organizations, the police and the Ministry of the Interior, there is no question that many were involved. But I do not like to present now the objections of the people who are concerned that the right of asylum is completely removed as follows: The reigns are on the rise. - That's just ahead. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the content itself: It's an adventurous construction that you can rely on here. This is also true of the way that the Federal Government, in particular the head of the government, Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors, has taken in recent months. Last year the procedure was still very reasonable, if one has tried to push for a solution at European level. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Last year was not yet reasonable! What was so reasonable?]] There will only be a solution at European level, because the problem is not that people are on the border, but the problem is that the peace negotiations in Syria have again been dramatically under way. [[Abg. Darmann: You still believe this!]] [[Abg. Darmann: You're always talking only about Syrians!]] I also think that the Secretary-General of the United Nations will make it clear again tomorrow that the UN's refugee relief work is chronically underfinanced, and that it will also need significantly more funding in international work. You are now reducing the problem of closing the borders, and that is not a goal from our point of view, but you should address the problem a little more overall. [[Abg. Darmann: To be helped in the region!]] That means: Continue peace negotiations, including a clear dosage of the UNHCR – you were always against it. They were also always opposed to increasing development cooperation, there is no single request in Parliament on this subject that you have ever agreed to. That’s why it’s a bit – under quotation marks – “not quite honest”. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It was unanimous! But tell me what you want!]] At the heart of the law: The fiction is that we are in an emergency state, that is, the state's stock must be at risk – that is, in the explanatory remarks to the European Treaty, to the Union Treaty. With this fiction you have secondary rights of the European Union. It would be like this – I say it a little easier –: Many people who need a health care are in the Austrian hospitals. That's why you call the emergency stand and simply lock the hospitals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] – Yes, that’s exactly the same, that’s exactly the fiction you’re showing here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or there are too many children for kindergarten or folk school: Since there are too many, we call out the emergency and lock the folk school or kindergarten. This fiction is very adventurous. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – No, this is legally 100 percent waterproof! Take a look at what you actually decide! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this emergency regulation, you have completely removed the right of asylum. There is essentially no longer any right to an asylum procedure. I don't know how this will work in practice. On the border, police officers will have a brief conversation with the respective people seeking protection, whether they are children or young people or adults. Indeed, it is not true what has been reported in the media that minor unaccompanied refugees are excluded from the emergency regime. That's not true! They're only being treated preferably. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] This means that they are not allowed to be held for two weeks, but to be treated preferably. This means that they are preferably postponed because asylum proceedings are no longer being carried out at the border. Sorry, that's the truth! Take this seriously once in a while! This is the old shame in the Federal Government: One presents 100 intensifications, the SPÖ is under pressure, has a party-internal discussion. [[Abg. Darmann:... maybe never had?]] Then two minimal compensations, of which one cannot even say that one can even recognize them without a magnifying glass, are carried out. And then, de facto, one agrees to the resurgence of asylum law in Austria. That's what you're doing today, I'm sorry. The regulation – okay, yes, that can now be extended three times – applies only more than six months, can be extended three times, it is de facto a blank check for two years. Yes, that's the truth. What does that help? The real problem is the lifting of the Constitution, of fundamental rights. And I mean, Read the opinions received not only by the UNHCR or the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights, but more than 50 opinions. In almost all, there is one point: the violation of Union law and the federal constitution. This is said by the Richtervereinigung, the Austrian Lawyers' Association of Austrian Lawyers, but also by the City of Vienna. In its opinion, the city of Vienna clearly states that lack of commitment in many areas does not yet justify a call for an emergency. This is exactly my example: Lack of commitment to health care does not justify locking the hospitals. That's exactly what the city of Vienna says: This contradicts the issue of the principle of equality, Union law, et cetera, et cetera. - You must have read it all. You already assume a great responsibility with this decision today. I'm sure this law won't keep, I'm telling you. There will be people who will complain. The Constitutional Court will repeal parts of this law – this change of law to be precise. I don't know what that's necessary for. Let us together make an excuse at European level, instead of: Close borders, arches down, border bars down, then the problem is already solved. – This will not solve the problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us think a little European, also towards social democracy, and let us not do it, above all, on the back of those seeking protection! One last sentence: I've been very angry with the children and young people. Only to write in, the child's well-being must be taken into account, does not mean that a single youth or child on some border is in any form better. They're being pushed back, no matter if they have an accompaniment or not. As a mother of two children, I also tell you: I think that's really bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14151	Next, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14212	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I only briefly replicate the two opposition speakers – because I don't have the time – I wonder if anyone forgets that we also have the right to apply. You can't hide that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] – I just don't have the time to do this, but we can do it at a coffee. Talking with the policeman is valid right, please, and that for years. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: As a substitute for asylum procedures?]] - Things are always mixed. It is very difficult to try such a delicate, sensitive matter, to discuss it objectively. For example, it would have pleased me – and it has been for weeks – if one of them, Mrs. Klubobfrau, had stood up and said: What the Republic of Austria, whose citizens, NGOs and government organisations do, is excellent. [[Abg. Korun:... she just said!]] 24 EU countries do not do anything, and nobody says that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] We are constantly discussing what's bad with us. Austria is doing great, please! We're doing great. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It was a general government agreement at the asylum summit in January, where the Federal Government, countries, cities and local authorities agreed on a number of issues. If we are able to record this number of refugees here for four years – that is the Pact – we have actually supplied 2.5 percent of the Austrian population with the 90 000 people of last year and are the first to be cared for within the European Union. And for being first, Mrs. Glawischnig, we're just criticizing ourselves. This shows the tension that Mr Darmann has said, and what you have just said before me, I know. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: They make it easy!]] What are we doing? – We also try to solve this question and discuss it, because it does not help us, I know it all from the other side. But if you want to speak to me, it's normal for refugees to be accommodated in a bicycle stadium, in a football stadium, in a factory, then we have different views, because that's not a normal accommodation for me. This is an emergency situation that we do not want to experience together, because it is not in the interest of those people who expect our help. There we see our limits too, see what we can still afford. I think we have to be so fair. For months, our Federal Chancellor has tried to reach a European solution. I never said anything else: There is only one European solution. But if we wait for Europe – with all appreciation for the European Union – we wait a long time before we come to a solution. [[Abg. Korun: We are Europe!]] We must therefore prefer this and try to solve it nationally. I think we should first of all thank all those who have helped us so far, especially the NGOs – I do not want to get tired of stressing it over and over again – and the Austrian people, because there has been excellent, partly overhuman. I think that for this number of people we have done for the next four years, we do not need to generate a decent, humane service with all the means available to us. No one in Europe is doing this to us, but we ourselves are always talking badly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] So I think we have tried to put the rule of law in here, I really don't have the time now, everyone knows the law and also the regulatory authority. That we need border security in Schengen, which can only last six months, that the Council will have to decide, in effect, whether it goes further or not, that at the end of the day, when we make a regulation, the main committee of Parliament will be with us – we will now issue a review, I will make a request for it –: [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... that the clubman's representative has so little time to speak?- Oh, my God!]] So here you can't say that's all against the law, that's not the rule of law. This is not a matter of fact when we discuss it at this level! I would be happy if the European external borders were closed, the hotspots would work, because then we would save ourselves from doing something at the national border, no question at all. It's not like that! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Hätti wari!]] That is why we have the obligation to do so in the interests of our homeland and our citizens. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I say it again: It is decided nationally that, after six months, the Council will have to decide whether it is continuing, the main committee must decide together with the Federal Government, and we will carry out this text of the regulation. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... Opinion!]] So if you really say this is not a rule of law, or that is – I don't want to say at all – inhuman, what some of us are holding, then I invite you to think or make a proposal on how we can address this question in the interests of our state, our citizens. You are welcome to do so. But I also invite you to: Let us try to discuss this issue, where people are concerned, humanly and objectively, and not to constantly mix all legal sciences together.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14373	The motion for a resolution which has just been properly tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14438	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14459	Mr President. Federal Minister! ==References== At a special conference in Geneva in July 1951, the UN decided on the Geneva Convention on Refugees. The reason for this was that prior to the entry into force of the Geneva Convention, there were only intergovernmental treaties or unilateral declarations of intent, who took up how much in individual cases of refugees. The power of the Geneva Refugee Convention is its commitment to the comprehensive protection of refugees as such. Refugee is someone who had to flee from his homeland for reasons of well-founded fear, for reasons of race, religion, nationality, belonging to a certain social group or political attitude. At the time, six years after the atrocities of World War II, the world community found the right answer, in particular the lack of willingness to accept Jews persecuted by the National Socialists within Europe, and made it clear that every person who has to flee from his home country for the aforementioned reasons also has the opportunity to apply for asylum. What you want to do today is to de facto eliminate this fundamental right – a request for protection, an application for asylum – by a decision of the Federal Government, by means of a regulation. The right to remove laws by means of a regulation is called emergency law. Especially the Social Democrats should know when the last time such a ruling was in Austria, because it was between 1932 and 1934, and what came to us after that, should actually be in your memory. That is to say, it should be clear to you that it is never useful to rule by means of emergency regulations and that it is also not useful in the context of removing laws. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] In principle, the right of emergency regulation in Austria is granted only to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in agreement with the main committee on a proposal from the Federal Government. If you look more closely at what regulations the Federal President has passed and what laws he can take out, you can also see that he cannot eliminate constitutional law. But what you want to do here is exactly that. The right to apply for asylum is guaranteed by constitutional law in Austria. This right should not even be eliminated by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in a regulation. The Geneva Convention on Refugees is based on the fact that it is enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, namely the Austrian Constitutional Law, which the Constitutional Court has also stated accordingly. The Charter of Fundamental Rights with the Geneva Convention on Refugees regulates this very fundamental right to apply for asylum. Accordingly, because it also clearly regulates the Charter of Fundamental Rights, your proposal is clearly illegal in Europe. Accordingly, we will also make a complaint to the Commission, because Article 72 TFEU, which you provide in your explanatory statement, only provides that it is possible to derogate from European secondary law. However, they want to deviate from the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is European primary law, and allow people to apply for asylum. Now, with these last changes, you want to keep a little bit of the shadow and distract from it that it's massively worrying what you're doing here. They want small changes – emergency regulations should now be temporary, child welfare comes in, there should be faster procedures for particularly vulnerable persons – and they are deceiving that you are actually planning a massive attack on the rule of law. Finally, they want to have a proper review – and this has now come with the motion for a resolution – if an emergency regulation is to come. We will agree to this, as it makes sense to have a review. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But for two reasons, this is particularly pious: First of all, you wanted to bring this amendment to this Parliament with an amendment on the back door. The amendment is said to have been written by two Members. – I strongly doubt it, I am sure he comes from a ministry. They did not want to make an assessment of this and simply bring a fundamental right with an amendment on the back door to this Parliament, and they also decided to do so. The second, why that's so pious: You have received numerous reviews on this comprehensive amendment, which is just under 50, and you have obviously not taken it seriously. There were two relevant statements, which were positive, surprisingly from the ÖGB and from the Chamber of Workers, which I am very surprised at. Nevertheless, you have simply ignored almost everything expressed in these opinions. This doesn't surprise me for a number of reasons: First of all, because it was de facto impossible to get out of this Husch-Puff action that you have delivered, something more meaningful – that is understandable – and second, because it was also clear that all these statements were diametrically opposed to what you want to do here today. In this respect, it is no wonder that nothing has happened, since all those who have written statements are obviously worth something and worth a lot more. That's what you want to get out of here today. I would just like to quote from a few comments, so you can take a look at whether you still want to agree to this project today. The Evangelical Church says that in order to determine the danger of maintaining public order and protecting internal security, there must be appropriate legal criteria, and that is missing in this amendment that you make. The Austrian Bar Association rightly criticises that there has been a lack of time to review and says that the result of the fundamental Union admissibility of these special provisions, which you want to make, is not proven and not covered by the opinion of Obwexer and Funk. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights says that what you want to do here is a formal legal delegation. Mr Rädler, perhaps know You don't like this instrument of a formal delegation? – This is about the fact that the legislator cannot simply get rid of the tasks assigned to him by the Constitution and pass it on to the execution as it is here. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The deacony says that Article 72 TFEU, to which you refer, can rightly only cover secondary law, but not primary law, which is here. The UNHCR criticises that there will be no appeals against the non-examination of an asylum application and stresses that there is an obligation to give asylum seekers access to fair and effective procedures. Mr Rädler, I understand that fundamental rights, human rights and constitutional rights are clearly of no value to you, that is all right. That is really embarrassing and that is absurd! – Well, because that is obviously the case in the ÖVP. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Why do you understand?]] [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] The association of the Austrian judges also strongly criticises the short assessment period and says that without specifying the intended undetermined legal concepts, the power of the Federal Government to adopt a regulation here is clearly unconstitutional. It also writes that it was clearly overlooked that the Geneva Convention on Refugees contains, in part, identical provisions, such as those of secondary law, which you want to put out of force here, and Austria has also committed itself to comply with these rules by means of international standards outside of European law, and that the Geneva Convention on Refugees provides for appropriate protection. The asylum coordination says that, according to Article 18 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, there is a right to apply for asylum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Amnesty International says exactly the same thing: Article 18 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights implements the Geneva Convention on Refugees into European primary law and provides for a right to apply for asylum. Karl-Franzens-Universität Graz also notes that the subjective legal content of the concept of asylum includes at least the right to apply for asylum. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – I have to read it to you, there Obviously you have not read it and have not taken this review seriously in any way! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Mr Rädler! Have you read a single comment? Then you know why what you're planning is fundamental, illegal, illegal to human rights, illegal and illegal in Europe. [[Abg. Rädler: Obergscheiter!]] They still want to agree to this, and I am no longer surprised by the ÖVP, which once referred to Christian charity. [[Abg. Wheelers: NEOS are left!]] However, the fact that social democracy, which at some point put fundamental and human rights in its foreground, wants to agree and now tries to sacrifice basic fundamental human rights and human rights on the altar of populism, basically only leaves the ground. [[Abg. Rädler:... should make a party change immediately!]] What you're doing: You're doing the FPÖ business! They scare people outside as much as the FPÖ does. [[Abg. Wheelers: You split the land!]] This surprises me so much, since after last Sunday you should actually see that the population prefers to choose the forge rather than the blacksmith, in the case: President Hofer. [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo Hofer!]] At the latest since then, you should know that you will not proceed with this policy in any way. [[Abg. Wheeler: Left hetze!]] It is obviously still not clear to you that you are trying in an incredible way to eliminate the unlimited right to seek protection and to abolish a fundamental right. I'm wondering now and I'm afraid of what fundamental right you want to abolish next. But I would also like to say one thing: Whoever has such a obviously low awareness of history, who cannot remember why, after the Second World War, we have agreed on fundamental fundamental and human rights and we have agreed that we also respect these fundamental and human rights, who has this lack of awareness of history, will wake up in a few years and hope that all these fundamental and human rights that we have agreed on, which we have taken first place as citizens, that the rule of law that the constitution in Austria is no longer worth anything. [[Abg. Wheeler: Bright seer!]] The problem is just: Then, unfortunately, it will be much too late for God.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14658	Next, Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14679	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Scherak, show me where the Geneva Convention on Refugees says that I can choose my own country of asylum! This is also to the colleagues of the Greens: Where's that in there? - Nowhere! That is why we can forget all that you have said. Let's get to the point. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this law is a step in the right direction, which is why we shall vote in favour. But it is only a first step, it must follow further. I have already told you this in committee, Minister of State. I think it is a clear signal to the EU that we cannot be dealt with in such a way that we cannot be left in the rain, that we cannot simply open the doors in Greece and Italy and send them all to Austria in the light of what they see in Germany. I can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. And we want to carry this signal here so that a bar is pushed forward to him. I think the Minister has already said it anyway. There are very many who are economic refugees and not really in need of support, fleeing from war, ladies and gentlemen. There the economic interests – I mentioned this here two hours ago – are in the foreground. I am therefore not surprised that the Turkish EU minister, when he was visiting Parliament a week and a half ago – I was there during this discussion – said that there must be clear signals from the European Union and specifically from Austria and Germany to the economic refugees that they have no chance here. Ladies and gentlemen, this law sends a signal like this. That is why one will have to stand behind it clearly, even if it is not the final conclusion of wisdom. Of course, that's where steps have to be taken. The Turkish EU Minister has said something: When you set such signals, you withdraw the backbone from the tractors. And that's what it's all about, because if they don't succeed anymore, they won't be able to recruit people either. It is actively advertised in these countries by saying: We'll take you to a better world! – We know from many reports on television and in other media that people who go back because they do not find here the promised country they had expected to find here are very disappointed and call their real reasons why they came here. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be clear signals that economic flight is not worth it so that these people stay at home. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Vulneration is important in every respect, especially for the tractors who do their dirty business here. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must send a clear signal so that such tragedies do not repeat in Burgenland just a year ago! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Franz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present something to you. You should also know that there are also international law experts who have taken the seriousness of the situation. ==References== In January 2016, in the “New Vorarlberger Zeitung”, I read an interview with the international law professor and expert Michael Geistlinger, who clearly says: Most of them have no right to asylum. . He is very clearly speaking to these economic refugees and also to the situation where the asylum application in the first European country to enter is to be filed. I think this is a clear signal that we need to look more closely at who really has the right to asylum and who does not or who has the right to subsidiary protection and who does not. [[Call the Greens: Right to proceedings!]] Germany, too, is looking at this 48-hour model for the initial examination from Switzerland, which I have already called for several times. It is a question of determining clearly whether this is a case of economic flight or whether it has another reason for him to seek asylum. I have already told you in committee, Minister, that there is a good proposal from me, namely a motion for a resolution. He has been rejected here before, but I will nevertheless bring him in again, so that we can vote on it again: Motion for a resolution by Mr Christoph Hagen, colleagues on ‘48 hours of asylum procedure according to Swiss model’ The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to introduce, as far as possible, accelerated asylum procedures with a maximum duration of 48 hours – according to the Swiss model.” So if the Germans are already looking at this, we could do it. Mr Minister, I have already promised you today that you will receive several more tips and requests from us. Ladies and gentlemen will also bring in a few more. I also have one left in stock, but I would like to say a few words. And I was slightly scared: Yesterday I read online at the ORF in Burgenland: ‘Marginal controls: Deviation is difficult.” Ladies and gentlemen, it says: "Police expects more asylum applications. But: Whoever says he wants asylum in Austria or has filed an asylum application in Hungary must not be postponed or rejected at the border (...).” This is about an administrative court decision of last year. It is known how the states in Hungary were in the refugee camps at the time, how it looked out there and that a mass flight was under way. At the time, this judgment was passed. However, this has become obsolete, and I would expect, Minister, that you will come to the Administrative Court in order to lift these conditions again so that really only those on our border can apply for asylum, who really have a right to it. But, as I said, it would normally be no one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I shall now put forward a motion for a resolution. I am also referring to the fact that those who have no right to stay here, who have already submitted an asylum application here, but who have been rejected, and who have become guilty of being able to bring these people out of the country. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is about the fact that these people who have not been taken back by their own countries, because they are often criminals or something else, can be parked in these waiting camps until they are taken up by the home state. This would be an important step and a real signal for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, we have several agenda items here: I have a request under TOP 11 concerning the identification of the migration background in criminal statistics. I think that is also very necessary. There is the book of the German policeman Tania Kambouri, who said quite clearly: We cannot address the problems of failed integration – because many former foreigners and now migrants with German citizenship or, if we do so in Austria, Austrian citizenship are being penalised. However, this does not appear to have been properly integrated in criminal statistics. That distorts the picture. It then looks as if more Austrians are punishable, in reality it is people with migration backgrounds. [[Abg. Scherak: Austrian!]] You have to address that again. It would be good, therefore, to mention that. Under TOP 12 – my speaking time is slowly running away – there is still a request from me for the debate, namely on current refugee statistics for Austria. This is already happening in Slovenia, and this should be done in Austria, so that every Austrian citizen can see how many refugees we really have in Austria, how many of those who are not allowed to be here have already been identified and how many are still here. That would be a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14802	The three motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14938	Mr Sobotka spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e14959	High house! Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I should first like to thank you very much for the debate that has been debated in committee and now in plenary. It shows that Austria has changed in the last two years, from 2014 to today. This change, which has taken place in Austria, is actually a European change. We note what Europe has done, namely a secure Schengen external border, a solidarity action, that, when crises occur – we remember the financial crises of 2008 to 2012 – one carries together and distributes the burden. It has been shown that the year 2015 presented an enormous challenge for Austria, in which the preparatory measures for police and infrastructure could not be taken to the appropriate extent, because they were completely surprised, so that the rule of law was put to a serious test. Because of this fact, in recent months many have broken their heads about how to deal with it. There was a lot of diplomatic efforts. I will travel to Rome tomorrow and Friday to Germany to make clear what the challenges are in Austria. Undisputed and actually very clear by everyone is that the Austrian population, the police, politics and all those involved did a great deal in 2015 – in the sense of humanity, the commitment to the neighbour who needed our help in this emergency situation in a very special way. I think Austria can be very proud of that. At the same time, however, I think the question has been crystallized: Does Austria create everything in this form? This debate is not only taking place in Austria, but in almost all European countries, and everyone is trying to find a European solution. Nevertheless, we must always take note: It's not there to the extent that we'd like it to be. Of course, it would be best if we had a clear commitment to the conclusion that the ways in which the illegal or not really in conformity with the law are being concluded that there is only one regulated, corresponding to the law, of these particularly protective persons. Austria participated in the resettlement management. The European Union has committed itself to including more than 22,500 people under this reform programme; Austria has taken 1,900 of these refugees as a quota. Today we have also fulfilled 1,425, namely of a total of about 5,600. You see that Austria is also fulfilling its contribution in these international programmes. We are also at the front of the relocation programmes. Of course, this path would be much preferable to each of us. I was able to talk to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and explain our position yesterday, in particular as regards the amendment proposal, and not from that in the version of the amendment. On the one hand, he has vowed to help Austria greatly for what Austria has done, for his willingness to help, but he has also expressed his concern at what it is at the end of the day about the question of instance. To this end, our lawyers of the House were able to state very clearly that this right of asylum is a very, very individual right and remains that this human right is particularly important to us – no matter from which corner we come to this of our attitude, whether from a Christian, from a humanist or from another corner – and that it is very essential that this human right is not lifted. It is important to me to note: Asylum law is an individual right and as such will continue to exist in this episode. This is particularly supported by the amendments, namely by the professors Funk and Obwexer. The two have clearly stated that the measures put in place to limit the movement or to take account of the nature of the country’s interior structure are possible. According to the European Convention on Human Rights, there is also a right to security and freedom, including for our people who are here. And I think we're just as committed to it as we are to the whole. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This situation has led to the introduction, on the one hand, of the government template with which we introduce asylum on time, with which we bring the family estate. new rules with which, for the first time, we will also issue a clear ID card to the people who receive asylum rights, in order to ensure their identity clearly. And the amendment is about the need to take into account also the internal structure and to depend on it in the border management and border regime. It is a special provision and not an emergency regulation. Believe me, as a historian, I know exactly about the time of the First Republic; therefore, in this connex it is clear to me that a parliamentary process is never to be resolved. The fact that this special provision, which applies only two years, must be justified, that it must be adopted together every six months by the main committee and the government, is actually a very, very strict protection so that no abuse occurs. But one thing is clear: How can you offer these people work and work integration in the event of an unemployment of 10.5%, so that they can lead a secure life? How can you provide these people with apartments at this speed? How can you ensure the last of all essential integration into society for us? Many individual cases have been reported here. If it is important to accompany unaccompanied minors in leisure, but we have too few social workers, because they simply do not exist in the market, then there must be a possibility to regulate this move as well. I think these capacity limits are based on the possibilities of the Austrians. How border management works, I was able to justify that in the morning, and I was able to convince myself of it on site, ladies and gentlemen. It is a variety of measures that are also accepted by the people who come in and those who manage it. I say quite honestly to you that it is a very big challenge for the people who live on the border or, for example, in Traiskirchen, who are therefore really offensively confronted with this issue. I have great respect for these people and for those communities that are all in the process of de-escaling. There are different viewpoints, different ways of approaching the subject, no doubt, but we should not leave the common whole, namely to protect those who seek asylum from us, but above all to avoid the security interests of our compatriots. And to that – and only to that – this regulation and the legislative proposal apply.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15063	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Rosary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15085	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The asylum disaster has now to be dealt with here again in a legislative measure, one of which surprises me – I have looked at –: As a club, the SPÖ has an open, unannounced speaking time of a total of 40 minutes, and yet, as he has said, the President-in-Office of the political groups, Otto Pendl, has been given too little time to discuss this important issue exhaustively. Instead, he would rather invite you to discuss the whole thing at a coffee. At least you know where the priorities are. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Constitutional amendments, asylum amendments – there is no time here in the National Council, but with a coffee we can then discuss all this in all clarity and in all clarity and in all understanding in detail. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is the wrong access to such a complex and, above all, vital matter in this Republic! I would like to take a closer look at this as an example. This package now extends the duration of the asylum procedure to up to 15 months. To this end, the country of Vienna writes: ‘A longer period of procedure also leads to a longer stay in the basic supply. An extension of the procedures is a departure from the so far – also in the way. 15a agreement – defined strategy of the procedures to be accelerated and is Decidedly rejected.’ Vienna's state government. – Why? Maybe you pay, maybe you have too much money in the budget. I am already excited how our new finance councillor in Lower Austria, Johanna Mikl- Leitner, will be able to get out of the budget if it costs more in basic care. – So this is also a very interesting constellation. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Let us now come to the points that the previous speakers have always raised. You said: Yes, the European Union, the EU, we must work together on solutions, because we must finally show enforcement and so on. We have agreements with this European Union. We have the Dublin Convention, we have the Schengen Treaty. You always want the big solution. But what is actually happening at European level? - Nothing. And then Mr Pilz comes with the proposal that we Austrians should actually be a model, we should show something and do what all the other countries do not do about it: We're taking in even more refugees. And do you know what the consequence of this will be, according to my colleague Pilz? – These other countries – Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland – are ashamed of this. [[Abg. Darmann: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Bumm!]] - I'll tell you one thing: They're gonna laugh! They've been doing that for a long time, they're laughing at us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You will say: Finally, we found someone who's taking all of this away, and we don't have to do anything! We welcome our own solutions, since there are obviously representatives of the people who are elected for their own people, but there are some who are elected for all the peoples of the country. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] But, for example, Mrs Korun: It is already impatient with the European Union. We had the pleasure of having a discussion on the 14th. April 24th in ZiB, where I had to ask her how long she still has patience with the EU until finally this great common solution comes. She said: one month. We already have the 27th. April, almost two weeks are about, I'm excited when this solution will finally come into view, because I don't think it since the last few months. But I will certainly not forget to ask you after the end of the month when you will cross into the liberal club so that you will finally get the solutions you will not get from the EU. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You of the Greens also meant: We want to have another Europe with this refugee policy. – Yes, this other Europe, as you say, I would like to imagine once so that we know what another Europe looks like. I just know one thing, the Titanic looked different in the stack run than she now looks, and it was much better for me when it was stacking. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now a situation about which the population is rightly concerned. – I have now heard something about a subjective sense of security and an objective sense of security, and I think the objective feelings are just as interesting to me as the philosopher is about whether a fence is a fence. It is safe to discuss this, perhaps even with a coffee, once again. – You should take a closer look at the groups of perpetrators that exist with us. The Greens have condemned the rape at the Praterstern in Vienna and have accordingly said that there must be no violence against women in Austria. That's right. – I say to you, however: There must be no violence against men either. There must be no violence against children. There must be no violence at all in Austria, so this is a little too short again. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It is also important that there are no violent and violent perpetrators – so that when I speak to you, this is also contrary – I do not wish to have any violent perpetrators in Austria at all. And now we are faced with the situation that unfortunately we have many Austrians in God's hands who are going to be punishable – we have to deal with them ourselves – but we certainly do not need to import violence. We don't need that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If Mr. Pilz means fungus – where is he now?; my first admission already enlivened him to leave the plenary room; not bad, I thought him a little more stable in myself – when my colleague Pilz says: If we do create legal routes, then his conclusion is that through these legal routes these strong young men will no longer come to Austria. – They come legal or illegal because they want to come because they want it because they want it because they want to come to us. And no matter what legal or illegal route, they will use every route. What my colleague Pilz wants to tell us here, and what he wants to do here, is a social utopia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to these violence against women – only to be read again in newspaper articles today – there are conflicts due to ethnic group membership. This is the purpose of the definition that is now being made: ethnic confrontations. This may go a little bit into the folklore area, or whatever that should be – with knives, with samurai swords, with metal rods, with iron pipes and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals do not want this in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if we are already on these questions of the culprit: Have the 17-year-old Afghans – it should have been a good birth year in Afghanistan, since all 17 years old, I have already sent a question to the Federal Minister on this matter – had all these people, who have become destitute here, also their real ID documents with them? I'm interested in that, because otherwise, every question arises whether or not a criminal foreigner can be pushed off. [[Abg. Rädler: (on the just taking his seat, Abg. Now he's here!]] – Yes, now my colleague Pilz is thank God again. It is interesting whether these 17-year-old Afghans have real identification documents from their home countries, because they cannot otherwise be moved off. Because what would an Afghan message say? Mr Hagen has already pointed out when he said that we do not know whether this is a Pakistani or an Afghan. Since they could be anything, they don't take it back. That means there's only one thing here: Limits close! No one's allowed to come. And why not? – Because we are not obliged to do so internationally. That's what other states around us have to do! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can't think of something now either: Mr Scherak said it was just a trick that Traiskirchen was included in the statistics of Lower Austria. I have to tell you one thing: This is not a question of the trick, it is a question of geography. Traiskirchen is located in Lower Austria, and around Traiskirchen there are Lower Austrians and Lower Austrians whose houses are no longer worth any more. And you seem to want a similar situation to occur in other areas of Lower Austria. You seem to have too few people in Lower Austria, that's what you have to say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what it looks like. But if we already come to the topic of national borders, I am also interested in the self-understanding of the Republic of Austria. In the meantime it is true that above our state borders the one who has a vineyard that has a parish garden. In the meantime, these are the criteria whether or not we can protect a state border. Where will that still lead in this country? Do we give up our sovereignty and autonomy completely? This cannot really be true of a self-confident state, despite all international conventions such as Schengen and Dublin. One can see that this issue of asylum disaster and its handling naturally produces different opinions. The liberals have a clear opinion, the Greens have a clear opinion, the Neos have a clear opinion, in the SPÖ I am not so sure at the moment, in the ÖVP there is hope-making shimmer. But to say that there is a division! – No, there are only different opinions. Interestingly, those – and accuse the others – who do the most themselves speak of division. I must tell you where we stand: We stand for a constitutional and rule of law and against chaos and anarchy. That's our opinion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: This is also different every day! That's not consistent either!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I would like to give you your opinion, because we are going to all of them. And since I have heard this speech by Mrs Musiol, who is or is not a binding candidate, I must say one thing: Not binding are those who call 1.5 million people – for voters in Austria are people – stupid. [[Abg. Kogler: Right! Who's doing that?- Oh, my God!]] – But there are some, a SPÖ chief has done a lot. Of course, there are them, and they have said they are the “little educated ones. ” I can only tell you one thing: All those who believe here in the hall to have education and want to play it out must be careful that at the end not only imagination remains. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: You're right!]] Mr. Hagen... [[Abg. Steinhauser: With your superiority you are the first candidate!]] - No, I'm not the first candidate.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15297	I call Mr Rosenkranz.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15312	Mr Hagen spoke of an encounter in the tramway with a civil servant from the interior, who meant that Mr. Sobotka, the Federal Minister, is not as bad as everyone always does. I can only confirm this in itself, because we Lower Austrians In general, even if Mr Steinhauser does not want to believe, for example, this is a peculiarity. Since Niederösterreich was addressed, I can quote a small e-mail from 2002, which can also be read in the “standard”. There has once been an interior minister from which various emails have come to the public, and an e-mail reads: “Dear Minister, Dear Ernst, Bad Schönau is a beautiful tourist community and it should remain. I don’t want a vortex here until the LTW.” – Landtagswahl. – “The discussion is that the Pension Hofstätter (retired pension) is to take up refugees. I'm trying to disapprove of an assignment. Abg. NR Mag. Johanna Mikl-Leiter, CEO of the VP NÖ’. I want to translate this into the present time: Mr. Minister – I am saving the other, since the first name does not fit and we are not by You –, Lower Austria and Austria are beautiful countries, and they should remain. I don't want a whirlwind here, regardless of any choice. It is about the discussion that even more refugees are to come to Austria. I would ask you not to agree to an assignment. Abg. e.g. NR Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Landespartierobmann of the FPÖ Lower Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the debate on this law, we have also heard of this self-employed motion for a resolution. And now, in order to be clear, what criticism can be made of this law as a whole, what would have to be changed here: This regulation is being put in jeopardy with all the problems – should be – public order, security and so on. And now this government and the main committee cannot say on their own: This situation has occurred, we need it! No, the government parties have said that they have to review it again. – If it is so far, then stop ruling and order a few experts, that might even be cheaper!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15366	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15388	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I believe that what has been said by Mr Pendl, our security spokesperson Amon, and the Federal Minister on the content of the draft of the new asylum law to be discussed, is actually not much to add. We know exactly the following: This law, which is now under discussion and is then also passed, is one of the toughest laws in Europe at all. This brought us a lot of criticism; everyone reads newspapers, everyone knows what is being written. You know I'm a tourist. Our German guests, whom I talk to on weekends when I'm at home, say: Mr Obernosterer, now something is in motion again, for what your Austrian is doing, we can actually be grateful to Germans! With this approach by the Minister of the Interior – which is no longer here now – and the committee responsible, however, has also come into motion so that we can tackle the problem of asylum. This has not been known three or four years ago, and we know how long it has actually been working here. I believe that we do not even need to discuss whether Austria or the EIA are unsocial, because in order for the other European countries to fulfil what Austria has already fulfilled, they have to pick up a lot more. But each country can only fulfil as much social benefits as it is possible to provide them. In the opinion of the Greens on this law, which we know, I am quite clear that this is not our opinion. I also think I can say: You can only be social and give and help as long as you yourself are the Lord in the house – and what is private also applies to this state. You know what I mean by that. On this point of view of the liberals: I know what was discussed at the height of the debate, which was demanded by the liberals, which was demanded by the partyobmann, by the clubman. I'm reading to you now: "What we need is strict controls on our borders and, if necessary, their closure. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Right!]] If you have no asylum grounds, it must be clear that it will be promptly postponed (...). And we need a fixed absolute maximum number of asylum seekers, which we include, and no percentage quotas of numbers that are open to the top.” [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, right!]] This new asylum law includes that. [[Abg. Lugar: Who said that?- Oh, my God!]] – At the height of this discussion, Mr Klubobmann Strache, the party chairman of the Freeman Party, said that. Last year was also the talk of a popular desire. Do you know what part of this popular desire was and has always been proclaimed? – I took it out of the archive of the APA. [[Abg. Lugar: When did he say that?]] - Who said that? – Klubobmann Strache did this on 22 February. ==References== In August 2015, as well as in this popular desire, it was basically demanded what is contained in the new asylum law. That is why I would also like an opposition party to ask that, when it comes to the highest benefit of a republic, one should now, in order to be a model for a government party capable of being in this area in Europe and to implement only what was publicly discussed here half a year ago, which was not yet legally valid, now be cast into a law in which the ideas of the opposition parties have also been incorporated, also have the courage to agree now. She could also say that the government is progressing with a good example; and the Austrians know that asylum and the fears that people have about it are getting under control of this big problem. One knows that there must be no more what it has been last year; and for that it needs this law. Mr. Interior Minister, I haven't known you for so long, but your appearance and your two speeches today have not told you that you had nothing to do with this office and the Ministry of the Interior. This has shown that you know what hurts people and what they're afraid of. You've been dealing with this content for a long time, because otherwise it's not possible for someone to be content – and some of us can cut something off – to be inside the matter. [[Abg. Lugar: Go for a coffee with each other!]] I wish you all the best, I wish you much strength. I would like to say something about this. Stay as your call is: consistent, hard, even if it sometimes doesn't fit someone. All right, all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15495	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15522	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated guests at the gallery and also spectators who follow our debate! I would first like to thank the ÖVP for its revelation. I think it would not have been possible to say more clearly that one has degraded to the FPÖ's agents. Mr Obernosterer quoted sentences by Klubobmann Strache and said: Mr Klubobmann Strache said that in 2015, and we are now implementing it. Please, be so nice and praise us for implementing your policy now! – And then you wonder about the election outcome, for example, from last Sunday? Then you're wondering that people are going to the blacksmith and not to the blacksmith? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You are also wondering about the result!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] A little bit of principle and memory: For about 25 years, the Federal Governments, which have mostly heard of the names SPÖ and ÖVP – with a brief interruption in the black and blue era – are intensifying the asylum laws. For about 25 years, the asylum laws have been tightened almost half-yearly. Every time the Federal Government tightened it up, we were told: This is urgently necessary now, then asylum procedures are getting faster and more qualitative, the backpack of applications is being reduced, the rule of law remains, and everything will be very great and great. – Mr Rädler, I would like to say: [[Abg. Rädler: What do you mean, Mrs. Colleague?]] If that had brought something, it would have had to have done so in at least the last 24 years, because you have been doing the same for 25 years! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You do this with the result and with the success that you have arrived at the time of the abolition of asylum. The issue today is nothing less than the abolition of the right to a claim for asylum. [[Abg. Rädler: That's your interpretation!]] Thank you, Mr Rädler! I'm very glad you said: “This is your interpretation!” and read a few sentences from the opinion of the Association of Austrian Judges. I believe that the Austrian judges and their association are not exactly suspected of being very greenish or extremely left-wing. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well!]] For a shorter period of assessment, the judges write: “The procedure, as too often in recent years, is merely a much shorter one, or, as originally planned, no review procedure at all, is rejected and criticized in every detail. A serious review is not possible during the period granted’. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What does this have to do with the application now?]] – That’s what Austrian judges say. It goes further with: “The argument of the explanations that the Regulation – namely the emergency regulation, even if you do not want to call it that way, will be an emergency regulation – “only secondary Union law should be pushed back, is not comprehensible and irrelevant due to the imperative priority of application of primary and secondary Union law.” That is, the Austrian judges say that the Federal Government is here trying to introduce emergency regulation by a simple majority, and claims to be able to eliminate primary and secondary EU law. In addition to not allowing it to do so, because it is not legally possible, the government cannot also abolish primary EU law. That is why what the Federal Government is doing here is illegal, but nevertheless more irrelevant. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think you can say it more clearly. As several ÖVP and SPÖ colleagues have spoken here of the rule of law and they would hold it up and respect it: If you did, you would have had to pay attention to the 50 opinions, most of which were extremely critical – in several opinions – that is unlawful to the Union, that is unconstitutional, that is unconstitutional – if you really respect the rule of law, if this federal government is a matter for the rule of law, you would not have been allowed to bring in this government template or amendment as a whole! If the rule of law really means something to you, you must not accept the government's request for amendment. But so that no one can say afterwards that he or she did not know what he or she agreed to, we have requested a roll call vote. That is to say, all the freely elected mandates, all the mandates who are committed to the Constitution – and all of us 183 – have the opportunity to listen to their conscience and take seriously what SPÖ and ÖVP have said, namely: Rule of law, upholding the rule of law. All these Members will have to object to this draft. I would like to conclude with two quotations. The opinion of Amnesty International states: "The proposed legislation is massively and disproportionately interfering with fundamental rights of asylum seekers. The amendments proposed in this draft allow for the suspension of EU rules and de facto mean the abolition of asylum law. The (...) design plans to immediately construct an emergency that does not exist in reality.” The opinion of the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights: ‘An emergency law of the Federal Government, although in agreement with the main committee of the National Council, in a fundamental sensitive area in which it concerns the right to asylum or to asylum. The right to international protection is highly questionable from a democratic and rule-of-law point of view." Dear Ladies and gentlemen, please take your mandate seriously, take the Austrian Constitution seriously! Voices You do not agree with this proposal, otherwise you will undermine the right to asylum, and you will actually abolish the right to asylum! Please consider this again! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15624	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15645	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors! Mrs Korun, how does this fit together that you say: We have the strictest interpretations of the asylum law!, but in reality we have most asylum applications from all over Europe, which we now have, in Austria? - That doesn't fit in. [[Abg. Korun: That's what my previous speaker said!]] That doesn't fit in at all! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Rosenkranz, the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum was created to deal with asylum applications. We also know quite well that, when we created it, it was geared to 20,000 cases a year. We started with almost 700 staff at the time, 2014. In 2015, it was already almost 900 staff. But we know very well – and this is also the problem that we have here – that this is such a difficult matter that intervenes in so many other rights that it takes a very long time – say eight months – until a newly recruited staff member can judge such cases himself and independently. From the start to the completion of the training, eight months pass. This is simply the reason – because you have previously asked why we extend from six months to fifteen months –: We are so real political that we know that there has been a triple of asylum cases. [[Abg. Darmann: Why?]] - Because these 90 000 asylum cases are here! And they're working on it! – Or you just want to say: [[Abg. Darmann: Why are they there?]] Let's leave them, let's not work on them, we don't!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Darmann: You're here because you let her in!]] It is a rule of law, and because it is a rule of law, it is also intended to be properly dealt with there. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You are here because you have unlawfully admitted them!]] That's why it just takes longer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are making fun of the fact that we are now bringing in a self-employed motion for a resolution if you are enjoying it now, I do not know how you would like it to be. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Who's laughing?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's not funny! That's a fact!]] I don't really care either. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But do you want...?]] The fact is, however, that: Why do we want to introduce another review before this regulation? – This is what we want so that we can have the countries, the municipalities, the municipal government in the boat to ensure it by law, because we know that it is a delicate matter. So that we all have in the boat so that we don't discuss it again afterwards, I think it's good and positive that we do it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I can quote a lawyer, a constitutional lawyer. In his interview, Bernd-Christian Funk gave him the "Standard" on 20 June. April, said: “In criticism” – to this law – “something is going wrong. The legal argument, legal assessment and ideological comments are often mixed, as well as some polemics." This, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, should all of us leave our ears behind! And that, ladies and gentlemen, is why we debate this law so violently. If we now discuss – to return to Mrs Korun again – that we eliminate fundamental rights, that we eliminate asylum rights, that we eliminate European rights, then – and I very much appreciate you as a knowledger of this matter – you have certainly also read the explanations. You know exactly that the Basic Law of Germany corresponds roughly to what our federal constitution is in Austria, and that in the Basic Law of Germany there are possibilities for asylum seekers coming from a secure third country, including within Europe, to be rejected. I do not think that this constitutional law of Germany... [[Abg. Steinhauser: But that is constitutional law!]] – That is constitutional law in Germany, right! [[Abg. Steinhauser: Yes, right! And you make it simple by law...!]] Now in Austria – and I mean it by the example that constitutional law is – we are doing it quite simply so that we implement it in our regulation. That is why I do not assume that it is illegal, unconstitutional and illegal in the European Union. [[Abg. Steinhauser:... Regulation unconstitutional!]] Finally, I should like to quote from the remarks: ‘In summary, this means that Austria may derogate from the obligation to deal with all applications for international protection, in order to maintain public order and protect internal security, provided that compliance with fundamental international and Union rights and the principle of proportionality is fully respected. This means that those applications for international protection must at any rate be dealt with where the applicant would otherwise be threatened with breach of the fundamental rights.’ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] For this reason, I am convinced that there has been a very strong break in the head, how to approach this situation, and I will therefore agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15846	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15868	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! The sharp increase in protectionists leads to rising unemployment. It is expected that the 89 000 asylum applications made last year will give the majority the status of an asylum-seekers, or at least eligible for protection, and thus free access to the labour market! It is also highly likely that in the event of permanent migration pressure, crime will increase and the security situation will deteriorate. And: Interreligious and interethnic conflicts are very likely if the inflow continues. [[Abg. Loacker: There is no evidence...!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Open your eyes!]] There is a serious safety risk. Ladies and gentlemen! I know you don't want to hear that. It certainly seems familiar to you too, but not because we liberals have been preaching it for half a year, but because it is in the current bill in the explanations – that is why! Now I wonder: Has the Federal Government now gained these findings and drawn the right conclusions from them? And is it, above all, ready to take the appropriate measures? – Unfortunately, she has not fulfilled this hope! If Mr Amon complains about the fact that FPÖ is in principle against everything and does not intervene, he knows quite well that this is not the case and that we will also agree with the border control law, item 5, because we consider this measure to be reasonable. But one thing is clear: We do not need a law that contains provisions that are already clear in themselves! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You don't need to reinvent asylum on time. What we want is that you simply find yourself in the law in force, in the Geneva Refugee Convention, and after that, asylum can only be granted on time anyway! [[Abg. Amon: What about family descendants, for example those entitled to subsidiary protection?]] Well, you already have to understand that you've incubated this mess! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That it was simply not prepared to comply with existing law – namely EU law, the Schengen Treaties, Dublin agreements and, and – and to return to the core of asylum law. Then almost no one would have had the right to apply for asylum at all in Austria! That's the reason. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we reject this law. Of course, there are some provisions that we would like to support, but it is for the reason that it is nothing but an attempt, as has already been said, to cover the previous failure and give us a reason for perhaps being able to lead asylum applications from refugees not in Austria, but to take the other countries adjacent to it into responsibility. [[Abg. Amon: Why then the amendments?]] What has been infused with this, including in terms of security policy, Mr Lugar has already said today: that we are constantly being raped in the media, in which we can read reports that young and old women are harassed by young and old migrants, and, and so on. We don't need to talk about it, there's nothing to explain! Mr. Vice-Chancellor has already said one thing: One must finally break the expectation. - Yeah, I'm just giving him the right thing. The expectation must be broken, on the one hand, with the states that believe they could continue, even in the future, to send the migrants or the apparent asylum seekers to us so that we can do something. It is clearly seen in Italy, where the quota is 1.5, as opposed to Austria with a recording rate of more than 10 percent. This is not going to happen, Mr. Vice-Chancellor is right. But we must also make it clear to the potential asylum seekers that no one can stay in Austria if he tries to get illegally into our social system! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where the train is actually going, you can see a question answer to Kolle-gin Belakovich-Jenewein. It asked how many asylum seekers were forced to return last year. You see and marvel: Of the 90 000 asylum seekers in total, 3 278 people were forced back! And 5 000 more, with financial support from Austria, have voluntarily left the country. One more thing: If you count on the one you get back from other countries, for example from Germany – in January alone there were 3,987 people – then you can calculate where we will walk this year and in the next years. All these forecasts you make are correct: that crime will rise and that we will have interethnic conflicts. That's why I'm telling you: Do you insist on complying with existing laws internationally, in Europe and itself? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll get you together for a moment. Today, the National Council is supposed to provide the sham medicine for the Federal Government to heal the patient, but I am now telling you one thing: This placebo concept will show no effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e15980	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16004	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of this amendment today, my colleague Christoph Hagen has already justified this in his speech. I would also like to say at this point that for us it is still only a first step in the right direction, which many more need to follow. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If one considers that a regulation has been written in the form of possibility here, one can already call it toothless. The problems are obvious, the problems are there, and, above all, the ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the NEOS are happy to close their eyes to these problems and reality. They also close their eyes to the fears of the population, they do not go into it at all, and they leave the population here almost outside. [[Abg. Pendl: Exactly!]] If you want to take in so many refugees and open borders and people come, come and come, if you want to make a welcome policy, I will make a proposal to you: Open all your apartments, your homes, and take in so many refugees until you probably no longer have a place in your home or in your apartment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a number of points have already been raised: There are massive problems, and we're still here at the beginning. We're going to have a lot more to do with it. We now have a new Interior Minister, and I followed your interview in the “ZiB 2” yesterday. [[towards Federal Minister Sobotka]] I was surprised to see that you have admitted that crime has also increased among asylum seekers in the past. This is also a point that needs to be addressed here, which is obvious and which also needs to be dealt with. My colleague Hagen has already made a number of requests in his speech, because it always says – and it has been mentioned again today in the debate – that there are no requests from the opposition parties, no proposals are made and no cetera. He has submitted applications, and I too will make a request here, namely a DNA fingerprint. If you follow the media, and I hope the Greens and the NEOS will do so, you will read the following – and I would like to give you just a few excerpts from the recent past: ‘Student in train of young refugee’; ‘Student raped by young asylum seekers’; “Mutig helpers brutally beaten by sex offenders” and in Vienna swimming pools there is a 10-point program for more safety. Where are we?- Oh, my God! Do we not already have the emergency, ladies and gentlemen? How many more have to be raped, what still has to happen, that something is finally happening here and that perhaps the ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the NEOS come to think about it? [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Franz.]] I would like to return to my request which I have already announced. This is about taking a DNA fingerprint. The current difficulty in the area of classical fingerprinting in asylum seekers is that when people have already been pushed off and when they want to come back, they eat the fingertips or rip them with knives, because they can no longer be identified with classical fingerprints. With this proposal of the DNA fingerprint, these persons could be identified and, even if a criminal act is committed, a rape, a sexual assault et cetera, could be easily identified and even made hard. They could be determined. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to ask that this request be accepted, and I would like to end by sending a few more words to the new Minister for the Interior. Mr Sobotka, you have taken over a large, very important place and also a great responsibility. I would also like to address the arms law, which also falls within your area, and I hope that you will be more mobile in this area than your predecessor. With an intensification of the arms law, we would go into emptiness here. We know that criminals and terrorists do not adhere to laws, armed self-protection is the best solution against terrorists and other criminals. My demand: Self-defence must become a reason for need and must justify a right to a weapon passport. This has to be true for every unspoiled citizen without official discretion, and I hope you will be able to approach this demand, Mr President-in-Office. We will soon be bringing initiatives back in this direction, and we will remain on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16086	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16157	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16178	Ladies and gentlemen! So far, in our democracy and in our constitution, there has been a simple principle: Laws are passed by Parliament, laws are amended by Parliament. The government may adopt regulations on the basis of laws, but it cannot: It cannot change laws through regulations. This is different with today's legislative decision, because emergency law – for example in the Austrian Constitution – empowers the Federal Government to amend laws that are Parliament's cause. This is a dam break, which is unprecedented, and which devastates our constitution in the structure as we know it, I would like to say almost because it is a fundamental principle that the legislative system is responsible for laws and not the Austrian Federal Government. This is a case of sin that opens the Pandora’s canals – as is said in the historical-rian sage – and the further examples will follow. What if we're in an economic crisis? What then speaks against an emergency law that may suspend workers' rights, dear social democracy-crats? – This can be supported by the same argumentation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] A state of emergency, the guarantee of procedure, as we know it from our constitutions, is all possible in this logic, which Austrian social democracy today includes. That this is a unique case of sin, which is highly problematic in the rule of law, says almost every statement in the review process: The Bar Association: “ Minimum guarantees of modern rule of law for a whole group of people will be suspended. ” The judge's association: “This draft makes it difficult for access to law, i.e. the central right of a rule of law, if not restricted.” Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights: “... is extremely worrying from a democratic and rule-of-law point of view.” I could read more comments; You know that and you ignore it. One thing to be said to you: Whoever starts screwing the rule of law, he also screws on democracy. The rule of law is the other side of democracy. [[Abg. Wheeler: You know that very well!]] If you do not take the rule of law seriously, then do not take democracy seriously. Mr Lueger – which I really appreciate very much; we have always held discussions together on many points – has basically made almost a confession at the speaker's desk about how an Austrian politician holds the Constitution. She says, in German fundamental law, in the basic law, the possibility is set out that asylum law is restricted, and she says then that it can't be wrong if we do the same in a regulation. – This shows exactly how little sensitivity there is. A regulation is just unconstitutional when it provides for something that does not cover the Constitution, and that is exactly your problem, that you miss any sensitivity. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lueger and Mr Wenninger.]] Second point: 100 000 people have come to Austria. This is a great challenge, that is not a question, and I have said that again and again, and many others have said that. To integrate 100,000 people into Austria is the great task that is now waiting for us. But I do not understand why, with this law and asylum on time, you do exactly the opposite. After three years, asylum status could be lost. [[Abg. Nice to meet you.]] In reality, the whole makes it difficult for a group of Syrian refugees who cannot go back to Syria with a high probability of 99.9 percent in three years, only integration. Everyone knows: A company is not a young Syrian or does not establish a young Syrian, if it is not clear that this person is still available to the company in three years after it has been trained or recruited. The industrial association has brought this to the fore in the review procedure. She says: ‘We (...) must find, with regret, that our claim has not been complied with. We would therefore like to refer again to our opinion (...) where we have already explained that we reject asylum on time for labour market and integration policy reasons.” – The Austrian companies must find planning. - Quote. That's where they got it to the point. They make integration difficult, and integration is the great challenge for the refugees themselves, but also for the people who live here. If we want to do this, then it is time to create asylum that makes integration more difficult, difficult and dangerous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16242	The next item is Mr Ertlschweiger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16263	Madam President. Values Mr. Sobotka! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Steinhauser, I just wanted to ask you: Which planets do you actually live on? Are you still here in reality, or have you, like Mr Scherak, already landed in another sphere? [[Abg. Steinhauser: I'm always here...!]] I believe that, ladies and gentlemen, Austria really does not have to hide humanity in the refugee question, certainly not. In contrast to many other European countries, we have until now behaved very secularly and in solidarity on the issue of refugees. No one can and will deny this in this context, but I also tell you quite openly and honestly: We must not exaggerate the Austrian population. Everyone knows that we have come across our borders on the refugee issue, in many areas. Austria finally needs a breathing break, and this asylum law helps us to get this breathing break. These are tough measures, we are well aware of that, and this has been articulated many times today: Asylum on time, restrictions on family succession, the capacity-oriented ceiling and the so-called emergency regulation. But these are all logical measures by the government to reduce the unbridled flow of refugees to Austria, because, of course, the labour market is heavily burdened by this massive immigration, it is massively burdened by the social system – the key to minimum security. These are facts, ladies and gentlemen, and I would therefore ask you to finally wake up and face up to reality. It's not just doctors and engineers coming to us. On the contrary: First and foremost, unqualified people come to us. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We knew that already months ago!]] That is the reality, and these people need to integrate it. In addition to the labour market and the social system, the education and school system is already completely overburdened and overburdened with integration. There is no human right to a life in Germany, Austria or Sweden, but there is a right of the Austrian people to protect the quality of life and internal security, and this asylum law contributes to it. As European solidarity has been addressed today: When the Latvian Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe Nils Muižnieks Austria criticises for the planned changes to asylum law in the media and says that a fair and individual procedure is no longer guaranteed and will be undermined and a European solution is necessary, then he is perfectly right. It is true that a European solution is necessary, but: Where is this European solution? – As long as this European solution does not exist, Austria must help itself. The Commissioner himself comes from Latvia, where 70 percent of the population generally reject refugees, where the construction of a three-metre high barbed wire fence has begun over 92 kilometres to protect themselves from illegal immigration. Latvia intends to take up 776 refugees over the next two years. In 2015, after the EU Statistical Office Eurostat, Latvia decided positively 30 asylum applications, Austria 17 750. Commissioner, European solidarity is different! Austria cannot take up 90,000 refugees again, as last year. This has nothing to do with party politics, it is house sense, ladies and gentlemen. We are already heading for a battle of cultures, keyword: no hand pressure for teachers or the questioning of Christian values, holidays and rides. Our country will not be as it once was in the future, of which we can say goodbye. This is a huge challenge for politics, but the direction of the ÖVP is right. The closure of the Balkan route on the initiative of the ÖVP and the start of border security took appropriate measures, which also met with broad support from the population. Measures that have shown that the EIA can also implement a problem-solving policy within the EU. As long as the process of securing the EU's external border is not completed, Austria must keep the border under national control, it will not be different. I've already mentioned it today: Whether labour market, social care, kindergartens, school supply, housing, it already needs a human as well as financial power act of the Republic to integrate the Zig thousands of refugees. That's why I'm appealing to you: Please do not agree more than we can vote. Let us go through the refugee question and rather solve the problems we already have. Let's take a breath to Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16313	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16334	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda items 4 to 12: These points are all related to the subject of asylum, including in different forms, and to this a law to appear. Asylum, ladies and gentlemen, is and remains protected on time and is not unlimited, Mr Steinhauser, that is so. I am in favour of the need to help those who have been persecuted politically, I have said that here, from this point on, many times. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important and right that Austria has often provided help, no matter what crisis. However, I also insist that Austria and a few countries in the EU, such as Germany and Sweden, cannot save the whole world. If this Federal Government of Red and Black, and above all this EU, which has totally failed in the refugee question, had complied with existing provisions and laws, we would not need this law today. This year, the government itself expects 2 billion € of refugee costs, 1.6 billion of them for social benefits, and in future Austria will certainly no longer be able to afford this form. Since I'm seeing the clubman of the ÖVP who told me the last time: Yes, now we have the culprit who has triggered this refugee problem. Mr. Obama was in Germany, Mr. Klubobmann, and he made a wonderful statement – I have heard it exactly –: He said that Europe should do much more on the refugee issue. I tell him to look at who is the main blame for this massive refugee problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16374	The next item is the report by Mr Schabhüttl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16395	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! Today's change to the asylum law, this novel, is under the heading for me: Maintain order and security. Let me take a look back: Last year, 2015, we recorded 90,000 refugees, which are, in turn, the population, most throughout Europe. We have used massively for the European solution, for the border security of the Schengen border, for the hotspots, and we are still committed to it massively, but – and now the big but: We must note that this European solution is not in sight. The flow of refugees will not end in the future, and we cannot record 90 000 refugees again in one year. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And what does the Federal Chancellor do?]] We must take national measures so that we do not endanger social peace in Austria. On the basis of this, there has been this asylum summit in which, together with the federal government and the municipalities, a indicative figure of 37 500 has been set for this year. And if we want to take this directive seriously and comply with it, we also need the appropriate framework conditions to do so. I say quite openly: Yes, this law is intended to make it difficult and to reduce access and migration to Austria. Yes, I also say that openly, it should also be made more difficult for family succession or made possible only after certain criteria have been met. And yes, in the event that order and security are in danger, because the flow of refugees is too large or this is to be expected, there should be special provisions, according to which the Federal Government can decide by regulation in agreement with the main committee of the National Council. I am convinced that this is responsible and good access. Why do I say that? - Because we can't pick up all those who come to us. Interestingly, even Mrs Korun said this in the Committee on the Interior: We can't take everyone! – Because we do not have for all apartments, for all public schools or kindergartens and even not for all jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] And because you're talking about conscience: We all have a conscience here, and it would be irresponsible if we didn't do anything about it. The responsible action with the version of this decision, namely with this change in law, we are primarily guilty of our people, in the course of which our security authorities, the police, the federal army implementing these laws, and not least of those who come to us to Austria and their integration.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16438	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16459	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Also on asylum: Austria's policy on asylum will continue to work on a sustainable basis during the current year and will increasingly burden taxpayers. It should now be noted that there is a resurgence of the tow routes over Hungary. It is therefore essential to install appropriate border protection. It is also essential to carry out such data acquisitions within the framework of this border security and to carry out the data of an appropriate examination. For asylum seekers already in the country, a targeted reduction in the procedure with legal certainty is essential. Unfortunately, it is also important to note that asylum seekers and foreigners are becoming increasingly criminal. Those asylum seekers and foreigners shall immediately be sentenced or postponed after the payment of appropriate penalties. To be questioned is the activity of private organisations which lead people on the run with incorrect information on adventurous paths towards Austria. This process is the same as towing. The Ministry of the Interior, in the area of border security, shall mainly ensure the management of asylum by the Ministry of Defence in the field of assistance. As a result of the increasing rate of crime in relation to illegal immigration and asylum applications, crime statistics must also be adapted. Asylum seekers and illegal foreigners must be listed in these statistics. The population has a right to protection and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16503	The next item is Mrs Dietrich's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16524	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today a novel on the asylum law with a possible emergency regulation. I tell you, we will support this because this – our colleague Martina Schenk has already pointed out – the right step is in the right direction, although the previous way, as it is behind us, has not looked as we had imagined. We have had an interior minister who has fought like a lion against her own political group, against the government parties, who, in the end, managed to at least indicate the right direction. That is why, from my side, I fully respect the Minister of the Interior for Foreign Affairs. I wish her all the best for the future in Lower Austria! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! It's a difficult subject because it broke up graves. On the one hand, there are mandates who believe that we can provide, integrate and integrate anyone who wants to come to us – everything is possible. And on the other hand, there are realists who say that this is simply not possible in view of the number of 60 million on the go. In this discussion, we are in this conflict. This is not about one condemning the other, but about our understanding of each other and that, as elected mandates of the Austrians, we also assume this responsibility to the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Just since the last election, we have again more tombs, tombs that are torn up when discussing this issue. At this point, I really want to ask everyone to deal with each other in moderation and not put hatred and hatred in the foreground, but respect for each other, respect for the position of the individual, for there are not only black and white, but there are many grey tones in life. And I don't think any single person in here doesn't care if he sees refugee children when he sees refugee families and everyone wants to help, but the framework of opportunities is more limited if we don't want to endanger our own population if we don't want to risk our prosperity. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's why I'm trying again to see what's possible. We will take this step. I also noticed that in this whole debate a fundamental right of democracy, namely freedom of expression, will be cut in many areas. Let's look at Germany, where, for example, Jan Böhmermann wrote a malignancy poem, whose contents I don't like, but that the German Chancellor then immediately apologizes to President Erdoğan and says: For heaven's sake, what's this scoffing critic doing?!, I think that's absolutely covered! Such an approach threatens freedom of expression in Europe. We must not sacrifice them at the Turkish altar! Ladies and gentlemen! It is impossible for us to endanger this fundamental right of freedom of expression, which has been written in the Constitution and on which artistic freedom, freedom of religion and many others are based, through our conduct, and only because one believes that suddenly the Turkish President has to be allowed to live – someone who represents a country where women's rights are not respected, where there is no religious freedom, where Kurds are persecuted, and much more – only because one needs it as a cover so that one can cover the EU's own failure in the field of Schengen. If the European Union is unable to finally close the borders itself, take responsibility for its people, then I think the future is more than at risk. Ladies and gentlemen! We have many problems in this area. We have problems that we can only solve together and with mutual understanding. It does not help anyone to polarize, to hit each other rhetorically, but we need to find a solution for the Austrian population, because the Austrian people are the people we represent here and who should be at our heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16614	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16636	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Visitors at the gallery! I can particularly welcome the Catholic couleur students of Austria Vienna here in Parliament today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The current situation makes it necessary for us to make changes to the Asylum Act in order to avoid the dangers and not endanger internal security in Austria. The fact is, Austria has done its homework with regard to refugee policy. We have received most refugees after Sweden, and more than one percent of the population is proof that Austria has done its homework there. The asylum issue has been stressed many times today, a European problem and can only be solved jointly. From my point of view, there are three things that need to be done: firstly, a system that ensures the security of the population; secondly, a strategy that can be taken seriously and where measures can be taken in the short term; and thirdly, I believe, solidarity is the most important thing, because the Europe project is on the test, and we need a coordinated approach by the European states. The topic of Brenner has already been mentioned several times today, it is an extremely sensitive and emotional issue. The Brenner is at the heart of the European refugee policy: Many talk with, many interfere, many give advice. The fact is, if we don't do anything, then the others don't wake up. We must therefore take action. Austria as a small country does not look, but becomes active itself. There are ongoing discussions and political exchange. I would particularly like to thank our Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs and our new Federal Minister, Sobotka, for having taken a picture in Tyrol directly on site immediately after entering the service, so that, I think, he can estimate the current situation as well. I have a mission today. The municipality of Gries am Brenner – one is always talking only about the Brenner, but it is also about the municipality of Gries am Brenner – and its mayor Karl Mühlsteiger, a personal friend of mine, who is at the heart of the refugee policy every day, gave me: The faster and the better border security is installed, the safer it is for its people, for the citizens of Gries on the Brenner. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] There's every day offenses. And I think it's important that we get people worried and scared. It pays extraordinary respect and recognition to the security forces. Just now at the demo, only the negative pictures were transported again, but without security forces and their commitment, we would clearly fail here. There is no new limit on the burner, an orderly border management is set up. It will take care of the serious situation. Today more than 5,000 illegals have been attacked. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] As long as the EU's external borders are not sufficiently secured, we must put in place national measures to be prepared for the event. With today's decision, we set framework conditions that give us scope for action, which accelerate procedures, asylum on time, family succession. For me, it is very important that we agree on the issue of integration together and therefore, I say, as a division of the population avoids. Integration should be our mission for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16715	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16736	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We have often dealt with the concept of responsibility in the context of this discussion today, and so on. I do not want to overstep this concept, but in the end it has just been mentioned by my predecessor. In the difficult situation of last year, in which we had hoped that Europe's decisions on the part of the Solidarity Community will be taken quickly in our minds and in the interests of the refugees, we had to note that this did not work. It was therefore quite clear that the Federal Government and also us as Parliament, as MEPs, politicians, could not go on the agenda, but rather discuss it and how we will deal with further developments in the future. We must also note that there has been a very large solidarity community in Austria, but in recent months and especially weeks this solidarity community has been bubbling. What is not supposed to happen, however, is that this solidarity is breaking down. This would be completely bad, negative for society in our country, and would also harm not only those who are with us and who are living here and who we want to integrate reasonably, but also those who will still come to us. In this context, I would like to send the following message: It is sometimes expressed here in the discussion that no more people fleeing our country will be taken up. That's not true! We will continue to grant asylum to people, we will continue to integrate people into our country, because we feel obliged to do so – we do. However, we have no alternative but to take measures which in the worst case bring certain rules in place so that we do not get back to the situation in our country in which we have already been. It's also a question of conscience for me: What responsibility do I have with my vote for our country? – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, for reason of reason, I am voting in favour of this law. Showing responsibility also sometimes means jumping over its ideological shadow. But I do not abandon my ideological attitude if I agree here so that Europe too is awakened. I don't leave my ideology. when I realize that the mood is tickling in our country. And I'm not leaving my ideology because we're still going to take up people and integrate them. I also find it fair to those who still come to us that we can give them prospects. However, we can only give them prospects if – and this has often been mentioned today – enough childcare places, enough living space, enough jobs and much more are created. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it is our responsibility to agree to this law in this form today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16788	Next speaker: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16809	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! One thing in the first place: Such a situation, as we experienced in 2015, as hundreds of thousands of people have been uncontrolled and unregistered in and through our country, will no longer exist with this law. It is not in any way that we are doing a scrapping with the border management measures set, but if our southern neighbours cannot or do not want to do their tasks through a fearsome increase in escape movements, and in turn we have to be prepared for this situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is amazing that Germany remains officially in its welcome culture, but Chancellor Merkel says on the question of the measures in the event of a resurgence of the escape movement over the Mediterranean route: Then Austria will close the burner. – Obviously, you are very happy to rely on Austria. But, my Ladies and gentlemen, European cooperation looks different. That is why the measures of this asylum and security package are so important. This law does not alter our willingness to grant all the asylum we need as long as we are able to cope with it. But it is also true that after three years as a state and an asylum seeker, we will automatically examine whether the reasons for persecution or escape are still in place. This makes it clear that asylum does not automatically mean an unlimited immigration. The accelerated testing procedure is also important. According to the example of Switzerland, in future it will be decided more, quickly and directly at the border whether asylum applications have a chance to achieve a positive outcome. This means that if it is clear from the outset that the person in Austria will not receive asylum, the refugees will be saved for months of waiting and unclearness. Also, the practice of many refugees without the appropriate asylum grounds, initially, in order to avoid the relocating of this law due to the failure to comply with the deadline – that was so far seven days – will be suspended by this law. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not currently have an emergency in Austria. This asylum and security package, however, is the guarantee that, if Europe does not find a common approach and our southern neighbours cannot or do not want to fulfil their tasks, we will also have the appropriate means to safeguard and enforce the rule of law. Conditions such as 2015 will no longer exist with the decision of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16863	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16885	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very easy to startle fears and fear strangers, but it is also very easy to accuse someone of inhumanity and lack of democratic understanding. It is much more difficult to establish a process that follows, on the one hand, the humanitarian tradition of Austria and, at the same time, to create a framework with which we can provide assistance not only for the Austrian population, but also for those who will be looking for protection and assistance in Austria for decades to come. I hold it consistently with my colleague Pilz, who said this morning that humanity and reason are not a contrast, but rather complement each other in politics. That is why I really cannot understand why the Greens cannot vote in favour of, for example, standardizing the border control law that asylum seekers at the Austrian border take fingerprints and register them with photo. All the other parties, from NEOS to Stronach to FPÖ, will agree to this law, because it must be a matter of course, and I do not think that it is humane that someone crossing the Austrian border is also registered. Provision must be made for this. This was not possible last year when 800,000 people came to Austria, moved through Austria, and sought asylum in Austria for 90 000. It was a situation that was close to the rule of law. That is why we need legal materials to guarantee internal security and public order on the one hand, and on the other hand those who seek protection and help to be able to give them in the future. And we will continue to provide at least this famous 37 500 people every year with protection and assistance and enable integration in the appropriate quality. But this also means that we do not have mass camps, tent cities or any quarters in football stadiums or elsewhere, but that these people are humanely accommodated, that there are places in childcare facilities and in schools, and that they also find a way to finance their livelihoods themselves on the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not made it easy in social democracy to hold this debate. But unlike others, we have launched a review process, we have also taken many objections very seriously and included them in an amendment. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to do it like Mr Korun, who has taken out some sentence from various opinions. I could do that, too. For example, if the opinion of the municipality of Vienna was cited, I also quote: From the country Vienna is noted as ‘no general reservations’ against this scheme. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken the process very seriously and will also decide the laws in the hope that we will never be embarrassed to actually apply all these paragraphs for the benefit of the Austrians and for the benefit of those, who seek protection and help from us.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16939	Federal Minister Mag. Sobotka has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e16960	High house! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to remind you of a few things. The reason for the fact that the duration of proceedings is currently on average seven and a half months is simply that we currently have 65 000 uncompleted procedures. In 2014, the duration of the proceedings was three months. We have also complied with the relevant provisions. This buffer is now necessary in order not to cause any problems. Canada has already received 25,000 Syrian refugees, 10,000 are still coming. In Austria alone, there are more than 32 000 Syrians who have asylum status here. Canada has 35 million inhabitants, and we have over 8 million inhabitants. If you look at the situation, how many asylum seekers we have compared to other countries, I have to say, there are as many applications in Austria as in 17 other European countries, including Spain, France and many others. Because of the cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, we are able to effectively protect the borders. It does not matter when property owners do not provide their reason, because the border protection given by the German army's assistance service ensures complete surveillance in this case too. Why this is necessary, I can still justify it by a number. We have in the first three months, of 1. January 2016 until the end of March, an increase in the number of asylum applications by 38 percent. If we continue in this way, we would not expect 90 000 applications, but much more. And if Italy, in particular, is not prepared to change its management decisively, it is necessary – and the colleague has already made it very clear with his example of Gries on the Brenner – that border management is clearly involved. It's not closing the limit on the burner! The Minister of Finance shall provide a hundred customs officials to ensure, in particular, economic permeability. Of course, it is also clear that the fence management will not be subject to this unregulated migration until the time when it really comes to this uncontrolled migration, because at present we certainly have no reason to apply these special provisions. And I attach importance to the fact that you stick to the correct textual design and do not always insinuate something that the legislator does not want to represent. At the same time, there are many regulations which are repeatedly adopted in accordance with the main committee. I do not see a breach of the Constitution here either, which the experts note accordingly. To conclude: The integration test is an individual procedure. If, after three years or after a certain number of years, it is found that the grounds for asylum are no longer available, then an individual examination procedure must take place. This makes the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum in the form that it is also in the Austrian Requests for Integration Fund: Are the measures proposed by someone also being implemented? Are the testimonies here? That is, only if there is no integration if there is a corresponding decomposition from the Austrian culture and community, then the deportation threatens. This is a case-by-case examination, and asylum law is guaranteed in all forms.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17022	Mr Plessl is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17043	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard the statement many times today that the arms law should be liberalized. To this end, the Minister of the Interior was invited by the FPÖ, but also by the Stronach team. I would like to say quite clearly: never have more weapons brought more peace. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] The main problem of these refugee movements, which we are discussing today, is that there are many companies in the European Union that still make a lot of money selling war materials to all parties. That is also a reason why we are creating a legal basis today. I have heard many different opinions from Members today, and it has already been announced that there will be the possibility of a special regulation in the future. I would like to briefly outline the regulation in question. This special regulation will only enter into force if the Schengen borders are not secured if our neighbouring countries are responsible for their tasks. There will be an increase in border management and the European Commission will be informed. It'll take six months. There are then possibilities for extension provided that the European Council agrees. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to use this special right of regulation. However, we must make arrangements so that we are not surprised like last year. We need a set of rules in order to be able to operate in the short term. Because you, colleague Darmann, spoke of a placebo effect: I think it is all right for the Federal Office to have more time to be able to deal with legal concerns, objections et cetera in accordance with the law. One thing I would like to say to the FPÖ: We had a high delay in asylum procedures from 2000 to 2006 and we had to make numerous legal adaptations to deal with the residue. Finally, one more thing: Minister for the Interior, sit In future, they will step up their efforts at European level against the sale of war material! A comment: At European level, the FPÖ Group has rejected the Commission's proposals, such as greater control of war material and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17092	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17114	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called refugee debate A quote from Pope Benedict fits very well. He said: Without truth, there is no justice. Why am I quoting the Pope here? – In the so-called refugee debate, we really have a problem with the truth, because the vast majority of people who come to us, which has already sounded a few times today, are not real refugees but migrants. I believe that we should therefore find a new word in this whole debate, and we should talk about a "migration crisis" and not a "refugee crisis" and a "migration debate" rather than a "refugee debate". [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This is also not really valuable to the real refugees who come to us when we all throw into a pot and always talk about the refugees in toto and use a pars pro toto here in the debate. That is not serious and, in principle, not all right. I think it's reasonable for politicians of every couleur to use the correct terms. The super term refugee/refugee is not correct in this debate. In the sense of words, as we know – Dublin Agreement, Schengen et cetera – the refugees are only on the border, on the EU's external border, or in the first country, where he makes his request. We have – if we come to the figures again – as the Minister has already suggested today, only 40 percent legal recognitions in the field of asylum. That is, we only have 40 percent successful asylum seekers, the rest are economic refugees, as it is called somewhat nonchalant, or illegal migrants. We have to get through, because we really have to make clear diagnosis, because only with clear diagnostics do we also come to clear therapies. As a doctor, it always makes me a little bit of hair if Euphemisms are always introduced in this debate and euphemistically argued, as if all who come to us would be so very poor that they need our immediate help. This is not correct and it is not true to those who really need help, ladies and gentlemen. So we really should introduce a new word. My proposal and my appeal All of them, including the Federal Government, are therefore, that we ban the words “refugee crisis” and “refugee debate” from our language usage and speak of a migration crisis and a migration debate, because only then will we be fair to the matter and only then can we really introduce and implement proper, new laws, such as what we decide to do today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17175	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17196	Madam President. High house! Many have asked me, especially about the opposition, why we agree to this law today. We would be in a happy position to let the government slip out, because the government today needs our approval, as it did not seem to be able to convince everyone in its own ranks. Now, of course, I admit that this is a charming idea, but I think that we just have too much responsibility here in this House than that we have such a It is important that we do not bring important legislation through Parliament, where we need it as urgently as a bite of bread. We have a situation where practically one year now nothing has been done about a development that has been so negative and where we have been asked again and again – and above all the Greens are asking this again and again – where the rights of immigrants and migrants are, unfortunately, no one has asked the question so far: Where are the rights of the Austrians? [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Nobody asked the question: Where is a state's right of self-determination? As a people, can we not decide who should come to us and who can't? – They say it’s against human rights. But: We also have human rights! We have the right to choose, who comes and who does not! There are two reasons why we are experiencing so much resistance here today – and we have experienced all kinds of discussions outside the doorway too – why this law is being worked against here. First of all, it is the asylum industry, which deserves an incredible amount of money with those who are seeking asylum here, and second, it is the EU, where the highest migration commissioner between 17 and 70 million people – as he is not yet quite sure – wants to get into the country because he believes that he can solve the demographic problems. That's the background! That is also the reason, and there are also the greens firmly in it, why you leave here uncontrolled and above all Muslims in the country. Now I have nothing against Muslims, we have ourselves employed in the club which, no problem at all. These are Bosnian Muslims, not a subject. But with the Muslims you let into the country, so-called political Islam comes along. Political Islam is probably the most dangerous to the world peace that we have experienced since the Second World War since the Nazi regime. As convinced antifascists, they should recognize that political Islam has very, very many fascist traits. Therefore, as an antifascist, you should also fight against an ideology here. I'm not talking about a religion. Religion is private. Religion can live everyone the way he wants him to be Buddhist, whether he is Hindu, whether he is Christian, no matter what. The problem is that there is a political Islam, and it is just around the world, and we really have to be afraid of that. I believe that this law is also there to prevent more of those radical Islamists coming into the country, which ultimately destabilize us all, just as they have done in their countries. Because nothing else happens: We import these conflict regions, we import the local problems into our country. We already see this with the Turks and the Kurds, who regularly strike each other here in Austria. We see that we have already imported this conflict into the country. Now you want to continue leaving political Islam into the country. And this law is there to prevent that. That's why this law is good. That is why we agree with this law, even if it is only a first step in the right direction. You should also do so if you want to live a certain amount of responsibility for this country and if you do not want to continue in your utopian world, because that is the problem of the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17285	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs or one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law amending the Asylum Act, the Foreign Police Act and the BFA Procedure Act in 1097 of the Supplements. Mr Schabhüttl, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled a total amendment. I shall therefore immediately vote on this draft law as amended by the amendments as a whole. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this draft law, including the title and receipt in 1097 of the supplements, as amended by the amendments tabled by Mrs Schabhüttl, Mr Amon, colleagues, and others, to vote in favour. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. [[Under loud calls, air stationers are thrown by the gallery.]] I'm trying to clear the gallery – and I'm continuing with the vote. [[Call the FPÖ: Goodbye! Goodbye!]] [[Abg. Strache: That must have been the socialist youth!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put their votes in the votes cast. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their third-reading approval to the “Yes” vote, those who vote against to cast “No” vote in the urn. I now ask the writer, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17352	The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17390	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 165; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 98, No votes: 67. This draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer; Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, Dietrich, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hagen, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Knes, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Strasser, Schoff, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinbichler; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Refusal torpher, Wenninger, Wimmer, Minzig, Wittmann, Wöinger, Wurm Gisela; Zakostelsky. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brückl, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Doppler; Gamon Claudia Angela, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Fuchs; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Hübner; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Korun, Kucharovich, Kumpitsch; noise, lights, lints, loackers; Maurer, mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pock; Smoke Walter, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schelenbacher, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Steger, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Vavrik; Walser, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill, Worm Peter; Yılmaz; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17582	We shall now proceed to further votes, namely the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr Colle be members and colleagues with regard to the review of a regulation in accordance with § 36 para. 1 Asylum Act 2005. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an acceptable signal. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 137.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, fellow Members, on 'Higher penalties for tugs'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of a sign that is acceptable. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleagues, on '48 hours of asylum procedure in accordance with the Swiss model'. Whoever comes in for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleagues and colleagues, on the establishment of EU camps in North Africa for persons with negative asylum status. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law amending the border control law and the BFA Procedure Act, including title and entry into 1098 of the Supplements. If you're right, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign in this regard. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schenk, colleagues and colleagues on 'DNA fingerprint'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1099 of the supplements. Whoever agrees to take note, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1100 of the supplements. If you're right, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1101 of the Supplements. If you're right, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1102 of the Supplements. I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1103 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this knowledge, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1104 of the Supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1105 of the Supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:54:21]] 13. Point First reading: Government template: Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 will be adopted, as well as the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and the Federal Financial Act 2016 (1096 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17784	This leads us to the 13th place. Agenda item. . I welcome Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Schelling. We are going into the debate immediately. Mr Krainer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17811	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we take the Federal Financial Framework Act for the years 2017 to 2020 into a first reading, it has been decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers. As the name says, it is clear that this is about framework conditions, on the one hand, the framework in which the budget forecast and budget planning are carried out for the next four years, and, on the other hand, the framework for each department. When we look at how the financial framework and the framework conditions develop, it is clear, as in recent years, that one of the key framework conditions is still the impact of the financial crisis since 2008 and thus the accompanying banking crisis and economic crisis in the following years. This is due to high budget costs, especially as regards bank remediation, bank rescuing and bank settlement. You'll see here. Not only the high social costs of unemployment, but of course also the monetary costs of unemployment are very clear, and I think it is absolutely right that additional resources should be put in place to enable people affected by long-term unemployment to get a job again and enter the labour market through qualification, through training. The third point, which can be seen as a framework condition in the Federal Financial Framework in the next few years, is the challenges associated with refugees. We were not only facing a major challenge last year, but will also be so in the next few years. We are going to have the task and the challenge next year to take in tens of thousands of refugees, to live here properly, to provide them with integration opportunities, to teach them German, to include children in schools, and to offer them a perspective. These are the three essential framework conditions that shape the federal financial framework in the next few years. What is still being seen in the Federal Financial Framework is the policy of recent years. For example, one can see in the area of pensions that the reforms that have been made here to make people work longer, work longer and work later in retirement. Through the financial framework, we see how this reform works and how it is about several billions. So not every year by several billions, but on average every year by one billion we have to spend less than we have thought because these reforms work. And that's good that we can make people work longer, that is, the actual retirement age is rising. And you can see from the financial framework that these reforms have also worked. What we still see is interest rate development as a positive – not because we have fewer debts, but because interest rates are simply very low, and this is also felt very strongly in the budget. It is seen that we have scope for the important tasks such as the fight against unemployment, care and so on, and that we also benefit from them. What you can see is that the income structure has changed, not least by the tax reform that came into force this year, with which we have reduced taxes and taxes on work by about €6 billion. In other words, we have reduced taxes on work, while in return we have carried out counter-financing with capital and capital taxes. We find that very positive. This is a way that has been going since 2008: To reduce taxes and taxes on labour and more fairer taxes on capital and assets. These are points on which one sees that the policy that has been made in recent years also works. There is another very positive thing I see, and that is because Parliament has often decided that we need to do more for development cooperation – that the cuts made in this area a few years ago, which, I believe, were a mistake, are being taken back and, here again, increased expenditure, more money is being provided. It is not just a question of how much money I spend, but, above all, how do I spend it – that is, that this money is actually spent on poverty reduction and that people have a perspective in countries where they have little or no perspective today. and that this makes a positive contribution to this, I say once again that we are making a global effort to combat poverty and not just to fight symptoms. A symptom of poverty worldwide, for example, is migration developments, and stopping them is a symptom fight. And it is about actually spending this money to combat the cause, namely poverty and inability on the ground. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] What I see as half positive is that what we have had in recent years, i.e. structural under-bending in the education sector, is at least indirectly fixed; not directly – it would be right to do that – but at least indirectly on the strategy report. What I also think is very positive is that we are taking money for integration into account where education is concerned, where it is, of course, also about security, but above all, about education and integration measures. I think it is positive that we have put in place several measures to increase tax honesty. We have put in place measures that go across society, i.e. large taxpayers as well as small taxpayers. I believe, however, that we still have to use loopholes, especially in the case of very large income stakeholders – who, as we see from Panama Leaks and the like – in order not to pay their taxes honestly. I believe that it is right to have a registration bank obligation, I believe that the besiegation obligation is correct, I only think that understanding it would be a higher one if one saw that against the upper tens of thousands and their “tricks” – under quotation marks – in order not to make their fair tax contribution is more effective. There are a number of national measures that we could still put in place. We had a special meeting a few days ago, since we made a number of proposals from SPÖ, such as – for example – a reminder – an obligation to disclose letterbox companies, to declare themselves as taxpayers in Austria and not to make them secret, but to declare them. Or: a national list of tax swamps – that is, simply restricting relations with tax swamps and allowing parts of the world, which simply do not cooperate, to be cut off from payment flows and payment flows on our part. I would be pleased if, even as a signal to the broad mass – which has a high understanding of paying taxes when all pay their taxes – we found a wider majority here in the house, even more effective in dealing with the big black sheep. I invite everyone to discuss the federal financial framework very carefully with us in the next few weeks in the Committee on Budgets, but of course also measures that go beyond that, especially when it comes to what we can do, so that the large companies and the very rich individuals can pay their taxes honestly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17902	Mrs Tamandl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17924	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it has tradition in this House and it is also this time that we have the Federal Financial Framework Act, which is the framework with which we implement expenditure. This time – for the year 2017 to 2020 – pre-consult at a first reading. Next week, 4th. In May, we will have an intensive opportunity to discuss the Federal Financial Framework for the years 2017 to 2020 within the framework of a public expert hearing within the Budget Committee. There are very difficult conditions that the Minister of Finance has found – this year again – to create the financial framework for these four years, because we are still struggling with high unemployment, we want to continue our consolidation and growth course, and of course we do not want to risk EU procedures. That is why we want to continue to work to keep the structural zero deficit – since we have achieved a positive balance for the first time in 2015. That is to say, many critics, also on the sides of the opposition and on the sides of the experts who say that the budget does not keep the budget, are constantly being taught a better one, because the budget will then again be very positive in the federal accounts. What conditions do we have to meet with this framework plan? – We want to continue to implement structural reforms in public administration. We want to find better measures in pensions and in the labour market. Unfortunately, in the labour market, God’s success has not yet been so good, although we take a lot of money into our hands there. For example, unemployment will continue to rise in the coming years, up to 6.3 percent by 2020. Currently, or in 2015, we are 5.7 percent. That means there's nothing to beautify here at all. With this financial framework and with these spending ceilings, efforts are being made to put pressure on public debt. In fact, we should be up to 60 percent in 2020, but at least we are going to go down from a result of 2015, where we have a public debt of 86.2 percent, to 76.6 percent, because it is quite simply also important that we loosen funds for the future issues in this country and also for the youth. That's very, very important to us. The Minister of Finance is the one who manages the taxpayers' money with care. And it has also brought fresh money into the hands of those resorts that face special challenges, such as the flow of refugees or the integration of recognised refugees. Thank you very much for that. As far as integration is concerned, for example, it was half a billion euros – with a certain fragmentation in Austria, of course, because several ministries are getting money for integration measures, for German courses. That is to say, an evaluation of whether these measures and these funds are used efficiently should, I think, be considered. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as national defence is concerned, the call for more resources has been heard for a long time. In January 2014, we even expressed our support for the general military service. And now, some €900 million will be taken into hand here, so that the German army, even as regards the flows of refugees in terms of border protection, is properly financed. And, of course, in the field of internal security, as far as the police are concerned, there are 2,000 new police officers by 2020, and now 750 new police officers in the short term after six months of training for border use. The Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum is also increased by 250 employees. I think that is a very essential point. Not to be forgotten: the families. Yesterday the Childcare Account was brought on the journey in the Council of Ministers. This is very welcome: a flexibilization of child care variants for the families, a bonus when mother and father share the care obligations with each 50 percent, or also 60: 40 percent. This will cost us another €150 million. And, not to mention, the double increase in family aid by 1. January 2016 and 2018 by 1.9 percent each – also €180 million for families. Finally, I would like to highlight the tax reform which costs us €5 billion a year. This is also good, because Austrians, taxpayers and taxpayers deserved it. The reduction in additional labour costs of € 1 billion is also an essential point for job creation and maintenance. I believe that support should also be given to the advance or advances of the Minister of Finance, on the one hand with regard to the elimination of cold progression, which is a point that needs to be addressed to the tax reform, and, on the other, to the continuation of tax fraud. Mr Finanzminister, I would like to thank you very much for the new incentive to implement the reverse charge system, which is that in the future the taxpayers will be responsible for the tax. I think that's an essential point, and that's where you have my full support. As has been said, we will hold intensive discussions next week in the Budget Committee with regard to the Federal Financial Framework 2017 to 2020.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e17993	Now comes Mr Mag. Haider on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18014	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! So now he's available, the financial framework for the next four years, even a day earlier than originally planned – because he was actually on the agenda only tomorrow. But in Greece the next debt crisis is starting again, so we wanted to hold tomorrow a special meeting of the Euro Group in which the Minister for Finance should have participated. However, this special meeting has already been cancelled, because the problems in Greece are much greater than you have believed, and now Athens is even pressing for an EU summit of Heads of Government. Greece is therefore facing the inability to pay again, and the question is what will cost us this permanent rescue policy again, ladies and gentlemen. This is how a financial framework transforms into a work of work with many high declarations of intent. The intentions are also quite commendable: The budget deficit is expected to fall to 0.4 percent of GDP by 2020 and the huge government debt by just under 8 percentage points from 84.3 now to 76.6 percent of GDP in 2020. - So far, so beautiful. That wouldn't be so bad news. But unfortunately this will not happen. Then: The Minister of Finance has once again tricked a little in order to conjure up such fine figures from the hat. And the dove he has enchanted out of the hat is called structural deficit – that is, the one that results when one-time effects and unforeseen effects are calculated. [[Abg. Kogler: This is a requirement! These are Union targets!]] The idea in itself would not be so bad that one looks at unforeseen and inevitable events that cause unique costs separately. We can then see whether the budgetary direction is fundamentally right or whether there are structural problems. In our case, however, the structural deficit is unfortunately used to cover up government work and its impact on the budget. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] As an example, let's just take the costs for the migration storm. We've always heard that in recent times, that'll cost €1.2 billion. If we look at the figures, the stability report presented yesterday by the Minister for Finance and, above all, the figures reported in Brussels, we are talking about almost €2 billion in costs! These are the figures that have been reported in Brussels, and this is tax money, and we need to talk about it. - So 2 billion! But of course he tries to figure it out and present it as one-time effects. This is explained in the Strategy Report: “The additional need for border controls and management is therefore budgeted only for the years 2016 and 2017, as it is currently expected that the European solutions will and will need to be adopted in the medium term. From a budgetary point of view, these are temporary measures to be defined as one-time effects.” One-time effects? – The EU has remained in complete agony for more than a year, and then you hope, Minister of Finance, that something will finally happen now? You don't even think that these costs are one-time effects! We will have to bear these for many years, and for this reason too, this financial framework will not be maintained. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] But also for reasons that lie in other areas. Let's just look at the counter-financing you spoke about last year in your stress reform, however: That's where your numbers are waving so much! And that is not just what we are telling you, that is what all the experts tell you, especially your own, Mr Finanzminister. They say – these are your figures – that under the title “Battle Against Tax Fraud”, including the now well-known cash register obligation, €1.9 billion of counter-financing will flow into the budget. We liberals have questioned these figures from the very beginning, and in the meantime this has also doubted your own experts. For example, the chairman of the Fiscal Council this week – I quote him literally – said: “This sum in the 2016 budget was quite courageous. [...] When you reach half, you can already be satisfied. [...] At the end of the year, there will definitely be no proper amount.” – The chairperson of the Fiscal Council of Felder. So there is a lot missing in this budget in the future. Even the 1.1 billion you budget as counter-financing from administrative reforms – we do not see any reforms made by this government in recent times – will not come in. The Fiscal Council also says: “We also do not believe in this post that the state will reach the set goal.” So no savings in funding, the transparency database is a bad joke, there is nothing to see from a state reform that explodes the cost of health care and social security, nothing is done in minimum security – except in Upper Austria, where fortunately the liberals rule. [[Abg. Vogl: Whether this is a happiness...!]] The only thing that saves this budget is the low interest rates and is the cold progression, and they go to the expense of the savers and to the wage taxpayers. And that's something you don't do anything about, and that's exactly what people hate – that's what you see in the results of the elections. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that things are different also shows that our neighbouring countries Germany and Switzerland. The surpluses generated, which reduce their deficits. In Switzerland, the debt ratio fell from 43 to 34 percent from 2006 to 2015 – at the same time that the red and black government is at work in Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: But there has been a long way of living with foreign capital, in Switzerland! Of stinking foreign capital!]] In Austria, it rose by more than 20 percent under Red-Black in exactly the same time. These are the consequences of your policy! This financial framework is therefore the number-defined refusal of reform and inactivity of this Federal Government. He is – and I cannot say otherwise – a document of failure. Obviously you do not want to see the problems in Austria. Apparently you are not willing to make the necessary reforms either. Obviously you are not able to govern this country and lead it into the future. This financial framework is a document of failure. Pull the consequences and open the way for a genuine reform government!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18110	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18132	Mr President. Federal Minister! I believe that the subject matter will probably be discussed in depth – as I join Mrs Tamandel in this regard – in the hearing. This has now become a tradition in a way. We must at least praise this, including the work here in the house, that we can also do this around the financial framework. That is why the debate is perhaps a little tough now, because, like a real withdrawal call for action to the government, it has not really sounded like it. I would like to address some of the issues I have raised today with regard to the budget path and the methods of calculation. A final reference to the previous speaker: You always have to see who you're skinning if you want to cut someone. I cannot now see that the Federal Minister – otherwise I would have had to learn something; if that were the case, I did not understand – is responsible for these methods of calculation. I take away the media, as far as the structural deficit is concerned – we know: structural deficit, old Maastricht rule, and the classical administrative system – that the Minister of State, along any criteria – I have not followed that, but it is to be seen in the relevant reports – is trying to do so itself, clearly, that this calculation of the structural deficit, which is, indeed, a complete economic haircut, we know, at least simplified. Theoretically, it made sense to assume from an economic philosophy that, at least if all private investment goes back and the state wishes to counter one-off investments, for example, or if certain things are unique, that of itself – this will be done by this side anyway ever more demanding – strict budgetary rules are virtually indirectly or directly excluded. The practice is very, very difficult. But I think it would really be the wrong address if one were to swirl around at the Minister for Finance. I wonder how this will continue. We have several criticisms ourselves. But we can also see that we cannot steal from it before the debate, and everyone can say that soon: Such stupidity, the structural budget deficit! Our group would have other proposals for recalculation than this group, because there is always a shot of economic ideology. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] In any case, we now come to those things that are easier to see! – I cannot say exactly how far the budget path will be, if you look at it by 2020. For this day you have to say: As my colleague Rossmann says, the systematic structural underfinancing of the education sector will have to lead to a supplement. I cannot finalise it yet, but the danger of this being done is very serious in the area, and the colleague missing today on the government bank who is responsible for education policy is being formulated louder. In any case, this danger cannot be overlooked. Now to the priorities. – You always talk about where something happens. It is a bit recognizable in the so-called security chapters, but I do not think so much of it now, but where it would really be about future areas has not changed much. However, there is also ongoing criticism, which I will now put on this point. This criticism concerns, on the one hand, investment in the fields of education – which I have already said today, I do not repeat – although it is not always about money there, and on the other hand, areas where money is very good, and these are the promotions. We need funding that has a very positive impact on the economy and, above all, on the employment situation, which is necessary in the environmental field, in the field of modern technologies, the energy industry, the environment. There would be much more possible, but there has now been nothing great happening, but it is different from the last budget framework, where massive cuts have been made. When we remember what came out of the thermal renovations and climate fund donations, we have to say: These are effects that point to something other than what can obviously be achieved with the will expressed at such conferences as in Paris, in climate summits or in the global climate agreement. So in the individual countries – perhaps we are not the only ones at all – this will not be the immediate result. I have also not seen an investment or support line, at least not a budgetary one that would have to do with these objectives. On the contrary: Last year the conference was held, and last year the financial framework for this area has been reduced. Now has been the climate conference in Paris, and one could think that the amount goes up, but no. It's similar with other positions. I am going to come to this for a short time, I am never going to let it happen: that we also believe that a tax and tax rate of 43, 44 percent is not always about demanding additional expenditure, but also about identifying a few places where something could go. I'm going to do that, I'm just gonna stick to the UG 46 window for a moment: Financial stability. What is there for Euphemisms! At the time, we have baptized the law so, in reality, it is about banking aid or, in the best sense, what is associated with the stabilisation: that the damage to the economy from the financial sector is not so great. This results in something positive there or there. But we all know what backgrounds this has in Austria. You, Mr Finanzminister, are in no way guilty, that is quite clear. Only: One must never let go of what this has cost us, many, many billions. And anyone who has now looked at it exactly has discovered that it is for this title with the means, plus the four-year-old, again over 2.5 billion by 2020. I don't want to be as excited today as I do at this point. There's something to praise, by the way, I have to say. The other day, we had been very clear in the investigations that, especially in 2013 – by chance a year of election – was systematically and unconstitutionally supported, as we mean. It has long been known that, for example, it will not be possible to hear any more – but Hypo Alpe-Adria will go by several billions, which will also have a full impact, no matter what solution, unless we had already organized payment stop and debt cut at the time, on a different basis from that of then, where it was set at 130 million, in part with an under-do away of more than ten times, with a start and with full intention. That's where I have to say: It seems to me that the current variant is more realistic. This is not a cause for joy, but a praise for a little more transparency and more truth is in place. No one can say exactly to the million in these things anyway. So a laughing, but above all a crying eye, when you know how much we've already put in there – every group can now calculate after their fascism – and when you consider that we've seen 10 or 15 go down anyway. And now some more are coming. Other banks have also had something. You're already in an area of about 20 billion. Mr Krainer then always cites the bank levy at this point. - Should be. Your group will perhaps take the defence budget back and see how many defence budgets have already been reduced. Others may have other preferences. But it says: You should never forget these things completely! But now to the reforms! – These are not directly defined in the financial framework, but they can already be observed continuously in parallel with the negotiations on the financial compensation process. Perhaps you, Minister of Finance, can tell us something more encouraging in the Financial Committee than we can get out of the media. The Greens are systematically excluded from these negotiations. Even where we are ruling, the EIA is not prepared to allow transparency or even a proper negotiating basis. But we won't let that happen for long. But I can't see that there's been some efficiency gain up to now. Soon the whole thing is over, and I'll see you sit down and negotiate again. And then there is an extension, with all the related additional complications, which then results, for example in the areas of care and hospitals, where then numerous articles-15a agreements are made. From: In the areas of health, hospitals, schools and, above all, the promotions that concern over-educated federalism, I have to say, a lot, much more inside. The fact that the federal states are still not ready to fill the transparency database with anything close to meaning only shows what a hard fight it will be – toi, toi, toi! – or still is, only no one can agree that there is no point in saving money in this state. To date, we do not know who is economically promoting, I just know that in my federal state those companies that already make most of the profits get the biggest promotions. If that's done, we should also ask questions. That's why we still have enough to do. We'll discuss the whole thing at the hearing. A next tax reform must look different from the old one. We hope that we will not have too many losses in the place where we have put off the counter-financing, because, I fear, it will not work as well as it has been assumed. Be quiet! We will anyway need a new, a real, an ecological-social one.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18229	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18250	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! Today we are discussing the new federal financial framework. That's the law work we're doing financially for the next few years. This is, of course, an important box stop for the financial composition of our country if you want to do so. The view is just as it has always been the last half century: We now have more or less clarity that we are continuing by 2020 what we have done over the past 53 years, namely every year new debts – that is, also under Minister of Finance Schelling. Hans-Jörg Schelling, you know, I appreciate a lot of what you've been trying to do here. Much is simply not possible with the two government parties, so there is a need for change and change. But, of course, it is already violent that even in years of low interest rate, as it has never experienced this republic, we do not manage to create a balanced budget. Now you come with the relief structure that you say: We have no structural deficit! That means one-time effects are calculated out. But let's be honest! Of course, this is also an interesting calculation that you say: How does it look structurally, how does it look overall? But it is simply not sincere that people should scatter sand into their eyes and say: We do not make new debts anyway, because there is a structural zero deficit. We make sure new debts every year, even in the next four years. That is, in 2020 it will be the 58. Year in a row in which we put new stones in a really heavy debt backpack for the next generation. It's not okay, it's not generation-friendly, it's not future-fit, it's not unique, it's a burden for a generation that is now going into its working life with the prospect of experiencing the highest unemployment since World War II, which goes into an overdebtedness that goes into the perspective of non-generational social systems. This is not fair to young people. Minister of Finance, that's better. And if someone says these are natural laws, we have an economic crisis and a financial crisis et cetera, then I have to say: No, it's better if you want! There are, of course, countries that have fates similar to us, but Sweden, for example, shows that falling tax rates and falling public debt are possible at the same time. Sweden – obviously a social state! Switzerland even develops surpluses during the economic and financial crisis. In this series, Germany is also mentioned, which in recent years has been balanced with balanced budgets. That means they're not natural laws. If you combine this with the economic outlook for Austria, which gives us international institutions along the way, then it becomes gloomy. Why? – Because, for example, the IMF describes the forecasts in such a way that we are the final light in the European Union together with Italy in 2021. This is a point that will, of course, make a lot of progress in Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If we believe that all this is statistics and that all this has nothing to do with real life, then we have been very deceived. And we'll be fooled if something else is precipitated to us. After all, there is a real rupture in the Austrian society system, and that will be eaten in every household, in every family. We will lose quality of life, we will lose wealth, especially the young generations will lose opportunities, and that is blasphemous. The economic location loses obvious attractiveness. This has to do with, Minister, that this government does not bring about substantial reforms. There's just nothing to do with it. ==References== November 2015, the date of the announcement of an educational reform, when it was announced after a year of negotiation: Now comes the educational reform, and we will bring it over the edge by June 2016! What we're actually putting on the edge is more or less a transfer of decades of tried-and-tested school trials to the general school system. It's not a rocket science, it's not even little bread. It is not allowed to overwrite ‘education reform’. Whatever we don't get over the edge is a pension reform. This government obviously does not bring the transparency database over the edge, which has been blocked for six years by the so-called state princes. I also have great concerns that the financial compensation will really do something because the ÖVP and the SPÖ themselves have been tied up. Then: De facto, the state princes have a veto right. That is, if they are not improved – and they have been gradually improved each year by the “grey” financial compensation, the Article 15a agreements – if they do not receive more money for their tax-money-burning machine, called organized responsibility, brand federalism Austria, then they will put in a veto. This is the fate of this country: We are hostageed by princes of the country, princes of darkness, who do not reveal how they burn the money. As long as these two parties are in government responsibility, nothing will change – even if people are good will in individual offices, just like Mr. Schelling, for they are several times bound, tied, shattered by these rulers! That's why we need a new structural power building. This will be the great discussion of the next few months and years. It is a variant of change evident, and I believe that there are other forces now in the duty to develop a force field in such a way that the population understands that there is still a second option for change. That's what we're going to work on!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18329	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18350	High house! Mr Finanzminister, I do not want to exchange with you, you have no easy job in this Republic, and I also agree that you were good courage when you started. I can also imagine that it is not easy for you in a situation where the actual circumstances force one to end up throwing all the reform projects overboard. Since you are already making a somewhat fighting impression on me, I can also imagine why this is so, and I would also like to add an example. Since you are in office and, of course, before, we have discussed that there is a problem in education. The Minister of Education has explained this again and again, and the Court of Auditors has also said that there is an incredible amount of money missing in education. In concrete terms, this was €300 million until recently, now it is € 550 million. You have always said that there is no money there, you want to see reforms, and so on. Now we have the refugee problem, which, of course, didn't cause you, that's clear to me, but then suddenly there are €2 billion. There will then be very easy money to provide for the refugees you did not bring into the country, but with regard to which you seem to have an incredible desire to treat them as a priority. There's money going to be put in there. But when it comes to education, it simply says: Wait till the end of the year! This is how we proceed in the financial framework, so that we say: In education we wait until the end of the year, and we hope that something will happen to us! – But this is not the right way, Minister! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I believe that you see this as well, because education is the very substrate of a people, a country to secure the future. These are not refugees, quite the contrary, most of the refugees who come to us make problems rather than secure us from anything in any way. You know that, too, and that is why I can understand you very well and that is why you are probably not thrilled that you need to invest in the wrong direction. I also know who owes this – the structures you brake in the background! But if you really want to leave something behind as a minister – because, as you hear, you are not going to be a minister for that long time, because you already saw hard on your branch, which I very much regret, because I think you might be a minister who could move a lot – then you would have the chance to actually leave something behind by the end of the year, which might perhaps be my children and my grandchildren too. Name: They could be so far across from the financial balance that at last we would have a substantial reform in that country. This has already been said by Mr Strolz: We have a problem with federalism, with the princes of the country. We have the problem that the state princes hold a government and also a finance minister. You only have the opportunity to say stop when you make financial compensation. They also have the opportunity to finally break down all the most corrupt structures in the countries to use the €30 billion that flow into the countries every year, where no one knows what the national princes are doing with it, at last for useful purposes. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That would be a good concept once! You could leave something there, too. But will survive politically You are not, of course, opposed to the heads of state, because we have the problem that both parties are democratically legitimate in themselves and that the national princes determine the respective party members. They will, of course, have a problem with this when you finally do what is necessary in this country. As has been said, political survival will be achieved. She did not, but then it would be good to sacrifice herself for something that might bring something good to my children and perhaps also to my grandchildren, namely, finally to go off with this federalism and finally put on the thumb screws to the countries so far that the money they waste uselessly flows to where we need it. The possibility you would have, I trust you, I trust you in this courage. You are not dependent on politics, thank God, you are the prime minister who is not dependent on politics. So give yourself a back and sacrifice. You're for the good thing! Finally, try to bring something forward at the financial compensation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18419	Mr Bundesminister Dr. Schelling spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18441	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed a few comments. I will not go into details of this federal financial framework because there will still be an opportunity to discuss it in detail in the Committee on Budgets. The framework conditions were not favourable, because from my point of view, there are areas that we need to finance, but I would have liked this money to be used differently – even lovingly, I have said so too. I am sure that we have other important issues. Mr Lugar, we could now make a bet: I claim here that I'm more Finance Minister than you are Clubobmann. [[Cheerfulness and condolences of the Abg. Lichtenecker and the congratulation of Mr Lopatka and Mr Vogl.]] - We'll wait for the distress. But because you address education, I would like to say why I have chosen this procedure: If, in the middle of the negotiations on financial compensation, one had now been taught in the middle of the discussion on education reform – and you know that education is also a matter of country – then nothing would have happened. That is why I have decided to say that we are including this in the strategy report, but I would like to be delivered now, which is promised. Why is that important? – We have one of the most expensive education systems with one, as we all know, relatively poor output. They all rightly demand that we not only powder more and more money into the systems, but also look: What's going on with this money out of the system? In many areas, as you rightly say, we need to catch up. That's what I'm standing for. Let us look at the following – Mr Strolz is, I think, not there, but still –: In order to produce this transparency that he has addressed, I have adopted the VRV to ensure that we can understand how the money is used at the federal level in the future. To implement this regulation was quite a act of strength, but it is in force and is being prepared accordingly. As the transparency database was mentioned: It will now be filled in two fields, in the fields of energy and the environment, and on the basis of these data, which the countries now provide, there will be detailed analyses of whether these data are suitable for controlling the funding based on the findings from the transparency database. Mr Kogler spoke about energy, about the environment: In this respect, for example, it would be exciting for me to answer the question using the transparency database, in which country alternative energy – for example, we remain solar – is promoted. Indeed, most solar plants would have to be found in the country where there is the largest funding. If that doesn't come out, then we can start controlling this knowledge. – That is why I convinced the countries that they will provide all the data in the area of environment and energy and that we will take the next step in filling up the transparency database. Now, of course, you can say: Well, that's a start. – That’s true too, it’s a start, but so far we haven’t made the start, and I always say: If you want to reach the goal, you also have to take the first step. We did it there. – It was not easy either, but after all, it has now succeeded. Mr Haider, quite frankly: You said you were ruling in Upper Austria, and that's why it's better there. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Little.]] – They also ruled in Carinthia, where it wasn't that good. In Upper Austria, however, nothing can happen because Pühringer pays attention to the fact that not too much is happening. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Go, go, go! Not funny!]] Now I would like to tell you the following, if you would like to quote the chairman of the Committee on Public Debt: I am allowed to call in – the journalists always tell me that the revenge of journalists is the archive; I also mean – and point out what was said about the 2015 budget, and then come to the government debt committee. It was said: You never do. ‘This budget will not be kept.’ The budget is "built on sand". The budget is a “budget lie”. That's wrong budget figures. The Fiscal Council, chaired by Felder, predicted in May 2014 that we had a structural deficit of minus 0.9, in the forecast of July 2014 minus 0.9, and in the forecast of May 2015 minus 0.6. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, everyone was wrong, because if I look at the outcome of the 2015 budget implementation, we are not minus 0.9, not minus 0.6, but according to Statistics Austria we are zero, and the Maastricht deficit is 1.8 at 1.2. The next financial framework, which, by the way, is not a budget – and I would like to make that clear again – will, of course, again be the same criticism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Not yet, but we're on our way!]] What else is one supposed to do than claim it doesn't hold? – But please take a look at it yourself. Your archives, what you have always claimed about the budgets and what has finally happened! Perhaps we can then agree to enter into an objective discussion. I would also like to say one thing very clearly: The 2015 budget figures, which are better than planned, are no reason to rejoice at all – no reason at all! There's no one who's supposed to cheer up a lot more money now, because one has to be clear: [[Call at the FPÖ: Why are the numbers better?]] If the framework conditions change, for example, by not keeping economic growth, as it is now forecast – by the way, and only so on the verge, the IMF numbers have never voted – if unemployment does something if refugee flows are not restricted, then the budget will be set up differently than the budget framework now provides. That's why I have to end... [[Abg. Steinbichler: This is a confession!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] – My God, if you’re talking about a confession, that’s almost an ad for yourself! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] What do I want to say? . We set up this budget framework under the most difficult conditions. I can still say to the 2015 budget and its conclusion that we have really been wrong. In fact, it was planned to grow 1.5 in 2015, but we only achieved 0.9 and still delivered much better budget figures. In other words, we will have to make every effort in the preparation for consolidation for the budget implementation of all subsequent years as strict as in the past, otherwise it will be clear that we need to re-adjust in individual areas. I am convinced that this financial framework has been put in a serious position. They will also receive a document for a very long-term forecast, one up to 2060. Personally, I especially like that someone can predict something by 2060 – we are already hard to predict in 2020, but should it be – because you can't read about it in detail, but possible trends. This long-term forecast prepared by WIFO also clearly shows that we need structural reforms. That clearly shows that! We are now in a situation where I would like to stress once again that it would have been preferable to put the €1.5 billion that we put in safety – by the way, some of it by means of a six-party request from Parliament – into investing, into better economic growth, into falling unemployment. But it will not be different at the moment, and that is why I say that it is right to put these measures into practice now. Take a look at the counter-financing measures! I mean, many would have liked it if the Constitutional Court had removed some provisions – but it did not. He has confirmed that it is proportionate what is done in the field of the register. Perhaps some didn't like it, some of them were happy about it. What we are positive about, because it is also about the location, is the decision to reduce additional wage costs. This is an important signal for the site as we actually invest there to make labour costs so attractive that competitiveness is given. Finally, I should like to give you a brief overview of the figures on which the financial frameworks are based: It is mainly based on a growth of the next few years, which the WIFO predicts to be between 1.5 percent and 1.6%, based on the fact that according to Eurostat, unemployment will be fairly constant at about 6.3 percent, although many predictions, when you remember last year, have built on the fact that unemployment will be a turning point in 2018 and will go down again. We don't expect that to happen. With regard to the structural deficit, I can say that we have done so with regard to the financial framework that we put the 0.5 into the financial framework, but I can also tell you that on the weekend – Friday, Saturday – in Amsterdam I was at the informal ECOFIN and a new calculation model was presented there, which is now going into a deeper analysis. I can remind you that it was Austria that triggered this discussion. I am perfectly aware of your attitude that things should be presented transparently. Of course, it is true that, under these conditions, we do not yet manage to get to zero with the Maastricht deficit, and the Maastricht deficit is inconceivable because it has a very simple basis for calculating statistics Austria and Eurostat, while the structural deficit is very difficult to calculate and represent. That is why we set up planning in such a way that in 2020 we will achieve 0.4, i.e. with a clear trend down. If the situation and the conditions are met, I am convinced that, as in 2015, we will achieve better results and achieve zero. However, this will not prevent us from looking at the long-term forecast of having to take these additional reform steps in some areas. I do not share the pessimism you have with regard to financial compensation. There's been a lot of moving. We will now see how the next rounds of negotiations are running, but an example that comes from the negotiations on financial compensation has been presented to you. In the two segments mentioned above, the transparency database is now being filled. This is a first negotiation result in this area. They have all rightly demanded this, and a first step has been taken. I believe that we will see in the discussion in the Committee on Budgets that this federal financial framework is solid and we will make every effort to keep the framework as well through the appropriate consolidation measures. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18554	Now comes Mr. Ing. Vogl to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18576	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! When I came to this house two and a half years ago, we had a discussion about the budget hole before us. At that time, everyone was so to speak eager to bring new figures, and we had a budget hole of 18 to 40 billion € in front of us. In the last two years – in 2014 and in 2015 – it has become a structural zero deficit, and despite all the tensions, it has also become a wage tax reform with a discharge volume of €5 billion for employees in our country. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's just not what anyone feels, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] Now, the previous speakers have rightly pointed out that much has not yet been taken into account in this financial framework, which would be important to all of us personally, I believe, because there are obviously still many important, meaningful projects that we cannot take into account with this narrow financial framework. As Upper Austrians, for example, I would of course like to see the Pyrn line extended double-track. As an enthusiastic train driver, this is of course something to be valued for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] [[Abg. Kogler: That's why we always have the question: Where do we invest?]] But, of course, we also know that this is a record debt and that we today have a government debt ratio of more than 86 percent, which alone rose by €10 billion last year, because we finally reduced the entire risk of the banks. That means we have created transparency, and that is something that is not pleasant, but that is to accept. What I am confident of is that we are in the right direction, is that in the coming years – by 2020 – we will reduce these public debt by about 10 percent. In contrast to my previous speakers, I also believe that this prognosis is being observed because in the last seven years we have always proved that what we have planned has been exceeded in reality. This also makes us confident that we can create additional spaces to restore accents that are important. In addition, it is more than four and a half thousand planning posts that we will now approve with this framework compared to our first proposal, because there are important accents in education, where we will use 950 additional teachers, in the area of security, where we will use additional police officers, and also in the area of the federal army. What is particularly important to us from social democracy is that at last the trend change in development cooperation has also been introduced. Of course, it is only a first step in the right direction. I also know that it is very good and convenient to argue about how big this step is. From my point of view, it is only a small step, but at least this financial framework at last indicates that we have more resources at our disposal. This framework, as has rightly been said, also offers the opportunity to shape the content. It will then also be important to determine what we are doing with these resources. Where do we use these resources in development cooperation? If we talk about preventing migration movements, where is the money used properly? – I believe that this is on the ground, with people, in order to improve the conditions of life there, so that these people also have a perspective on the ground. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then, of course, we have other major challenges in the area of labour market and care, which we also respond to. We will spend € 580 million more on long-term unemployed, because it is important to take care of these people that they are not simply allowed to remain in unemployment. We also know that we have huge challenges, because almost every tenth medium-sized and large-sized company in this country does not employ workers and no employees over 55. This is a huge challenge that lies ahead of us, where we release additional resources so that these people get a chance. We will invest in the qualification of apprentices €117 million, because we know, of course, that young people have educational weaknesses that young people today, after fulfilling their compulsory schooling, are often unable to complete training and need additional support. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: And who is to blame for it?]] We will invest 325 million € more in the field of care – also a topic that is at our heart, I think, for all of us. There must also be an indication of where these spaces come from. Due to a restrictive budgetary policy and numerous reforms in the pension system, we have generated a margin of €4.2 billion, which people in this country pay for themselves. Mr Loacker, these are the people who later retire with lower pensions than before, and have fewer possibilities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Yes, this is happening in this country! These €4.2 billion arrive at people, and it is, I think, also important for us that these funds arrive at workers. As proof that what we are doing in Austria is now also internationally recognised, I would like to quote a quote coming from the “day show” from Germany. Florian Blank said there: “What we can learn above all is that Austria has gone a path that focuses on public pension insurance. It is the responsibility of the public system to ensure the standard of living in old age. (...) What appears in comparison with Austria – but also with regard to the past of the German system – is that social security is an incredibly flexible system to ensure CVs, which include family work or unemployment. This is something that other columns (Riester-Rente and operating pension (...)) cannot do. And that's what we can learn from Austria: A public system can be powerful and financeable.” – Quotes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18671	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18692	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! As the very first, I would like to warmly welcome the particularly sympathetic mayor from Lannach, St. Josef, Lieboch and Dobl-Zwaring. [[General condolences.]] I also warmly welcome the group of visitors from Hartberg: some super entrepreneurs who are here with the newspaper “the week”. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Minister Schelling's diagnosis was right from the beginning: We have an expenditure problem and not a revenue problem. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: Of course we have a revenue problem too!]] – Nevertheless, we spend more than we take. But some expenditure is urgently needed today, and I welcome the investment in federal army and police. To ensure the security of citizens must be the first task of the state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also welcome the fact that we are increasing development cooperation and assistance on the ground, which is a command of humanity. Also pleased is the reduction of additional wage costs by € 1 billion from 2017. What is bad, however, are delayed reforms and related costs. Our Minister of Finance rightly advises: It will not continue without structural reforms. For example, it is highly irresponsible that our socialist colleagues in pension reform block, or that both red and greens – after you regularly address me – block the redesign of minimum security in the countries. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Social Democratic!]] They don't want to make a difference between asylumers and Austrians, but there's a difference! [[Abg. Lichtenecker: This is a question of propriety and humanity, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or in the social resort: We spend the highest resources in Europe on the labour market and still have half a million people in unemployment. Now I'm wondering, What happens to all the money? Is it possible to invest in the horror of entrepreneurs? – In fact, the labour inspectorate regularly goes out and comes to bother, above all, SMEs with various rules that are completely foreign to the world. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: How many decades has ÖVP set up the Minister of Economic Affairs?]] That's how a baker told me recently that he put up mouse traps in his flour camp. Then a work inspector actually comes and asks him who controls these mouse traps at what intervals. He said: I'll do that myself in the morning. – No, he can't, first there is a course in pest monitoring. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Another entrepreneur received a juicy penalty because his staff, who came back from the assembly in Germany, did not stay at a hotel again for 30 minutes before he was at home. He went home right now, but has now exceeded working time. – How absurd is that, please? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls for Greens and NEOS.]] In an interview yesterday, our Styrian head of state Schüttenhofer said quite right: The spirit of regulation must be stopped, which drives entrepreneurs to face the anger of anger. And so it is, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Most entrepreneurs actually don't need much from the state. Most also do not need promotions, they simply want to be left alone and work and thus create jobs. So let's leave her, please, just work! [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] The high level of unemployment, of course, is also a burden on the budget. But not only are the costs a problem, but we are slowly getting another problem, namely: the state that wants to regulate everything changes mentality. For example, the generous social benefits to strangers begin to corrupt the morale of their own population. You hear again and again that now people say: Now I'll go to the spa. Or: Now I want to register social benefits for a while. It is indeed true that more and more people want to feel that they want to be worth something to the state, even after others who have not yet paid a single euro are worth so much to the state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] – That’s where disfavor comes up, and then no one needs to wonder that election results are the way they are. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now this government needs to improve its work, and as Reinhold Mitterlehner said correctly, we will not go to the agenda, because we know, ladies and gentlemen, it is also quite different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] – Our left-wing friends and also some media don’t like to hear this, but we experienced the most successful era of economic policy under Chancellor Schüssel with the then constellation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We had an economic growth of over 2 per cent and the best labour market data within the EU with only 4.5 per cent unemployment. Since Federal Chancellor Faymann, unemployment has increased so much that we are soon at 10 percent! [[Abg. Lichtenecker: Including the beginning of the whole hypodebakel in Carinthia!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The net investment rate – very interesting data from the National Bank show this – has broken in by 60 percent over the last 15 years. This is not a current economic weakness, Mr Krainer, but it is a sign that Austria's economic location has lost a lot of attractiveness. And not even the low interest rates in the future, since the banks are not allowed to lend loans to the real economy through the Basel agreements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] For this purpose, this interest rate policy robs the diligent savers of their money and favours debt making and misinvestment. [[Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak.]] The excitement shows: We are in this country just before a camp struggle between the right and the left, which divides society. [[Abg. Lightenecker: That's total nonsense!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scherak.]] In view of this, I ask everyone: If we return to the principles of the social market economy, then we go up again with the economy, then there are jobs again, the people come into employment! Let us strengthen the middle of society! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18900	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e18932	Right, now I'm speechless. We have just experienced the re-start of the government parties. I don't think there's anything to add to it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Our Minister of Finance seems to have a problem with the federal constitution, in particular with Article 9a B-VG, in which Austria is committed to comprehensive national defence. When Darabos or Klug were still Ministers of Defense, they asked themselves: How do you protect the German army from this minister? – Today you have to ask yourself: How to protect the German army from this finance minister? The Minister of Finance does not seem to have any problem with hundreds of millions of euros per year in the jungle of funding and the Fiscus through the endless group taxation of at least half a billion euros of taxes per year. But when it comes to the security of the Republic of Austria, Mr Finanzminister criticises the security package for the German army. I quote: "It was Parliament's wish, it was the government's wish. If anyone had asked me, I would have used the money (...) differently." [[Federal Minister Schelling: At least correctly quoted, Mr Fuchs!]] Mr Finanzminister, this is not about the wishes of Parliament or the government, it is about security in our home country. The population has a right to safety, and that is also a key task of the state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Policy is responsible for the fact that the German army is financially equipped to fulfil its constitutional mandate, in particular military defence. However, it is also about the protection of our soldiers, which must be ensured by the procurement of adequate equipment, Mr Finanzminister. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Mr Finanzminister, as the son of a leader of the militia, you should actually have more understanding of this! [[Federal Minister Schelling: You are the register fox!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak.]] We must also be aware, however, that the € 896 million of fresh money for the national defence for the period 2016 to 2020 can only be a first step in the right direction. Let us not forget that the German army – especially under Darabos and Klug – was broken. These € 896 million are just an infusion to keep the patient federal army alive. The aim, however, must be to gradually increase the national defence budget to 1% of GDP, as our presidential candidate, Hofer, also calls for. The FPÖ will take a very close look at whether a part of the budget will be taken away by the German army in autumn 2016 under a different title. I can still refer to your strategy report 2017-2020. According to the Strategy Report, tax reform 2015/2016 aims at a significant reduction of payroll and income taxpayers, a simplification of Austrian tax law and an increase in the economy by providing additional impetus for growth and employment. And the protection of fair economic operators is defined in the Strategy Report as one of the challenges. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Exactly!]] Mr Finanzminister, you don't believe that any more! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: You are against it!]] In the overall view, the so-called tax reform has not led to any noticeable relief from taxpayers; nor can the many million euros you have invested in applying for this tax reform change change. Tax law has not been simplified either by your unsuccessful tax reform. And given the above-average increase in labour costs and record unemployment, your tax reform has also not given rise to growth and employment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: Are you now a spokesperson?]] And what you, Minister of Finance, consider to be the protection of the fair economic operators is in fact a plantation of entrepreneurs with a register, single recording and investor sharing obligation, which one could probably no longer have been able to regulate more complicatedly. It is not for nothing that the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, meant this week: Eight years of no leadership, eight years of no serious reform, four load packs for the population. – Unfortunately, the President of the Chamber of Commerce is right. [[Abg. Loacker: And negotiate!]] Moreover, the Federal Financial Framework Act is incomplete: For example, the additional expenditure on the wave of migrants is only taken into account by 2017 and one pretends that the problem would simply disappear. And there is a structural gap of €550 million for the teachers' salaries in 2016, which is simply ignored. Mr Finanzminister, this strategy report on the BFRG is actually a fairy tale report, and the counter-financing of your tax reform is one of these fairy tales.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19089	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19110	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, it is an interesting statement of the ÖVP's colleagues: for decades, the ÖVP has been presenting the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mrs. Nachbaur's incitement of economic policy, the representatives of the ÖVP's frenetically – one thing you have to say is that you really have a high degree of suffering. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kogler: And also the motto: We are all meated!]] Back to our budget, to the federal financial framework of the next years: If you are talking about the budget and the budgets of the next few years, of course you have to focus first on what the big challenges are. The major challenges we face in Austria and also in Europe are, of course, the rising unemployment, the loss of innovation in the knowledge and economic location, but of course climate change and its consequences. In this respect, these aspects should be looked at and taken into account when creating the budget in this form. But first of all to the other area, namely the area of revenue: Mr Tamandl has today highlighted the reduction in additional labour costs in stages, and now at the beginning of the year by €1 billion. – Yes, Mrs Colleague, this is an important step, only, I am convinced that it is too little. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Was to be expected!]] – We have an outdated tax system, the tax structure is to be changed. I'm glad you're in my opinion, too, Minister. – Well, you also say: [[Federal Minister Schelling: Exactly, but not in your direction!]] High wage costs, we must achieve a reduction in additional labour costs. At the same time, we have environmental pollution and pollution, which is far too favourable in this form, and the assets are unevenly distributed. So it has long been time to implement a revenue-neutral, social and environmental tax reform, thus actually achieving a reduction in low and medium incomes and thus also stimulating jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second area, of course, is a fair tax system in the sense that responsible economies of small and medium-sized enterprises are rewarded and not the big corporations such as Amazon, Google, Starbucks who are looking for and taking advantage of every strategy to avoid taxes. This is exactly where attention needs to be paid. The Federal Financial Framework also has positive developments. Yes, for example, €500 million is intended for the integration of asylum seekers; a good step, a necessary step, no question. Nevertheless, it will be clear that these funds need to be allocated much longer-term. This will then also be shown at the next budgets, but you also have to think about it now. The next question concerns development cooperation and development cooperation. We know that Austria is far away, the 0.7 percent target is far away. Now there are resources, but the question will be what these resources are actually used for. How does the strategy look? Which countries will actually be the focus of funding in this form? How is poverty actually combated? – All of this will be concrete questions that we will discuss more closely next week in the budget hearing. It is certainly also true that the labour market requires much more resources, as is the case for modern infrastructure – for the development of fast data transmission networks, but of course also for public transport. As Mr Vogl referred to the extension of the Pyrnbahn: Yes, no question, it cannot be that the connection between Graz, the second largest city, and Linz, the third largest city, is so miserable; there must also be priorities in this regard. But, Minister, there are indeed serious shortcomings in the areas of investment in the future: that is education, which is especially the universities. The 2 percent target for tertiary education by 2020 is never reached in this form. And one thing is clear: The very central area of a knowledge society, basic research, is starved with this federal financial framework. That can't be in this form! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the same is true in the field of research, here research and innovation, an absolute standstill, no dynamic. We know that today's research is tomorrow's jobs, and that's where investment is needed. The big goal of becoming a leader of innovation, which the Federal Government decided years ago, is to continue every year. Therefore, there will also be a great effort in this regard to actually move forward. Environmental and climate protection is something that is so low in this form that it is de facto disgraceful and does not comply with the decisions of Paris. There is more to it, because these are important contributions to climate change and environmental protection, but of course also interesting, exciting and future-oriented jobs. No question, we need a smart, responsible budget. We believe that there is still a massive need for improvement in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19192	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19213	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Nachbaur has fled for safety reasons, since she probably already suspected that she will receive several replicas on this speech. I believe that if they, as members of the ÖVP, are categorically out there and are excited that entrepreneurs are being harassed by the labour inspectorate, then I must tell you that such creativity as evaluation of mental stress at work and such things have always been decided with ÖVP votes. If the wage calculation becomes even more complicated every year, this has always been decided with ÖVP votes for 30 years. If we now make a wage and social dumping law, because we always have to have all the documents on each site, then this is always decided with ÖVP votes be. The bureaucracy of the companies, you do that you should sit in the empty rows! Mr Vogl tried to make the listeners aware that the “Tagesschau” had praised the Austrian pension system. In fact, this was Mr Florian Blank from the trade union-related Institute for Social Security Systems. He probably inquired about what he was supposed to say before with colleagues Vogl. If you want to know what the Germans really say about the Austrian pension system, you can look into the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, which writes: Austria is a dangerous pension model. Now to the financial framework: What we are being presented here is the result of what the Minister of Finance himself would call a capable figure-feng Shui. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] You just turned the numbers down until you felt comfortable until it looked good. Three examples: Example one, the pensions: It is alleged that the figures are so encouraging that we hear media jubilation, but in reality it is just that you now expect lower inflation and the pension increase always depends on the inflation rate. Of course, with lower inflation, pensions do not rise so strongly, and I do not have that high expenditure. However, we see how many percent of the total expenditure of the pension block is being spent. This was 23.4 percent at government start-up and will be 28.5 percent according to your 2020 financial framework. You get out of the row, and you don't have anything to do with it. What is interestingly not in it with pensions is this cruel bank-austria deal, which has been tied in there. There must be an additional €730 million in revenue somewhere, but the government itself obviously does not believe that this holds and must have doubts. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] And that's why, according to the principle of caution, you didn't take it in, because it wasn't legally all right, which your government fabricated. Second example: labour market financing. As a result, so-called variable expenditure is rising by 12 percent, fixed expenditure is falling by 3.3 percent. That is, in good German, what we spend on the unemployed, namely unemployment benefit and emergency aid, is increasing. And what we're doing for reintegration, for qualification, that's sinking. With 60 000 more unemployed from 2015 to 2020, this clearly means that we spend less money on the individual unemployed to qualify the unemployed. What is not done – that has already been discussed –: Transparency database. There's nothing coming! In the social institutions, the left hand does not know what the right is doing. Also, the co-existence of emergency aid and minimum security, which the Court of Auditors has often criticised, is not affected. Third point: Families. If you look into your numbers, then the expenses for family benefits go down. This has made me stupid, because the family aid is being increased. What is actually the case is that the reserve fund does not pay any more to the over-indebted FLAF, which seems to reduce expenditure. You just leave the FLAF in debt. Now you have less expenditure on family benefits. This is what you feel about the dynamics in the social sector. issues that run you completely out of the row; you have only visually turned a little. They have said themselves – and You have rightly said –: This country has an expenditure problem, not a revenue problem. If you now represent a structural or as always beautifully coloured zero deficit or almost 0.5 percent deficit, then only because the revenue thus increases because the wage tax will rise by more than 21 percent from 2016 to 2020. We have an expenditure problem, but revenue is increasing much more, because your government is expressing taxpayers like a lemon until the last drop comes out. And that would really not be necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19310	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19332	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Watch the visitor gallery and in front of the TV sets! With regard to the Federal Financial Framework Act, which is currently under discussion, we know that it is actually a declaration of intent for the next four years, because it does not have to be handled. In the event of substantial changes, of course, you can change the figures at any time, Mr Minister. And that's why I said that very loud. I liked that you also responded to my confession immediately, a little thin-skinned, but I will then prove that approaches are inside that do not allow it, as you have said, that even by 2060 was planned here. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Well, yes!]] I would be happy if we had 2020 on a planned foundation. The essential approach or development, if we want to call it positive, is the optimal interest rate, because instead of these €6.8 billion interest, we actually have to pay €4 billion interest. The € 800 million, which have been saved by the more favourable design in pension benefits, are also positive. Today’s “press” – I may quote – is entitled “financing the standstill and the needs of different client groups”. There are already substantial people in this country who do not want to see and represent this whole development and planning as positively as the government is trying to do. I don't want to comment here when someone criticizes his own work like that. Mr Loacker just asked: Who has been on the row for the last decades, please? - That's the greatest thing. And that is why I said that the word “praying” is correct, for that is how I have seen it. I think it is also fair to quote and discuss the facts. But the essential thing that the press writes today is that there will be much too little investment in education, in research, in schools, in colleges. An example: Mr Vogl said that 4,000 new jobs were in the administration. – This is exactly the wrong way! Instead of saving there in the case of double-tracks, instead of making conversions, using people more qualified, creating new planning sites – I do not understand that here comes the approval of the ÖVP Economic Party, which is always talking about attracting the Austrian economic location, and then agrees to such measures. Similarly, more resources go to labour market management. – That means more resources in the administration of the unemployed. I think that's exactly the wrong way. The money would have to flow into SMEs for new jobs, into regional enterprises, into families. Another example – I already mentioned it in the morning, but this is true of my colleague, Minister for Agriculture: Due to the last reduction in diesel refund and the mother cow premium, 100 million € are missing in rural areas. This €100 million is not lacking the farmers directly, but indirectly the agricultural machinery industry and the whole feed industry. There's no money on the spot. That's the money that's going to be effective that packs the companies away. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On the approaches, on the planning approaches – therefore, my call before: Yes, if you budget the refugee theme with €1.7 billion only until 2017, I don't know who thinks so positively here and says after 2018 we don't have this budget approach anymore. Or, for example, these € 550 million already quoted, which are missing and uncovered by the teachers' budgets and are likely to enter and be hidden in the supplementary budget. The crucial thing – I have said it today – is: The problem of this government is that the reforms announced never take place, namely the aggregation of social security funds, the reduction of this excessive bureaucracy. And that's why this panel. [[pointing to a panel placed in front of him on the speaker’s desk, on which Bavaria is compared to Upper Austria]] There is a difference to Germany by these Schröder measures, which were taken at the time in real time with the “Agenda 2010” and are now bearing fruit. Or the comparison Upper Austria – Bavaria: Bavaria seven times, nine times the population of Upper Austria, but instead of 15 districts only seven districts and instead of 56 country members 153. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: There's 187!]] These are facts. We don't need to say anything about that. That speaks for itself. In conclusion: For the McKinsey study presented recently, which shows the great opportunities of Austria when these reforms are implemented by the economy, supported by politics, it is to be said: Then we can focus on this Austria. Then this Austria can really become the often quoted model country for Europe, perhaps even for the whole world, when ethics and morality are put at the centre again and the trade and economic cycles are regionalized instead of outsourced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19393	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Schelling, has spoken again. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19415	Mr President. High house! I have to make some clarifications. Mr Fuchs, I do not know what your father was doing, but that the federal constitution is being respected is beyond doubt. They say they broke the federal army. Then – I think you're a spokesperson now; so you used to be something else, I think, now you're an interlocutor – you should have known that between 2011 and 2014 the German army had invested 1 billion €. 1 billion euros! And that’s what you call “challenge-saving. ” You can now criticize the wrong investment, but please don't address this accusation to me! The second is: I obviously misunderstanded you by saying that protecting the fair is not a goal. Then I misunderstandingd you. But it turned out here that you said it could not be a goal to write into the strategy report to protect the fairs. Since you blame me for having a problem with the Constitution, I say to you: You have a problem with the Constitutional Court, because you can read the registers quoted by you in the knowledge of the Constitutional Court. This one has a slightly different opinion than you do. He considers them to be proportionate and in order. And that's why it's quite okay. Mr Loacker, no one has disputed that although pensions have been dampened, they continue to rise by €3 billion. This is one of my concerns that we can dampen them, but they don't really get where they have to go. That is why the report also says that this is not a reduction, but that it will actually be a three-billion-€ increase over the financial framework. The question you have referred to is, where the bank Austria deal arrives: of course, at the pension insurance institution, at the time when it is paid. And that's why it has nothing to do with it. I can't budget something that I don't know when it actually comes. I ask you again – perhaps have You don't get it either –: With the transparency database, the first step is taken, the first two fields are supplied to 100 percent of all countries. We'll evaluate this. I would like to tell you whether the data is suitable for a better control of the promotions in the future or not. But if you do not take the first step, you will not be able to reach the goal either. Therefore, this first step is more important to me than the criticism that nothing has happened in the transparency database. Therefore, I believe it is important that we also take note that we are moving there step by step. Wait at the end of the day for how far we have come! Then it is quite right to repeat your criticism.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19473	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19494	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020. – It is a shame that Mrs. Rebaur is not here now. I think she's right. The burden and the provisions for our companies are enormous, which are urgently changed. But, Mrs Nachbaur, when you are back, perhaps you remind your party colleagues and also Mr Finanzminister that these burdens on our domestic and small companies should be abolished – urgently! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It's a bit funny already: On Tuesday the Council of Ministers was the Council of Ministers, and on the same day the financial framework will be presented. Prior to this, the Minister of Finance had still been criticised. The Federal Chancellor referred to particular priorities such as security, police, national defence and the labour market. Mr Vice-Chanzler also spoke of a security policy measure and a policy that would require additional funding. It had been invested approximately a billion euros in science and research, said Mr Vice-Chancellor. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a large fraction in this financial framework by 2020 are refugees and integration. This financial framework is marked by the events of recent months and recent times. The funds for labour market policy have also been significantly increased. The question is: For whom? The resources for the special pot for integration, which are taken into account here, would be urgently needed for our safety, for our health, for our infrastructure, for our pensions, for our farmers, for our farms and, above all, for our families. That would be a real financial framework for the right future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19531	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with the Government document 1096 of the Supplements to the Budget Committee. [[18:33:24]] 14. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1056, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Act on the manufacture and placing on the market of tobacco products and the advertising of tobacco products and non-smoking protection (Tabak Act) and the Federal Act establishing the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety GmbH and establishing the Federal Office for Food Safety and the Federal Office for Safety in Health (GESG) (1088 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19567	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19594	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear spectators at home! First of all, I can warmly welcome the group of visitors from Hollabrunn here in the Hohe Haus. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] Yes, we write day three after the Federal Presidential election, and I have to say unfortunately, we arrived in reality: Unfortunately, the three old system parties black, red and green have not learned anything from the election Sunday. We are discussing today the amendment of the Tobacco Act. I have it here with 61 pages of new legislative text. [[keeping a copy of the Tobacco Act in height]] – So much for citizens and red tape. Maybe just a short while to remember, I think I have to say it quite clearly: The Austrians have now completely removed their noses. I would like to stress this once again, which was clearly evident on Sunday. The Austrians have enough of this surveillance state, of this ban culture, of this bureaucracy madness, of this control system of the state. The Austrians finally want more space. Above all, in Austria we have enough of the The destruction of small businesses and the deliberate destruction of jobs, which this tobacco law will bring back. What do the Austrians want? – The Austrians want more freedom, more self-determination. The Austrians want to be able to decide for themselves how they live their lives, how they work business. I say it very clearly once again: The Austrians also no longer want to be suppressed by foreign politicians. I'm going to do what this tobacco law has to do with. In short, the facts: We are talking here about TPD II, amendment of the Tobacco Act. This is actually an EU directive that, as usual, is overcrowded by the Austrian Federal Government, by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to the detriment of the population and to the detriment of the economy. In my opinion, the interesting thing about it or just the negligent is the following: The Minister has managed to pack in this law the classic cigarette, the e-cigarette, the so-called steaming, and the chewing tobacco. It puts everything on one level; this is basically wrong once in a while. This shows a number of studies. Perhaps very briefly on the statement, Mrs Minister – you know, we discussed it in committee for a longer time –: There is still no scientific evidence – Mr. Rasinger knows that in reality – that steams, i.e. the e-cigarette, are dangerous to health. She certainly has nothing to do with passive smoking. Similar studies are available on the chewing tobacco, the famous snus. This is now also banned in Austria, and there are no scientific studies to identify it with the classic cigarette. We now have around 250 000 steamers in Austria, as it is so beautiful. You also have to say quite clearly, the changeover to the e-cigarette is an important step for many smokers to live healthier. The success rate for the changeover is 50 percent, unlike products from the pharmacy, where the success rate is 2 to 3 percent. Of course, one can also assume that – that will be the real background, why all this is put into a law – that the woman ministers do not want to risk the 1.7 billion € tax revenue from the tobacco tax and therefore prefer to buy that people are kept off the e-steam. Or the pharmaceutical industry wants to make a little bit more or less of a sandwich. Also interesting, but very worrying – I find that negligent –: In this law, they prohibit Austrian companies from trading these products, both nationally and internationally. Of course, that doesn't make any sense when you know that the whole world is shopping on the Internet. The Austrians will also continue to buy these products, but then abroad without paying taxes in Austria. You have now introduced the shock pictures, but there are no longer any information on ingredients as regards tar. They make an advertising ban, sponsoring ban, sales ban for Trafikants and e-dealers, a cigarette automatic reduction, a profit margin reduction for Trafikants from 18 to 13 percent. It must be said that almost 30 years ago we had 11 000 Trafikants, now there are 2 600 Trafikants. In my opinion, this is another attack on local services. They have managed to eliminate the local supply more or less at the post office. And you'll probably make it even in the Trafikanen area if you continue like this. There are packs regulations, expensive data collections, applications for approval, and, and, in the future, you will have the opportunity to adopt a regulation beyond Parliament which we are no longer allowed to vote in favour of. I find the worst – and this is my huge accusation: In these 61 pages it is not a word of youth protection – not a word, not a sentence! You would have found a basis with us liberals without a doubt when it comes to protecting young people, but what you are doing is you want to prescribe to the Austrians, adult people how they have their lives to live. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In my opinion, this war against smokers you are waging here is more or less a war of faith. I think that's the wrong way. You do exactly what you are currently blaming us again and again, you actually split society into smokers and non-smokers. This is certainly the whole, very wrong way. What will we do to the liberals? – We will form a front line against this dictatorship – and there are the first initiatives – both from smokers, Trafikans, e-cigarette dealers and from gastronists who suffer very much from these developments. We will first and foremost take the ÖVP into a duty, because the same is the case, by the way, in the registration fee obligation between clubs and gastronists, in which you play people against each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I would like to mention that we here in Parliament have 14 Members who are in the Economic Union – in addition to two from the red side, Mr Matznetter is not here – who always speak great for the economy and the entrepreneurs, when they are in the Chamber of Commerce or the Economics Association, and here we decide exactly those laws that are very damaging to the economy. We will also introduce something like an electronic prangler, with the help of which companies in Austria can also read these names and see how you vote here in Parliament and what you tell outside. I can only mention that if a trade unionist here in Parliament voted for the 60-hour week that they would normally throw him out at the trade union. Members of the Economic and Social Committee may, however, continue to make laws against the economy here in Parliament, and this has to stop at some point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just a moment to finish: We liberals clearly support the freedom of choice of adult citizens here in Austria and an active economic policy for small and medium-sized enterprises. Because of this, I can show a flag here for entrepreneurs and for freedom in Austria. [[the speaker places a magazine entitled “Show Flag” and the picture Norbert Hofers on the speaker’s desk]] In this sense, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19746	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Worm is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19795	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19818	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Worm, these statements, in which you have just spoken of a war of faith, are seamlessly included in the debate in the Health Committee. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Yes!]] In the Health Committee you have all compared us with the so-called Islamic State. Today it continues, today is the talk of electronic prager. I believe that the only one who is on the move here, so to speak, as a walker of the tobacco industry, has been you today. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Freedom! We're called Freedom Party! Freedom of choice!]] You are always talking about the economy, but one word, namely responsibility, has not personally come to your lips today. They know that in Austria, a person dies every hour from the consequences of smoking. They know that every eight hours a person dies from the consequences of passive smoking. Now there are two ways in which policy can react. There is the way you would propose as a hiking preacher in the tobacco industry, namely to say that there is nothing to do, that there should be no directives, that everyone should do it the way he wants and that we should stand out completely. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Freedom!]] The second way, however, is to say: As a politician, we also have a responsibility! Yes, it is also left to every human being himself in the future whether he wants to smoke or not, whether he quits or how he deals with his life, but as politics we also have the responsibility to support the people who want to quit smoking. We also have the responsibility to control the pollutants, the ingredients of cigarettes. And above all, we have the responsibility to inform and point out the risks. Nothing to do is simply cowardly and not a solution to this question. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: No word to protect young people!]] It is also our task in policy to take measures so that people who want to quit smoking can also have the opportunity to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly what we are doing here in Parliament today with the implementation of the Tobacco Products Directive in Austrian law, namely to say: Let's look at the ingredients and additives! I think it's crazy – and you can't approve of it personally – that there is vitamin addition on cigarette packaging. Vitamins – what does that suggest? These are things, as do Menthol, with which one might still certify a health promotion. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Not even the tar content is indicated! Have you read it?- Oh, my God!]] I believe it is very important that we also work with a label in the area of labelling, that we point to the dangers that the telephone number for smoking weaning is also known, that we also use shock images. Finally, all of us here should not be accused that we are not doing everything we can to inform the population. The possibility to decide whether or not to smoke has continued to be open to every person in Austria. But it is our duty to do everything in politics, so that the information is available and we also support the people who want to quit smoking. I believe that this is a very important aspect of health policy – you have always talked about economic policy. Finally, I should like to make one more request, in which we adopt the text of the provisions of the directive, so that we can prevent possible ambiguities in interpretation and transposition: [[Quoted print version removed]] This legal text is a bit long. We did this properly. Mr President, I hope you can confirm this. [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: He read!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would point out once again that I believe that the path taken today is a very good one. I can really ask all of you to agree, because, as I said: The freedom of the human being remains, but it is above all a responsibility of the policy that we, I believe, should all together.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e19995	The amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Kucher, is sufficiently supported, has been presented completely correctly and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20072	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20093	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As Mr Kucher has said, the whole 60 pages that Mr Wurm showed you earlier reads. This law is really incredible. It is also necessary to look at the pace in which this federal government has implemented this tobacco product directive. They have known for two years that this has to be implemented, and now is the last meeting time in which we can bring it under the umbrella and subject in due time. Amendments are still being tabled at the last minute. The assessment period was shortened to 26 days, 511 opinions arrived in the short time, and at the Committee meeting it was not even clear on which packaging side the warnings should actually be given, because this was so hudrudri. One example is the packaging of tobacco products. In future, these may only have cylinder shape, square shape or bag shape. This not only prohibits bullets or pyramid-shaped packaging, it is now also these Round Corners – you know the rounded corners – the Curved Boxes and the Slide Boxes. Why? - No one knows. It's just this really cool law you've fabricated. The law also prescribes font size and font of the warnings and requires that the font “Helvetika” – however with K –, “Helvetika” with K does not exist among all the tens of thousands of fonts that exist. That's what you correctly write with C. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] But now I come to the real problem of this law. This law can be fatal for your small business. [[The speaker put a table on the speaker’s desk, saying: “This law can be fatal to its small business. ”]] The law will subject all e-cigarettes and their liquids, whether they contain nicotine or not, to this tobacco law, i.e. non-tabak products. Now hundreds of devices and hundreds of liquids that produce small businesses are subject to this law. This means that small enterprises are deprived of the business base in different ways. Firstly, Mr Worm has already done so, the shipping trade for these products is prohibited. They've been working in the transit trade for many years, and now the legislator comes and says: End of the debate, you're not gonna do that anymore! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Only in Austria, my colleague!]] In this way, we also conduct European goods traffic ad absurdum, apart from the fact that the Austrian customer, who is consumed and used to order it online, will continue to order it online, only not in Austria but abroad. This is economic policy, as this federal government does. This is how jobs are destroyed in this country. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Peter Worm.]] The second is the authorisation procedure. Each of these electronic steam devices and any liquid must always be approved nationally. The most important element such an e-cigarette is the battery. When you put a new device on the market, you must also have this battery approved by a health authority every time. That's so wrong with this law. This does not apply to the whole of Europe, but if you have an authorisation in a country, it applies there, and you have to apply for it separately in each country again. The Committee has been argued that this is about the protection of young people. We must not seduce young people into smoking. If that were your concern, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, you would have introduced a ban on smoking up to 18 years. That would've been youth protection. You don't have that. Austria is still a smoking paradise where you can buy Tschick at the age of 16; you can't do that in other countries. Other countries also do not shave tobacco products and non-taboo products over a comb as you have fabricated it. In the United Kingdom, the Traficant must draw the attention of cigarette customers to the fact that, as an alternative, there are e-cigarettes, which are 90 percent less harmful. In Austria, you have now turned off the business base of this e-cigarette industry, and have helped you only the large, fat tobacco companies that are driven by the small competition. That's what you've done now: They helped the Group and damaged the small company.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20175	Mr Loacker, did you not want to make an amendment? [[Abg. Loacker: I read!]] – Haven You read it? [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: He did it at the beginning!]] I'm sorry, then I was just working on the change in the Croquis. Thank you. In this case, and since this is confirmed by my fellow readers, I confirm the proper submission, and that is why the request is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20247	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20268	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Somehow I don't feel well in the debate as a doctor at all, I have to say that quite honestly – I'm kind of upset, but a feeling may be acceptable to me –: I am in some kind of small business or – God knows what – war of faith debate. If there is a foreign policy in the first sentence of Mr Worm, I must ask him: Do you realize that for 50 years, we've been arguing about how to reduce the proportion of smokers? That is the crucial point. There's a lot to argue about, but don't say it's not world-wide. If after years a little bit moves and you make the inscription a little bigger – now it's 65 percent – then that's exactly what you're demanding, that's a step towards self-reliance, because if someone takes control of something, at least he can't say he wasn't warned. As a doctor, it always surprises me – yesterday in the ordination – how people change over time. If we assume that eleven-year-olds – this is not an assumption – and 15-year-olds already smoke massively: Why should I change a law to 18 years if not even the Youth Protection Act, which is country matter, is respected? [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That is exactly what you want to do: to take measures so that eleven-year-olds do not smoke anymore!]] [[Abg. Korun: Let him...!]] – Mr Worm, what kind of picture do you give if you are advocating a law that actually demands a little more self-reliance, and just a little more, that's not a big-style law? On the subject of Prohibition Law, I call you other democracies. In the United States, smoking is prohibited from 21 years of age. [[Abg. Lugar: Until 21!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Until 21!]] This is a law that has now prevented a governor – I have forgotten the state – because he has refused to sign the already agreed law that tobacco goods can only be bought from 21 years of age. The trend in the USA is not 18 years, but 21 years. Why? – There, the tobacco industry does not even dare to make a mosquito because they know exactly that they are accused by the consumer protectionists. But I wanted to come back to my ordination. Again and again – last yesterday – it shakes me when a patient with lung metastases, a severe lung cancer says to me: Doctor, I don't want to die. Why did I start it? Why didn't anyone talk to me when I was little and young? Why did I start? That's why I'm moving as a doctor, moving, I think, most doctors, so they're asking: Why do we watch when avoidable diseases arise? There are 14,000 premature dead. You are in the Health Committee, I think that is a certain responsibility that you have. And I think it should've talked to you around here. Smoking is the biggest single damage that we know in health. That's already Robert Kennedy three months before he was shot, because he was Minister of Health, saying it's the biggest single factor – and it hasn't changed at all. The attitude of most European countries has changed. In England you will soon be able to buy only more toxic green packages – under the Budle – as well as in Australia. In France you think about whether you can no longer smoke in the car. I think there is a principle border over which we should agree across all borders. It is said that children should not smoke and that people who smoke should not bother others with smoking. Much of this, however, is questioning you; and I would really like us to think that, across fractions, we may think more medically that we might think as much as Mrs. Minister or I do. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But she is a pediatrician!]] We're doctors, and it hurts us every time we have to tell someone: Unfortunately, it was too late; 40 years ago you should have done that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20387	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20409	High house! Mr Rasinger said something interesting: that for 50 years people have been trying to get used to smoking, with moderate success – and I think we both agree. The reason why this doesn't work is a very simple one, because smoking makes addictive and because it's incredibly difficult to get rid of it. If we are talking about the cancer disease that asked why he did not stop at that time and is now shortly before death, and that affects 14 000 people, then it is recognized that this is really a problem. There is now an opportunity to fight this problem effectively, which is evidenced. There are a lot of cases that show us how we can effectively used to smoking people after all. And what happens? – One forbids this possibility. Prohibiting these people the possibility to choose this alternative by throwing them all possible pitfalls in front of their feet to prevent them from switching. In reality, the failed assistance is. [[Abg. Maurer: Arg!]] It's a neglected help if we make it difficult for people to become an e-damper, to use the e-cigarette. I even got rid of the cigar with such an e-damp device, and I can tell you one In the beginning you might still use nicotine, but with time you don't need it at all; then at some point you leave it completely away. [[New call for tender Maurer]] That's the point. In Germany, there are already 3 million people who benefit from this device, and many of them have only had positive experiences. If you look at the health aspects, you can see that you in fact inhale a substance – I wrote it down – called propylene glycol. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Sounds very healthy!]] This substance is a moisturizer used in almost all foods. It is approved and is widely used. This fabric has also been used for 40 years in all fog machines used in theatres, discotheques and other places. That is, you have long-term experiences and you know that this substance is absolutely harmless. They then say that there are still fragrances coming in: Yes, but we use the same fragrances in room lamps, in perfumes and in all kinds of things, and there they are inhaled. They say: The problem is breathing in, because everything that is inhaled is dangerous or potentially dangerous! – I can only tell you one thing: If you go to the hospital – and you will probably do that more often – you will also breathe in liquids there. There are so-called air washers that provide sufficient humidity in the air conditioning, and these are the biggest dirt slides you can imagine. I know what I'm talking about because I took care of such plants when I was still self-employed. I know what it looks like there. You got fingerdick in the mold and that in hospitals. That's what it looks like. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] That means: When it comes to controlling everything that is inhaled – and we are not talking about road transport, industrial exhausts and so on – we must strictly control it, then we are starting with the really dangerous things! But it is about getting used to smoking with a device and not inhaling 4,000 substances. 4000 substances breathe when you smoke, and many of them prove to be carcinogenic! We know the long-term consequences of smoking. There is an alternative, namely the e-damp device, and then this e-damp device is thrown a punch in front of the feet! I can only assume that the tobacco industry is behind it, because these are the only ones who have an interest in people not to stop smoking but to continue smoking. You can't be interested in it! Explain to me why you're doing this? Why do you use these e-damp devices? They will kill the small businesses that successfully market it, so to speak, instead of promoting the development of these e-damp devices in the way it is promoted. These devices can actually save lives. E-damp can save life, and there's enough studies to do that. That's why: Give people the opportunity to get to such a device legally! You can get them across the Internet from anywhere. Only then do we have the problem again that one does not know how the liquids are composed and how the e-damp device is generally built. There can be problems. That's why: Put that out of the tobacco law again! There's nothing lost, it's not a tobacco product. That doesn't even burn anything. The temperature in this e-damp device is a maximum of 70 degrees. In this device does not even evaporate water, so low is the temperature. There is a single study that has shown that alleged harmful substances occur. However, it was subsequently found that this e-damp device was overheated and operated at a much too high temperature. In all other studies – and there are now almost 100 – it has been shown that e-dampf has virtually no health side effects, except when used with nicotine. In that case, of course, nicotine is the problem, but in pure form and not in the cigarette. It may also be that additives are used that are not well and not tested, but we do not want to assume that now. Think about it again, and allow the switch to e-damp devices, because they save lives! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20472	Next, Mrs. Dr. Mückstein is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20494	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear listeners! To this war of faith: I actually think we should have a little more ability to weigh goods here in the House. It is, of course, a weighting of goods between self-determination and a reasonable health policy measure, but I think there is a great deal about the need to reduce smoking, to stop smoking as far as possible. Smoking should become uncool, especially for children and young people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] That's the subject, and I'll explain to you right now why. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Yes, please!]] They say that this has nothing to do with the protection of young people. This may have something to do with the protection of young people, because it is about raising awareness and that the delivery of e-cigarettes is not so unregulated that not everyone and everyone can easily get e-cigarettes when it becomes a trend. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Internet!]] We know that Austria has a big problem with young people who are vulnerable to search and with smoking boys and girls. Especially for girls, there is a problem, 29 percent of Austrian girls smoke until 19 years. We also know – I think this study is from England – that 6 per cent of the ten to eleven-year-olds are steaming and that more and more young people are reluctant to smoke e-cigarettes and make them more. The use of e-cigarettes for substitution is only a very small part. It is now about steaming, which can be used to imitate smoking and is, so to speak, a substitute for smoking, but also contains harmful substances or animated to smoke. There is also, in part, a connection with the kiffen, as one knows from England. This should not be made so easily accessible to young people in particular. I think that can be left at the bottom of the facts. There you should argue objectively. It is also very important for me to say that I note a peak in your choice of words from day to day or from session to meeting. This choice of words is totally inappropriate for such a topic. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is an absolutely aggressive increase in a matter that was actually about serving as an adult model for children and young people and taking appropriate measures to prevent children and young people from getting too easily to the cigarette. That is why we will not, of course, agree with Mr Worm's request.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20562	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20583	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dissuasive images and warnings on cigarette packs: The EU requires that this EU Directive be adopted by 20. On May 20, 2016, it must be transposed into national law. May 2017 provide health warnings on all tobacco products. Producers of tobacco products must also provide regular reports on the ingredients. That's all right. Technical control is carried out by the Agency for Health and Nutritional Safety AGES. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in practice it looks like: The EU requires something to be implemented by the Federal Government. Our Federal Government does this immediately and says what is meant by regulations and foresights: Can it be a little more? Dr. Rasinger, we all know that smoking is not healthy. The man, the citizen, the host, however, has the nose full of the constant forearm. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, an economic issue is also linked to this: What about the Trafikants and Trafikants? Whether to starve all of them The freedom of choice, whether someone is smoking or not, must be preserved. We know it's not healthy, Dr. Rasinger, but man has to decide for himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20616	Next, Mr Huainigg is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20638	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Smoking endangers health, that's right. Because of my disability and illness, I was in the hospital at the lung station and met many people who needed a breathing device because of their smoke. I was also told that my great advantage is that I never smoked. I am also decided against smoking and greet the new anti-smoking campaign with the images of deterrence on the cigarette packs. I'm very upset by just a series of deterrent images, and that's where I'm vehemently opposed. There you can see a wheelchair driver sitting lethargic in the wheelchair and no longer approachable, or a man who is in bed with breathing equipment, and under it is: Smoking causes disability. That's something that doesn't work at all. Disability as a deterrent is counterproductive. Disabled people are fighting for recognition, for equal opportunities in society, and the UN Convention is also calling for the positive, the skills and not the deficits to be presented. Such deterrence campaigns are bad for inclusion in society. In “Die Zeit” a wheelchair driver also wrote, Christiane Link, that she saw a poster in Germany and enjoyed the fact that a disabled person is in the wheelchair in advertising. She's excitedly rolled down, and below it's said: He had a seat, and now he has to sit down. That too was a campaign, in the case of alcohol, but: Disability as a deterrent is not what we want. That is why a resolution is also being adopted calling on the Minister of Health to provide opinion and awareness to the European Commission, so that such advertising can be omitted in the future and resolved in advance with the European Disability Forum. The presentation of people with disabilities is a matter of human dignity, and as you know, I am in favour of the fact that human dignity is finally enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20686	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Oberhauser spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20707	Madam President. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! We have noted more than what Franz-Joseph Huainigg said as the last opinion. You know, we told you: This is a requirement that we have received from the EU. However, we will urge the EU Commission to avoid using the disabled as a shock because it does not benefit in this way, nor does it bring any benefit. On the contrary, it brings a whole group of people into a situation in which we do not want them. In other words, I promise you that we will do exactly that in the Commission, because I do not think that does anything, but that it hurts a group, and I do not want to do so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the issue of tobacco law: Many have already said that the discussion we have held in committee is clearly continuing. Sometimes it is not quite certain whether it is the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs or the Committee on Health in which it is debated. This has also been very clearly reflected in the speeches today. I think, as a health politician and politician, you can sometimes be a fun brake. I say this very consciously, because many things seem to someone who looks at it from the outside, as bemoaning or unpleasant. But this is, as I have said, a part to play in avoiding such stories as Erwin Rasinger told them. People say, Why did I start, why didn't anyone bother me to start smoking? – We have a responsibility towards these things, that is why we are doing these things. If one has looked at the amendment tabled by Mr Kucher to meticulously, one can see that in this amendment there are very few health policy issues inside, but many economic and technical things: the question of how many pieces may be inside; the question of the ban on sponsoring, which you have also referred to. There has always been a ban on sponsoring. There is an advertising ban on tobacco products, and there is also a sponsorship ban on tobacco products. That means, it's nothing new what we're doing here. It is a technical novel with many aspects. They've called it Youth Protection. You know better, but I'll tell you again: Youth protection is a matter of country law. There are a lot of things we can wish for, and so do we. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] You will hear the discussions that Mrs Karmasin has led to various questions. Do we want to raise the selling age for tobacco products or not? – The countries say: This is our business, our legislation. We have managed to bring animal welfare into the constitution. We should think about whether we may succeed in bringing the protection of young people into the Constitution. Then we would have arranged many of these things that you are addressing in these 61 pages. Unfortunately, I can't. To clarify the question of e-cigarettes: That sounds like you would have completely forbidden the steaming of e-cigarettes in Austria. No, we put them like tobacco, we have banned the shipping trade, for the simple reason that it is not detectable in the dispatch of youth protection. [[Abg. Lugar: Why?- Oh, my God!]] You can still buy it quite normally in the shops, you can buy it in the trafik. That means if someone wants to avoid it, he can. We will probably be talking about the harmfulness of e-cigarettes, steams and liquids, just as we are now talking about tobacco, for twenty years, if not decades, later. [[Abg. Lugar: This is stupid!]] As you know, tobacco was once something that was used very restrictively medically. He was then widely used as a addictive and profitable instrument. You know how difficult it is to stop. As I said, we decided to say: We put everything that smokes on the question. Snus is also banned throughout Europe. That's only allowed in Sweden, as you know. Many who drive to Sweden are asked to bring snus. We have heard that in committee. They don't get it all over Europe. And we know the question of Kautabak's injury, too. Although you do not inhale it, you ask the dentist in your ranks about the oral cavities. He'll know that Kautabak doesn't cause lung cancer, but quite cancers in the mouth that we don't want either. All in all, I am glad that we have enforced this law and thank everyone who has worked. I thank those who take part in this law and hope that we may be able to prevent some suffering in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20769	Second word: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20801	Madam President. Minister! Yes, it is necessary, I have to speak briefly about the explanation. I think I have technically explained very well – if you had listened unafraidly – why this law is not good. Mr Loacker of the NEOS, who is certainly not on FPÖ lines, has explained this again quite clearly. Technically, the law is very weak. Then I have also clearly explained why it has been made very poor economically and, above all, weak. That's quite clear if you listen unafraidly. There are as many and as few smokers as the SPÖ club, the ÖVP club and the greens. It is not an ideological question, whether I smoke or not, whether I take steam or chewing tobacco to myself. That's not an ideological question. However, what we liberals already – and this should be clearly understood – obviously have a completely different ideological access than all the other parties here in the house, is the concept of freedom and personal decision-making power. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] This is a very elementary area for us, I say it again. That is, we stand for freedom, for freedom of choice, for choice of adult people. This is an essential part of democracy, of a free society. We do not need to start discussing whether too much sport or too little sport shortens my life, whether the daily Wiener Schnitzel shortens my life or whether the daily three-eighth wine shortens or prolongs my life. [[Abg. Jewel beaters: Extend!]] In principle, I think, we can discuss many things that bring one back to the grave. I say it again – I explained it last year at the first novel – and Mr Gansterer put it quite well in the “trend”: Unfortunately, we all have to take God’s last course at some point. We liberals - I say it again - stand for a democratic freedom of choice, which you in part do away with with this law, and that is what you do in many, many things in Austria. [[Call the Greens.]] And that is why so many Austrians are so angry about this government, but also about the European Union: because people feel that their personal concept of freedom is getting smaller and smaller. [[Abg. Darmann: At all corners and ends!]] I wanted to make this clear again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e20865	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 14. On item 14 there is a referral request from Mr Peter Wurmvor. I shall therefore immediately vote on the proposal for a Federal Act amending the Tobacco Act and the Health and Food Safety Act, in 1088 of the Supplements to the Health Committee. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. This means that we can vote on the draft law in 1088 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Spindelberger, Dr Rasinger, colleagues and an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen. I will therefore first of all be following the classification of the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals referred to above - the classification of the draft law. gent – and finally vote on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Mr Spindelberger, Dr. Rasinger, colleagues have an additional request concerning the insertion of a new Z 12a in Art. 1 introduced. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 20 introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Spindelberger, Mr Rasinger, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 21 and Z 40. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. This means that we will be able to get to the third reading at once. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken, and I am therefore doing so. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies, bear the name of the Members as well as the name “Yes” – these are the grey ballots – or “No” – which are the pink polls. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I am seeking the “Yes ” vote, who is opposed to throwing the “No ” vote mark into the urn. I would ask the author, Mrs Lueger, to begin with the name call; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21005	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21045	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 146; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 110, ‘No’ votes: 36. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Bayr, Mulder Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Knes, Köchl, Königsberger-Ludwig, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lithuania, liptic, lopatka, lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Moser, Muchich, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schidter, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbüchler-Sushill, tiny, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Angerer; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brückl; Darmann, Deimek; Fuchs; Gamon Claudia Angela; Hagen, Haider, Höbart; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Pock; Smoke Walter, Rosary Barbara; Schellhorn, Schenk, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Strache; themesl; Vavrik; Refusal torpher, Worm Peter.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21225	This draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on the Committee's report 1088 on the elimination of discrimination in images and textual warnings. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 138.) Finally, we shall vote on the resolution on tracking in accordance with § 7 of the Tobacco Act annexed to the Committee's report 1088 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 139.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues on tobacco law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[19:33:56]] 15. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1013, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Law on Health Austria GmbH is amended (1087 d.b.) 16. Point Health Committee Report on the Government Template (1000 d.a._Other Organiser Framework Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on cross-border cooperation in the Rescue Service (1086 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21306	This brings us to points 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21333	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The present framework agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on cross-border cooperation in rescue services has already been discussed in a very detailed manner in the Health Committee. I hope that, as a result of this discussion, there will be a unanimous decision today. Only the colleague or colleague from the Stronach team was not present in the committee, but I still hope that there is an agreement here from the Stronach team. This agreement is absolutely meaningful. It enables the head of state of Upper and Lower Austria to conclude regional cooperation agreements with their colleagues in the neighbouring Czech counties. What is it about? – It is about the same special and road rights for rescue vehicles on both sides of the border, in the Republic of Austria, but also on the Czech side. It is about enabling the use of the respective light and acoustic signals, as well as the equal treatment with regard to the toll or the toll exemption. The question of travel documents, liability insurance, settlement, remuneration – a lot of points to be clarified in this regard between the representatives of the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic. I myself am known to come from a border region, from the district of Freistadt, and our neighbouring region is South Bohemia, so I am constantly concerned with this problem due to some incidents. Of course, we have contact with the forces, we have contact with the District Retention Commander, who, of course, also very much welcomes this agreement. We have on the Upper Austrian side, that must be mentioned, an excellently functioning rescue service, but also the South Bohemian rescue service is well positioned and organizationally well. However, we have increased mobility between Austria and the Czech Republic, and it is therefore useful to ensure timely medical care in the border area regardless of the state borders and to avoid these limits of competence in the sense of cross-border cooperation. Unfortunately, there are again and again situations in which such agreements are important. I remember the serious bus accident a few years ago, specifically in October 2011, shortly after the crossing of Wilowitz with 36 injured. Of course, because of this particular emergency, cooperation has worked well, but some of them, if you take it seriously, have probably taken place in a legal grey zone. It is precisely these legal grey zones in cross-border rescue operations that are to be eliminated by this law – in the interests of patients, in the interests of the rescuers and, above all, in the interests of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21376	The next speaker was Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21397	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With these changes in the Federal Act on Health Austria GmbH, important steps are taken to improve stem cell donation as well as the breast cancer early detection program. In the future, coordination and search for appropriate stem cell donors will be placed on the GÖG's responsibility in order to ensure the provision of vital stem cells to the affected persons and to provide them with them in a sustainable manner. This is a welcome innovation as stem cell transplant is often the only effective therapy for people suffering from certain blood disorders, such as leukemia. However, I would like to focus primarily on progress in the breast cancer early detection programme and I am pleased that the long-term demand of the ÖVP women is finally being addressed here. Since the introduction of the breast cancer early detection program in 2014, there has been a need for both quality assurance and evaluation. It should also be noted that the problem analysis in the supplements to the Government template does not, or does not, allow for the evaluation and quality assurance of the Austrian breast cancer prevention programme while maintaining the current state, and therefore there would be no solid basis for making decisions. The data protection bases are now being created in order to be able to encrypt the essential data for the implementation accordingly. The current figures and data show that this is an important development. Every year, some 39,000 people in our country suffer from cancer, and some 9 000 women and 10,000 men also die. For example, breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide with around 1.7 million people per year, and in Austria too, 5 000 women per year suffer from this terrible disease. Circa every eighth woman suffers from breast cancer statistically in the course of her life. It is therefore essential to continue to work on the development and efficiency of the breast cancer early detection program. Ladies and gentlemen, although Austria – and we can be proud of it – is in the forefront of international comparison in the care of cancer patients, there is a need for further development in the early detection programmes. It is precisely there that we must not be negligent and not let down. It's about women's health – no matter what age. An increased screening also leads to the recognition of breast cancer at ever earlier stages and thus to a significant increase in survival rates. Cen comes. The data also show that breast cancer mortality rates have decreased by 15 percent over the last ten years. That's a remarkable part, a very positive approach. What is it like right now? How's the whole thing going? – Within the framework of the breast cancer early detection program, women between the ages of 45 and 69 can go to mammography every two years without any invitation or assignment with their e-card. That's welcome. Women from 40 to 44 years of age and 70 years of age can also participate in the programme, but this is still possible only after registration at the corresponding platform. This is an unnecessary bureaucratic obstacle that is still present. Women under 40 years of age have the opportunity to participate in this precautionary programme only if they can be transferred according to the indication list. It is true that the middle age of disease is in the main target group of the breast cancer early detection program and that the probability of breast cancer is significantly lower in women up to 40 years of age – you have to say that too. Nevertheless, it is not acceptable to accept a poor position in the screening of women under the age of 40. Especially among younger patients, it is important to recognize breast cancer as early as possible in order to act as quickly as possible. High house! It is therefore necessary for domestic and female doctors to be able to issue transfers for women of all ages, as before the introduction of the early breast cancer detection programme, and not dependent on an indication list. All women, regardless of their age, must have unlimited access to mammography screening. Precaution is now the most important aspect in the fight against cancer, and all women must be given the same chance. The Federal Minister has also agreed to this. I'm very happy about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21458	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21480	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to focus very briefly on the story with the screening improvement. Yes, it is important that we continue to improve in this regard, continue to evaluate, as I am with you. When this screening program came, we have been very committed by the Freedom Party to the fact that these improvements are being driven forward in pieces, and that is why we welcome it now. As far as stem cell therapy is concerned, it is already very important to me: We have a situation where, for example, becoming parents often invest hundreds of euros in order to store umbilical cord blood stem cells. I believe that there is also a greater responsibility – perhaps in the medium term – to think about whether it really must be that there is such a huge financial burden for parents. Of course, very few do. This might also be an approach in which one could think in the direction of whether there would also be a state task. The second request concerns cross-border cooperation between the rescue service. This is a great thing we welcome. I've got to go now. Mr Schopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say one thing. You sit here and talk like that's the top topic. This is a framework agreement, and yes, it is beautiful, good, important and right, but I do not think that is the top issue. I wonder sometimes if the values are not overestimated here. Should this really work, one might take this as an example, perhaps in Austria, that it may also work between the Austrian federal states, cross-border, because not only – as mentioned in the Committee – there are problems in Vienna and Lower Austria; for example, there are also problems at the Salzburg-Steirian border and probably also at many other Austrian borders.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21519	Mrs Dr. Mückstein is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21540	Madam President. We welcome this Health-Austria GmbH Act. It is certainly very good that the stem cell register now comes to GÖG/ÖBIG. Thus, the search for matching stem cell donors from GÖG/ÖBIG is taken over very orderly. This is a very important and quality-secure task, which is certainly important for many people, especially those who suffer from leukemia. For breast cancer screening: We also find this measure and the fact that GÖG/ÖBIG now has the task of evaluating the breast cancer screening that was introduced in 2014 very well. But it would have been important for us to describe more precisely in the law what is being evaluated at all, for good reason, because in the initial phase of breast cancer screening it has looked as if it were not as good on the legs. There have been many complaints from patients, women and doctors. To this end, it would be important to know: How many women use breast cancer screening at all? What happens at these long intervals of two years in which provision cannot be used? What about women who have no indication and yet the need to do a breast cancer screening? How does it seem that women are directly addressed and often not associated with their treating doctor or doctor? – That, for example, I think, is not really a very good development. But evaluation means checking and looking closely at the quality of a measure. That is why it would be good if the law said that these issues were anyway being evaluated. A second point, which we would also like to have enshrined in the law and not at the regulatory level, is the question of data protection. In fact, personal data are pseudonymised and transmitted from social security to GÖG/ÖBIG. But it's not as clear as it is: What data are these? In what detail? How does the data protection look? – These are the small criticism points. But in total, a very good measure. With regard to the rescue service, I agree with my previous speaker, but I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I sometimes feel that I am already very dissatisfied with the work in the Health Committee, because the health system is currently undergoing major upheavals – major open questions and all these major issues such as agricultural shortages, discussion of system changes in Reference to primary care, self-sufficiency, combination of health insurance funds. These issues are constantly being postponed, and we are not going to discuss them in detail in the public. I think we all agree that these are big and important issues and that there are also huge problems in the health system at the moment and an ever-increasing trend towards two-class medicine. That would actually be the issues that belong to the plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21589	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Oberhauser has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21610	. MAS: Madam President! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the issue of the merger of health insurance funds is concerned – I do not know how many times and how many times we have discussed them here in the public, in front of everyone. [[Abg. Mückstein: Yes, but nothing goes on!]] Finally, I think it was a request that has been postponed as far as the collection of health insurance funds is concerned. I guarantee that we will continue to discuss this again and again in many meetings, because even if we had discussed this today, I guarantee that the next day the same request, a little modified, would have been back in committee, and we would have the whole thing back in committee. Those who here, I say, are insiders, Members, know how this works: You make a request, you let it be rejected, you discuss it in plenary, you put it back, and then you see if it will be rejected again. That's the game there is. I think we've discussed this often enough. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is not so often!]] - Oh, very often! Very often! I believe that we currently have major health problems – you have named them – in a wide range of areas. In the Committee, we have also discussed very many issues really well, and I think that this law, which is very important, namely quality assurance, the evaluation of mammography screening, which has started with some holly, but now quite well, has made an important step forward. The pseudonymized data provided by social security are therefore pseudonymized, so that it is really handled very carefully. That is why we have also given it to GÖG and nowhere else, because we know that this organization is being handled very carefully. We're evaluating very simple things with that. What we currently lack is if a resident radiologist transfers a woman with the suspicion diagnosis breast cancer to a hospital or she comes to a center, then we do not know and the diagnostic doctor does not know in the feedback: Is that true, or is that not? – That is, what we lack is simply the quality assurance between diagnosis and post-control in the hospital: Was that really a diagnosis, or was it none? What was asked were the numbers. I would like to say once again that I believe that I have also said this in committee: The 40-44-year-olds, named by Mr Schittenhelm, are currently 40,800 women who have taken advantage of this programme in addition, and the women who are 70 years of age and older, are nearly 62,000 women who have been included in this programme by calling this telephone number or by telephone from the doctor. I believe that while one has to be careful, it is that mammography is called “precaution. ” It's an early detection program. You can't take care of it, you can see it early. I think that is something that is really good in Austria and, of course, we are constantly trying to develop it. The same applies to the stem cell register. I think it is a good thing that we have brought this more or less to the public, out of a fund into public space. We know that with stem cells many people can be saved life. This register is now in good hands, and I hope that we can continue to save many lives through good leadership. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21663	Mr Hechtl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21684	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Appreciate High House! Also to the danger of repeating itself here, I believe, is this matter and these two legislations are of particular importance to the population and an important milestone in health care. On the first point, the TOP 15, in which the Federal Act on Health of Austria GmbH is amended, has already been said a lot, but I would like to make one more specific point about what it is about. The aim is to ensure that patients concerned find suitable stem cell partners more quickly and securely in coordination with stem cell transplant centres. In this way this activity is transferred to the public sector, and the GÖG takes over this important function of the Austrian stem cell register. Another point of this law, a health aspect of this legislative matter, is, of course, data protection safeguards as well as participation in evaluation and quality assurance. An important part – as the Federal Minister has already mentioned – is sufficient data protection, and this is guaranteed. You can say: Since 2014, the Austrian breast cancer early detection program – the Minister has rightly pointed out that this is not a prevention but an early detection – is a very good programme. I believe that Mr Rasinger has pointed out several times, including in the Committee, that in Austria we have one of the best screening programmes that we are very, very proud of. I also know – and this has also been addressed – that: When the Mamma screening was introduced, there were very intense discussions. Mrs Bundesminister, you have proved to be steadfast, have not been relaxed in this programme, and have carried it through, even though there have been major discussions. This shows that we can be very proud today, too, that those women who are between 40 and 44 or more than 70 – that's why it was done – can use this program if there is a medical indication. Another point I would like to address, particularly with regard to Lower Austria, is the agreement on the cross-border cooperation of rescue services between the federal states of Lower Austria, Upper Austria and the Czech Republic, which we are now making possible. This change of law – this is a bilateral state treaty – will allow national leaders to conclude a cooperation agreement to ensure that the best possible provision of rescue services between citizens' borders is made possible, close cross-border cooperation in the rescue service is made possible, and access to the rescue service in the border area is facilitated. I think that is an important point so that we can make health care optimal and more efficient. This also ensures rapid, unbureaucratic health care. We, on the part of the Socialist Group, always put the patient in the foreground in health care, he is the focus of health care.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21738	Mrs Lamassoure is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21760	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The GÖG, i.e. Österreich GmbH, is entrusted with new tasks. A lot has already been said about the stem cell register. In fact, it is not so few people: In 2015, it was 515 people for whom the corresponding donors were provided. That's where we're talking about an 80 percent success rate. Considering that about 30 percent of donors come from the family circle, these 80 percent are a very big opportunity to secure a high survival rate for these people. So you can say: 515 people in 2015 who have a very good view of a normal long life. On the other hand, and that has already been said, the GÖG is now taking over the quality assurance and ongoing evaluation of the early breast cancer detection program. This was started in 2014, but in the course of the screening there is still a bit of need for action despite many improvements. According to the Regional Office Manager, the standardisation of the research protocols, the hardware and human infrastructure and, most importantly, the skills of the screening sites have improved compared to the time before the screening program. It is important that the quality at the sites where the studies take place is really excellent. But unfortunately, what is still to be complained about is that the number of women taking advantage of the studies has, unfortunately, fallen further. In 2014, i.e. in the first year of the programme, the number of studies compared with 2011, which is the last year for which figures are available, has decreased by 100 000 women. In 2015, there was a further decline of 5.5 percent. That is to say, in exact figures, it was 710 000 women in 2011, and that has then fallen to 582,000 women in 2015. This not only means that the advertising measures that have been launched and which are to be recognised, and also the high level of commitment shown by those responsible, may not have had sufficient effect. But it also means – and I think that is really a subject that we need to look after – that the risk of more breast cancer being diagnosed only at a later time is of course increased. I also say quite clearly that it is not yet possible to assess this precisely, because there are no valid figures. But there are certainly statements from some doctors who suggest that we have to deal with a problem field that needs to be closely monitored, because if the number of new diseases per year remains similar in a hospital for years, but in the first screening year, and also in the second, one can conclude that this is a problem field – that perhaps some diseases were not recognized in the early stages. Anyway: The screening program has very positive aspects, will certainly be very well developed, but may need a little more support. The data – that has already been said – that are needed for implementation are pseudonymized. These are health data, i.e. particularly sensitive data. This is why special care is needed, and the data protection principles that we need are also created by this law. However, it is also clear that the results of these data will also have to draw the right conclusions and take the appropriate measures and start them, but I am very sure that this is also fully in the interest of the Federal Minister and that she will look at them in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21821	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21842	Mr President. Madam President. At the moment, both are at the Bureau. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As was already noted in the Committee, there is a unanimous discussion on the contents of these two legislative instruments, for they are truly important. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Imagine, with you or one of your family members a severe blood disease has been diagnosed, perhaps even leukemia – and then wait! Every second becomes an eternity and a single day in an infinitely long time. You wait and wait. One is waiting for a stem cell donation. We are waiting for the data to be found at last and for the material to be available in order to be able to make a possible life-saving intervention. It is therefore all the more important that a new step be taken, that this database be extended, that it be jointly managed and that, hopefully, many, many people can be helped quickly – therefore, this unanimous agreement, of course, also to the other legislative content discussed in the Committee or here. The cross-border cooperation that should take place today is already a matter of course, or of mammography, whose intervals can be interpreted in such a way that good care can be taken. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly address a subject which is not contained in this law, but which I myself have not yet been able to conclude why it is. This is about the MRI and partly also CT examinations, i.e. magnetic resonance tomographies or Computer tomography. As you know, patients are waiting two, three, or four months for an investigation. There are cases where injury is diagnosed after an accident or severe illness, the patient will report – and wait for some three to four months until he gets an appointment. And there's a huge gap for me, because there's the cash registers that say the doctors prescribe these tests too often, that's not necessary at all. The doctors themselves say, however, that it is very necessary, they need the examinations. And who's in the middle? - The patient! We're a highly developed country. We are in health care, other nations are looking at us. I do not care about this in the present day, and I do not understand why there is no agreement to improve this situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Either you tell the patient as a doctor: Okay, you don't really need it, I just prescribed it for safety. – Then the patient probably also has a certain degree of security. Or on the other hand, you say: If it is necessary, then we also need to finance it, then there must be retranspositions. I would really ask, Mrs Federal Minister, that you accept this matter more strongly. I know there are already discussions. This is a gap that I believe needs to be closed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21903	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21924	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the government template: Federal Act, which amends the Federal Act on Health Austria GmbH. As we have already heard, Österreich GmbH's health is to be entrusted with new tasks. That's good and right. It is very important, as we have heard, to extend, Mrs Minister, as far as Mamma screening is concerned; this is beyond question. The rules on stem cell donors are also very important, ladies and gentlemen, too. Mr Höfinger referred to it as follows: You have to imagine what people often do if, for example, they suddenly suffer from leukemia. For these suffering-tested people, so-called stem cell planting is often the only promising therapy. In order to ensure optimal treatment for the patients concerned, appropriate donors must be found as soon as possible. On what Mr Hoefinger has mentioned, Mrs Minister, we have already discussed it more often: I believe that we are all – and you too, I ask you to do so! – put in the stuff as far as the MRI investigations are concerned, especially in the country. It is perfectly true what my previous speaker said: that people have to wait two, three, four, five, six months. The doctor needs this examination! You know it best yourself, Mrs. Federal Minister, you're a doctor yourself. I think we have to put ourselves in the stuff so that we can put it in this form in the future to ensure that the patients are cared for accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21953	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e21975	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Mrs Belakovich, you have already said this: Cross-border cooperation is important, both with regard to the federal borders and, in particular, if one is close to the border, beyond the national borders. In this way, we do not decide on a contract of employment which is only concluded between officials, but rather a rapid medical emergency care for our citizens, who now know no state borders in this sense. I myself come from a border district. My District Capital Gmünd is very close to the neighboring town of Ceské Velenice. The rescue of Gmünd has it actually much closer to Velenice than the Czech rescue from its location. With this state treaty, it is now possible for citizens, when they visit the neighbouring environment, to find the fastest care if they have a medical emergency, and this also from faces they know. That's something very special, and that's why you can talk about it. This framework law, which is being created there, has been a long-standing effort and is really an improvement for emergency use in the Czech border area. Since 1987 negotiations and intensive cooperation have already taken place, and so there are great projects. I would particularly like to highlight the project healthhacross, in which patients from the Czech Republic can also come to Gmünd hospital and be treated there outpatiently; in the future, stationary treatment will also be possible. And even in this project, the rescues were always involved. That this is now possible is really a special thing. The Ministers of the two countries signed the agreement in Znaim in January, and now the Heads of State with cooperation agreements can allow this provision for the future. This is a guarantee for our citizens that these are provided as fast, as possible, reliable and unbureaucratic as possible across borders. In this sense, it is a good law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22015	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22036	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too can deal with this agreement with the Czech Republic which has already been discussed. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, you said, of course, that is not the most important thing of the day, and I give you the right. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I said it was okay anyway, but!]] I have long been a Red Cross cruiser and a Red Cross official, and I think that this Convention is not an essential point. Why? – Because it is important – and so I also see our task in the service of the Red Cross and, of course, in the service of people – that we allow patients to receive medical treatment as soon as possible in the event of an event, or then transport them to a suitable hospital as close as possible. This framework agreement naturally improves the situation in the border area with the Czech Republic. I am reminded of how this happened in the past – and that is certainly not optimal – that patients in the border area have been transhipped from Czech to Austrian vehicles, to Austrian rescue services. I think that this framework agreement is now the basis for drawing up concrete measures to improve this situation. That is to say, it is now a matter of continuing, concrete negotiations and reaching cooperation agreements, which are fixed by the respective national leaders. What's this about? – It’s just about mutual information. It's about setting the alert. These are liability matters up to financial and insurance technical provisions. The Red Cross Upper Austria really sees a further development of the service for patients in Upper Austria. I should also like to mention that this Convention will certainly bring great benefits, especially in the event of major accidents or even in the event of a mass attack on the injured. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a welcome agreement for me, and I, of course, also see it in the light of a living Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22073	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22094	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My topic is also the framework agreement. Austria and the Czech Republic have 45 border crossings. If there is now cross-border cooperation between the rescue organizations, this is the reason to support it. However, it should be borne in mind: There are different systems of mutual understanding, such as radio and alerting. In the case of large-scale operations, joint management bodies should be set up accordingly. This must be applied for an alternatively coordinated use or for assistance to water, land and air. First-aid and emergency medical systems are required on both the principal and the voluntary basis. As there is currently a need for different levels of training, these should also be approximated accordingly. Not to be disregarded is the free choice of hospitals on both sides and the mutual cost coverage of the various social security funds. It is known that, in the Austrian tourist areas in particular, there are repeated billing problems or problems with the recovery of appropriate hospital costs or medical fees. The application must in principle be accepted, but further adaptation of the systems is required. As we know from our own experience in the disaster service, a system adjustment is also urgently needed within the federal states of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22131	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will be taken separately on each committee request. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Draft German Federal Act, which amends the Federal Act on Health Austria GmbH, together with the title and receipt in 1013 of the Supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is, in turn, unanimous and therefore also adopted in third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Health Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Framework agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on cross-border cooperation in the rescue service, in 1000 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:13:49]] 17. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1601/A by Mr Erwin Spindelberger, Mr Hermann Gahr, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Pharmacy Act (1089 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1593/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues with regard to the rapid, unbureaucratic integration of Syrian doctors and other health professionals into the Austrian health system (1090 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22220	We now come to points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. First speaker: Mrs. Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22244	Mr President. I'm talking to both TOPs. One is a special arrangement for around 90 to 100 pharmacies, which – and there is not even spoken about it at all, but actually quite open – should result in agricultural doctors staying on land rather than improving their income. I cannot accept this measure as a health policy measure. I think it is a bad example of pure client policy. In my opinion, this would only be a legitimate health policy measure if it were to be used with medicines for the good care of patients who are not so mobile that they can reach pharmacies. But whether there is such a need problem at all was not asked. From the beginning it was about meeting the country doctors who already have house pharmacies, or those who want to come to the country and so to speak need a sugar. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] Why is it so important that the house pharmacies aren't with the doctors? – In it also gives me the IHS right, of which on 15 May. An article on this was published in the press or in the “Kurier” on April: If doctors themselves prescribe medications and also benefit from the sale, there is usually a prescription. The second point is: The house pharmacies are usually not as well sorted as it is a public pharmacy. In Switzerland, it has also been seen that where doctors have the right to dispensation, the costs of medicinal products are one third higher than if the medicines are prescribed and given in the pharmacy. I think that from the point of view of health policy it is not possible to support this – also because in Austria we have enough problems with uncritical prescription practice and people often have problems because they take too many medications and there are side and interaction effects. From our point of view, this also does not solve the agricultural problem anyway. We have a concept on which we would like to talk, for example, at a round table, so that we have time to discuss in greater detail and to find appropriate measures. We believe that flexible working conditions and employment models are needed. This is particularly important. Doctors must also be able to hire doctors, there must be a job sharing model, and with all these models you must also be able to obtain cash contracts. Networks are needed to be able to share weekend and night services. We also believe that agricultural doctors in particular need more attractive cash contracts. And networking with other health professionals should also make the profession of the rural physician more attractive. In the field of pharmacies, it could be possible to make it easier for pharmacies to supply medications, for example, or to establish branches, and have a more flexible way to orient the opening hours according to the needs. The second item on the agenda, on the Syrian doctors and on our request to integrate Syrian doctors into the health system during the nostrification process, so that partial competences can be gradually recognised and they can bring their skills into the Austrian health system as quickly as possible and at the same time be provided with German courses – on the one hand, general and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other: Why is that so important? – In Austria, there are currently 200 to 300 Syrian physicians and many people who are well trained in other health professions, and on the other hand, there are major problems in hospitals because asylum seekers and refugees do not receive appropriate treatment because no one is there who understands them enough and can also treat them well. There has already been some disappointment in me that, out of a request that can be made to make it a win-win situation, one has done nothing but reject it and ad acta. We know from Syrian doctors and doctors that they often need five years in the nostrification process until they even get to work. However, they could be emulated, and above all they should be accompanied by accompanying persons, because in the course of this procedure there are very large obstacles, whether in the translation of certificates, in the monitoring of nostrification, in the nostrification test and also in the management of everyday life. This would also be important in order to give these highly trained doctors the opportunity to bring their skills into the Austrian health system. In the Health Committee, there was the argument and from my point of view the excuse that we limited our request to Syrian doctors. I think if we had done it differently, there would have been the excuse again that these are doctors and doctors who do not have the qualifications such as Austrian doctors. We have therefore done it because we know that Syrian doctors are very, very well trained and that many are there. I also personally know, for example, a heart surgeon who is highly trained and could probably work immediately in Austria, but now needs to go this long way in order to be able to work again in his profession, which he has been working very successfully for 25 years. I think it is an excuse that one could have taken the request from the government parties now and easily modified it so that it could be appropriate. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not an excuse, that's a fact!]] I think we need a lot of action. In fact, one should not waste time in this area in times like this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22289	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22310	I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, how you have been in the last few weeks or months when the topic of house apotheke has been discussed over and over again; I am just saying: I have contacted very, very many mayors in the form of e-mails, in the form of letters, because they are afraid that medical care in the country will no longer be guaranteed in the future, because there are fewer and fewer doctors applying for a planning site. Among other things, I already know that this is not a cure – it has been held over and over again that no one is applying for the local doctor's office because it is not guaranteed that a house apothecary can or may be conducted. Your concerns, Mrs Mückstein: I recognise – just as it is in the law – that the medical care of the population is primarily provided by public pharmacies. However, where we have a low population density, and that is now the rural area, there is thanks to God a range of medicines by the house pharmacies; but I see that in turn only as a supplement. This principle is in no way altered by the new law. However, if the next public pharmacy is less than six kilometres away – and this has always been one of the issues in the past – the current legal regulation is such that the ordination successor or successor of a cashier for general medicine was not allowed to take over the house apotheque. The new proposal, which has now been introduced, reduces this distance – and I think so – to four kilometers. This means that the house pharmacies, which would have been threatened in the short or medium term due to the previous succession, will continue to be secured in the future. According to information from the Medical Chamber, this is only 90 house pharmacies throughout Austria. In addition, new house pharmacies will be made possible in relatively larger municipalities, which also have a low population, but in this case the six-kilometre limit will again apply. The law to be adopted today also takes into account a judgment of the European Court of Justice on the need for pharmacies in Austria because it criticised this rigid attitude, namely six kilometres there, 5 500 inhabitants there. I believe that this scheme is a right way to improve the comprehensive and local medical care and thus to make a significant contribution to maintaining local medical care. I already know – as you have said, Mrs Mückstein – when we talk about Primary Health Care, so it is worth saying that more belongs to it overall, but I think we are on the right track overall.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22350	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22381	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Rasinger, you're afraid already! Mr Spindelberger, the argument that you put on your hair, now has a slip because you took his hair off. Mr Mückstein's argument was simply technical and factually correct and correct. You tried to strain a bow somehow, but have revealed yourself by saying that the mayors have e-mailed you and called you because then they don't find a country doctor, so they need a house apotheque. So the argument is: It takes more house pharmacies to make the agricultural doctors better! And this argument explores the function of the house apotheke! It is not the function of home pharmacies to provide doctors with better income, but it is the function of house pharmacies to provide the population with medications. What you ignore is the important four-eye principle, which you ignore, is the question: When are remote regions in the supply sector? – There are 2 000 house pharmacies in Europe and more than 800 in Austria, more than 40 percent of European house pharmacies are in Austria. That must really be an emergency zone with us, if your arguments were true, what they would not of course do. The University of Bern has compared these in Switzerland, where cantons exist with self-dispensing doctors and with doctors who are not allowed to dispensate themselves, and has also come to the conclusion that 25 percent more will be prescribed for the established practical doctors if they have dispensing rights. This is an overmedication in patients. So this is also about patient safety. This is a very simple story; we are still not talking about the costs that the cashier Spindelberger should actually have in mind. It is also a distortion of competition among doctors. What you always celebrate is this two-class society of doctors with house pharmacies and doctors without house pharmacies, and that is not fair. If the remuneration of doctors is not correct, please talk – the black and the red checkout officials – with your health insurance funds, then the doctors should pay for g’scheit, but don’t try to clean up something about the detour of the house apotheke there, which basically doesn’t work! Whatever you explore, but this is probably due to the age structure of the electorate of the two parties, is what young physicians expect of their profession today. They don't go to the land because they don't get home pharmacies there, they didn't study medicine because of the house pharmacies, but they don't go on land because a rural doctor in a small community has to expect it to always ring out with him. Everyone knows him, everyone knows where he lives, and everyone expects him to be available, and so he is seven days a week, 24 hours a day. This is very responsible, but it no longer corresponds to the expectation that young people have in their profession. They want to have a work-life balance, they want a regulated representation, and that's why you need to create opportunities for co-operation between health professionals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] The solutions? – Let doctors recruit doctors, introduce primary care centres a little faster than your dream government does! Colleague Pfurtscheller, you and your blocker party, and Dr. Rasinger is unfortunately on the gangband of the doctor's chamber, as nothing goes on at all, are essentially responsible for this. You could take much bigger steps with the Minister if you let her. ==References== By the 19th century! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] To the pharmacies: Of course, there is even more wind of the market in pharmacies, but then we talk about the opening hours; Pharmacies should have more generous opening hours. We should have a more liberal authorisation for the opening of branches. We should have more generous rules for shipping, we should talk about the delivery of drugs. There are also pharmacies that do this and operate it successfully. This would once be a solution for your rural regions. I do not come from a big city either, but of course the provincial mayor spirit does not get over it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22442	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22473	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I'm trying to cool down the moods a little bit, I'm always a doctor there! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mr Loacker has been so excited that I am afraid. Please, Mr Loacker, I am not on the band; I do not know where the band is, I am looking for it. [[searching the ground around the speaker’s seat]] So I'm telling you a few arguments now, because I appreciate that you are often accessible to contentions. We have 850 house pharmacies in Austria. The house pharmacies are an Austrian specification internationally. In Switzerland, every drug may sell, according to popular vote. The IHS argument is not true that this is more expensive, which you have brought to the committee. The main association says it's even a little cheaper, so it's about the same. – The argument is wrong, first of all you should correct. In the last ten years – and for ten years I have declared myself – 150 house pharmacies have been closed. If you change this to a doctor's office, it's 300 000 people who had a different form of care. Now is the fear of that another 150 – that is, about 700 remain at the end – are another 300,000 people. What are 300 000 people?, we have to ask ourselves. In addition to the financial aspects I'm quite conceding to them, pharmacies, doctors and so on, everyone is talking about money, we're also talking about pharmacies having demarcation problems with the drugstores and so on. But let's get out of the money factor! In health policy you should actually have a guideline, and my guideline – whether you believe it or not – is the older patient without a car. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Franz.]] What does it mean for the elderly patient without a car when, instead of going to the neighboring room to get the medicine out, maybe four or six kilometers should drive if there is a bus at all? She goes to the pharmacy, but many medications are not at all in stock, so she is comforted in the afternoon. She's got to go back and forth, maybe she's got fever. – I say, and I also think that this is a torture for older people in rural areas! [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Franz.]] Since this is not a few, but a total of 300,000 people, it is not to be neglected. I think we have to focus on this: Who's the use of it? What do patients have if they no longer have a doctor, as you say, to stay open around the clock for seven days? I have been approached by such a number of mayors in the Committee on Petitions for ten years, and no committee has passed without the intervention of mayors. They don't operate home pharmacies, but they're afraid that the rural area will lose even more attractiveness. I become a freelance pharmacy, I'm not for the chains like in America, where the pharmacist is sitting in the back of the chamber. I'm not for every doctor to lock up a pharmacy like in Switzerland. I'm for professionalism. But I'm also in favour of the patient's wish being taken seriously. The pharmacists themselves say that 31 percent of their pharmacies are deficient. Where are the deficient pharmacies? – Certainly not in the Mariahilfer Straße, where cosmetics et cetera are sold, but probably also in the thinly populated area. That means there are several interests meeting, but the main interest must be the patient, the older patient without a car! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Franz.]] I was only in Lower Austria, in Mank, so the place is, at a notarial opening. There you drive through towns, then a few kilometers further a village again, then another village, and if I introduce myself there to an older citizen, without a car, in the bus traffic we have in Austria, then I think it makes sense that we do the law this way, because we do not take anything away from anyone. There is not a single pharmacy curved a fairy tale, but we only shorten the distance from six to four kilometers upon transfer – upon transfer! And I think that's a more than legitimate wish. This is not the big opening, but I think many Austrian patients will say thank you. That is how I am on the gangband of the Austrian patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22562	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22585	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For ten years now, Mr Rasinger has said, he has been confronted with interventions, I have been in the House for ten years, it has been discussed for ten years, it is being strongly disputed. I believe that the law is also acceptable because it is a compromise solution between the doctor's chamber and the pharmacist's chamber. That is also the reason why we will give this law our consent. I am not of the opinion that with this law we will also win a single rural doctor; quite the contrary, I do not believe at all. Nevertheless, I believe that it is a good compromise because it is borne by those who face it, namely the doctors and the pharmacists. I don't know why, as a politician, you always have to stand down and be still failed than those who have to live with it every day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I cannot understand this, Mr Loacker, and also the Green colleagues, I cannot understand. I am not so optimistic that this will bring even a single family doctor, but I think we need quite a lot of additional measures for rural areas. This starts with the payment and goes over several additional offers. Interestingly, it has already been said by many today that doctors should be allowed to hire doctors – we were the first to demand it – and this is certainly also a necessary step to extend opening hours in order to provide the doctors concerned with opportunities. But what we have – and that is what we see – is a general medical shortage that is not limited to the family doctor, but that we also have in the specialist areas. And there it turns out that the reason cannot be the house apothecary. That is, there are quite different reasons for that, there are many, many reasons. We make up much less than a few years ago, many go to neighbouring abroad after studying, because the training is just not so good, there they are much faster completed doctors, and it only comes back a part. Moreover, it is probably relatively unimaginable for someone who has not grown up in rural areas to go to the countryside. In fact, a lot of factors play a role. In addition, the payment is not so great as it is, of course, a partial aspect. But this is a conglomerate from many points, so there will still have to be many, many solutions. But again: We agree with the law because it is borne by those who have to live with it, namely the doctors and the pharmacists. Secondly, on the request of the Greens to bring Syrian doctors to the Austrian system more quickly: It's not understandable to me! Why the Syrian doctors? – That could be just as Romanian doctors, Russian doctors. They all have a good education in their countries and are equally trained, only if they comply with Austrian standards, is that one question, and the second question, of course, is also the language component. Therefore, Syrian doctors, as well as those who come to Austria from other countries, have to go through the nostrification here. I can't see any need to make it faster now. One more thing is coming, and to say that now is also a need for me: To believe it's so terrifying of us that we are now withdrawing doctors from a war zone, because we have a medical shortage in Austria, I think I'm actually a bit irresponsible. We should rather try to get them back into bringing back their home, because there they are probably needed more urgently than here with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22639	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Oberhauser has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22661	Mr President. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The question of who we have done good with – I say so now – correcting the issue of house pharmacies or the revision of the Pharmacies Act, we have also discussed back and forth in the Committee. The problem is – and only Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, who is also a physician, doesn't get so easily into the smell that a doctor does something good to the doctors – if a minister is a doctor, if a health care professional is a doctor and then comes up with some regulation with which you don't punish doctors, but tries to somehow do something better, then you always get into the smell immediately: Ui, doctors help doctors! So I keep it with Erwin Rasinger, and we both were so involved in this thing: That's one thing we really did for patients. There were a lot of questions. I could not go out of any Federal Council meeting without not talking to at least three mayors from different regions and saying: Please, they lock us out of the house pharmacies, our people don't come to a pharmacy! I can recall many speeches here, including Mr Däderle, who spoke from the speaker's desk for the Tyrolean area and said: We need a new regulation for the house pharmacies. We don't get a doctor, and above all the patients can't get to a pharmacy. I believe that what has to be said clearly here is that for us – for my party, but I believe, also for the coalition partner – it is quite clear that the main focus of the drug supply must be on the public pharmacy, not only for the individual pharmacy; possibly for a branch, possibly also through delivery obligations, through other, better opening hours, but the main focus in the care lies with the public pharmacy. We have made this arrangement for many small communities, where the woman does not come by car to the next pharmacy to ensure that, instead, the house doctor, the house doctor, can continue to provide medicines. That was the reason for this scheme. It was a regime that was created together with President Mödlhammer – who was also a big concern – and together with the coalition partner. We said: Let us see that at least once we bring air out of this system and that the supply of drugs and medical care in the country do not suffer any more than this is already the case, for the various reasons addressed by the various Members: Opening hours, the issue of permanent availability, the question of who might live in the country. That means that many things are not solved by this regulation, but at least we have tried to get some air. On the question of Syrian doctors: I have already said in the Committee that last year there was a meeting of the five German-speaking health ministers. Minister of Health, where the German Minister of Health told us that in Germany efforts are being made to bring Syrian doctors to the system faster, in the system of on-the-spot care to have people who speak the same language as the refugees. As a result, we have tried to create a rule that we are in the refugee camps – I say, like the caretakers of a football team – allowing doctors who have come with the refugees to take part in the refugee camps under the supervision of local doctors, but of course we have also tried to stop the bureaucracy that has been addressed a little bit. This applies, of course, not only to a group of doctors who come from a country, but also to Russian, Ukrainian – wherever they are – physicians. We have contacted the Medical Chamber, we have contacted the University and have tried to ensure that nostrification procedures and recognition of diplomas run faster, but not only for the one group of doctors, but for all. – That is why this request has not been accepted. To do this, we also need to say: There is a coordinator in the house, Dr. Roland Paukner, to help doctors and medical staff among the refugees to find themselves more quickly in the Austrian bureaucracy of the university and the medical chamber.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22722	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22743	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Pharmacovigilance Act deals with ensuring general medical and, above all, with the provision of drugs in the mostly rural communities throughout Austria. The rural doctor and the associated house pharmacies are very important components of our health care in the rural areas. In particular, people whose mobility is restricted and who do not have public transport are particularly affected. Mr. Loacker, a few weeks ago I was in your federal state, in Vorarlberg – not in a larger town like Dornbirn, because there you only need to fall over three times and is in a pharmacy. I was in Bregenzerwald, and in Bregenzerwald I got a health problem, there went to a so-called country doctor – as we call this – who could treat me thank God – and that was in the late evening hours, because from his house apotheque he could really give me medical care. And precisely the supply area of this rural doctor in Bregenzerwald will lose the house apotheke when he stops. His successor will no longer receive the house apotheke, and the next pharmacy is about eight, nine kilometers away. This means that for residents in this area who do not have public transport, the medical care is mainly dependent on the home pharmacies of their doctor; and without these, especially older people would have to make really massive complaints in order to receive their medical care. I think this law provides that this must no longer be the case in rural communities, because the maintenance of medical care in certain regions also has a direct link with the presence of a house apothecary, and that is why this law is so important to us. It calls for measures to ensure comprehensive health care for all Austrians in all regions of Austria in the long term. The current legislation provides that the population is supplied primarily by public pharmacies, and in addition there is also the provision of medical home pharmacies for rural areas with low population density. This will continue to be the case in the future, as nothing will change. The home pharmacies should in no way suppress the public pharmacy, but there are regions where the home pharmacies are a central place of local health care – and the number of these regions will continue to grow in the future. Under the existing law, an ordination successor or successor of a general medicine cashier cannot take over an existing home pharmacy if the next public pharmacy is less than six kilometres away – and in certain rural regions this is true. I think the house pharmacies are securing the existence of basic medical care in the country. The agricultural doctors also ensure the supply of medicinal products to the population there, which is really a classic win-win situation for all concerned. It is a good law for an important and right thing, and I am therefore going to have a broad support for ensuring the health care of the Austrian population here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22789	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22810	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker, I must say that this law is clearly only for our patients and for our people in rural areas, and everything else is only side effects. As a result of the progressive demographic development of rural health services, there is a strong increase in the elderly population and also in the chronically ill population under pressure. And so this law certainly cannot stand alone, but we must also ensure an attractive design, an increased reputation and good conditions of health professions. This is essential so that we can ensure a comprehensive supply in rural areas. But as a representative of the rural area, I have often pointed out the difficult situation of the medical and thus medical care in rural areas, because especially the rural patient must receive the same basic medical and medical care as that in the urban area. I therefore welcome this regional policy point, which continues to ensure medical care. It has been mentioned many times today that the doctors are also seeing the open places in the rural area again, because for many doctors it was a reason why they did not apply for medical practice that the continuation of the house apotheke was not guaranteed. And with the new We can thus secure 130 house pharmacies in rural areas, the reduction of six to four kilometres. It is here – as we have already mentioned – especially the patients who are no longer so mobile and who can no longer take long distances independently. In order to ensure the best possible supply, we also need further solutions, because, as we have already learned, the workplace is not so attractive to some people as a family doctor in rural areas – and so we also have many older doctors who no longer find successors. That is why we really need to think of other things, such as a care, education and care facility, because we know that the proportion of women in the medical profession is increasing, and that simply requires different requirements. In addition to income, it is family suitability, working conditions, as well as a 40-hour week and a good opportunity for childcare that must be guaranteed. This also results in a gain in quality of life in this professional group. In this sense, Mrs Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the fact that this law could be drawn up, because it is really an important point for rural areas. We continue to work together to ensure this supply of doctors and medicines in rural areas too!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22855	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22877	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since I remember, the health system has been dominated by this dispute between doctors – especially established practical doctors in the country – and the pharmacists. It seemed as if an agreement would never come about, once were one at the front, once the other. This dispute even within the board also led to or at least accelerated that the dentists wanted to have their own chamber because it was too stupid for them to always get involved in the interests of a subgroup of doctors. That's why I can say: As far as I am concerned, this is really a milestone in Austrian health policy, that there is now an agreement here. This agreement, of course, has a compromise character, neither the pharmacists nor the practical doctors are satisfied, but it is a step in the right direction. And if one also sees that, of course, in the country corrosional the places of the practical doctors are no longer properly reoccupied, one has to consider what this is all about. There is, of course, also a certain incentive for young colleagues to go to the country if they see this opportunity to continue the house pharmacies on request under certain circumstances. But if you think about it – and you have to think about it in this context – how to get young colleagues to the country, how to ensure, above all, the provision of the population so much spoken about by my previous speakers, then you will not be able to take up our proposals. I say it again and again, and I say it now: The surrounding and up is the placement of doctors in doctors. The fact that this is not possible at the moment is a real weakness in Austrian health policy. [[It was in favour of members of the FPÖ and of Deputies Doppler and Franz.]] Similarly, it is important to make it easier for doctors to cooperate, medical gembHs. Forcing the PHCs will be a dead end and the motivation of the colleagues will not necessarily improve. As I said, the PHCs we do not really want to talk about are the wrong way. The second request here, concerning the rapid, unbureaucratic integration of Syrian doctors and other health professionals into the Austrian health system, sounds tempting, as it is said: Why not? They can only be used in refugee camps or sports doctors! – We do not consider this to be a target because there is also an abduction order for third-country nationals. That's got a reason. I would like to read a statement by Lord Ralf Dahrendorf – who died in 2009 – who may explain it the easiest. To the difference in the USA – Europe he says: “The US is an open immigration country with a weak social system” – and in our case not so high standards in the health system – but “Europeans” have created “great social states” and very high standards in the health system “which they cannot share with outsiders”. – So much for the discussions that we have held here all day. As far as the training of Syrian doctors is concerned, you said correctly, Mrs. Minister: This can not only apply to the Syrians or to a particular population or state group. I believe that this issue, which is of course also a difficult one, should be discussed with the doctor's board, perhaps to change the rules of application, so that it may also be faster than today; but to avoid the system only because of an occasion legislation, we do not find that right. One thing has to be said in this context: It is an unwritten law, but members of the health system of a state, a country, members of the medical profession should, I believe, make themselves the last one to leave a country. It is completely wrong that, through false incentives, we are forcing the emigration of doctors from these countries and, on the other hand, sending expensive NGOs, who then need to provide the population, because these states do not have a functioning social and health system and, above all, no more doctors.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22934	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e22955	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Medical care for people must continue to be one of the highest standards in Austria. We must ensure that sick people – no matter where they come from and where they live – are best cared for in the city or in the countryside. Mr Loacker, I am such a mayor who is responsible for a community in the country and we know: The challenges are getting bigger and bigger. Today, the mayor is responsible for local care, education, childcare, there is an innkeeper in the community, but of course there is also health care. It's really a problem that often doctor's practices are outlawed and nobody's reporting. I can tell you an example from my neighboring community: The doctor died suddenly, and his practice was in his own residence. The Mayor Of course, immediately tried to find a successor. He said: Only if there's a house apotheque there. She had the last doctor, too. The new one has said he will take over this practice. Now the problem was that this practice of the predecessor could no longer be used. So the community bought a house and wanted to install the practice there. But it turns out that this practice is not six kilometers away, it was at the other end of the place. How do you explain to the citizen that this is no longer possible? No one out there understands why the bureaucracy is so complicated and so incomprehensible. In the meantime they have placed two containers on the other side of the place, and in fourteen days the doctor will resume his ordination. Of course, in the future they will have the opportunity to use the house they originally meant, because this distance, which was previously specified, is no longer necessary. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] So there are these special cases. We know that the new regulation is not a cure and that not everyone is absolutely happy about it. Nevertheless, it is our obligation that we make sure that we find doctors, that we create incentives for them to go to the country, that they can take their families and that these families also want to stay there. Ladies and gentlemen! Medical care must continue to be accessible to all citizens. We must work together to get the best out of the Austrian population again and again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23004	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23025	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Amendment of the Pharmacy Act, criteria for approval of house pharmacies are amended – with this new law you make a big contribution to general medical care especially in rural areas, we have already heard that. We must be very concerned that the rural area will be strengthened, and I believe that this is also a major concern for all of us. It must also be borne in mind that many elderly, chronically ill people often have no car, public transport connections are bad – Mr. Dr. Rasinger has already mentioned them – and if there is a novel of this law, it is a relief for many if, for them, a pharmacy is near their home doctor. I am already convinced, however, that, as Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein also mentioned, the problem of successors is not solved in any way. It is certainly also important in the future – and we all know this, ladies and gentlemen, that has now also been addressed by the mayor – that there must, of course, be framework conditions for domestic doctors, especially financial, but also labour law, because it is important that the family doctor, the family doctor, cannot be employed around the clock. That is quite, very important, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We need our domestic doctors to provide the people in rural areas, and that is why we need this relief in the areas of health and safety. the law so that people can be helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23064	Next, Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23086	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Many of my previous speakers have already welcomed this amendment to the Pharmacy Act and, of course, have argued accordingly. I too have often been addressed by the affected population and, of course, by mayors. Mr Loacker! Based on the commitment of mayors is not a certain church tower thinking, but it is the concern and task of their people. [[Abg. Loacker: Maybe sometimes!]] It is simply about the future supply of medicinal products, and it is also about ensuring the protection of local medical care. It has already been mentioned by many of my previous speakers, especially old people, people in need of care, families with children and, of course, people who are dependent on public transport. I can say this very clearly: It is a difference whether, as in Vienna, I have a dense network of public transport or in rural areas two to three times a day I have the opportunity to use a transport. That 16 congregations have joined together, as was the case in Upper Austria, this does not come from about, but from a concern about the future in this area. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to this change of law. At the same time, however, I am saying that not all communities have yet found a solution to this problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think any of a single or, in other words, public pharmacies on the one hand and medical house pharmacies on the other. Due to our land structure, especially with large rural areas, the combination of public pharmacies and house pharmacies is justified. What I already believe is that there is a possibility that cooperation between the pharmacies and the public pharmacies can be strengthened in order to improve the overall situation, clearly with the aim of providing medicines to the Austrian population, and in particular to all the population groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23120	Next, Mr. Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23142	Mr President. Minister! High house! To the pharmacies: In principle, it makes sense that there is a separation between a pharmacy and a doctor – that is what Emperor Friedrich II has done. ==References== This was the famous edict of Salerno, or perhaps a little bit anchored in mythology. You can read this – Professor Däderle certainly knows it externally. In principle, it makes sense to separate this, but we have an absolutely good compromise with this new law in the sense of the patients I fully agree with, because of course we have to think about how people are cared for in the country. Col. Rasinger really did this in detail, and there is nothing more to be said about it – except for me to be able to hire doctors from doctors. I think that is the future and in this direction you should necessarily go. This can include all of this, including medical-gesmbHs – where, I believe, you always have to separate, so that the non-industrialized large-scale companies, large chains, which then allow the medicine to expand in a capitalist way. That would not be in the interests of the doctors. What we're with the doctors with. Mr Loacker, colleague Mückstein, I very much appreciate you, but I always place a little doctor's bashing when it comes to these issues. As if doctors were only doctors or doctors because they deserve well, whether in Bregenzer Wald or in Vienna. That's not true! [[Abg. Loacker:... when it comes to money!]] A doctor can only earn well if he offers a good patient care, and that is the highest goal of every doctor. I don't think there's a doctor who puts the stock exchanger at the top of his interests, because then he missed his job. I would like to take care of all my colleagues on a flat-rate basis, for that I stand! At the request of the Greens: Please do not be angry, you are always against any form of discrimination, everything must be the same – and what do you do with this request? This is a positive discrimination against Syrian colleagues, even though they are still so good. There are Syrian doctors, they're good, I know them myself. But you can't go here and say, a group of people, an ethnic group, I'm taking it now and giving it a preferred treatment in Austria – and we're going to suck it, as Mr Karlsböck has correctly established, possibly from Syria from areas which are already under-supply or perhaps not provided at all. That's something I can't understand that you can argue in any way. [[Abg. Mückstein: If this is so big theme,...!]] So I am strictly against that, and I believe that we are by no means against it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23195	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23216	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think the debate has shown that there are differences in access to this house pharmacy scheme or to the pharmacy law. Erwin Rasinger has said quite clearly, the citizen, the patient is at the centre. To me, one thing seems to be very important: Austria is a country with different circumstances. We have favors, and we have locations and areas where one has to fight with emigration and where there are great distances. In the favours and with us in the tourist situations we have no problem finding a doctor at all, there is no further possibility, but there are areas – that has been shown in recent years – where you have written out and no one has applied. I am quite clear that the house apotheques alone are not the necessary Incentives as a whole will be stimulated. Mr Belakovich-Jenewein has done so, and I fully agree with her that we need further measures to create a semi-attractive environment and bring young doctors to the countryside. The example of Mr. Keck shows how important it is that in an emergency one can take advantage of the doctor on the one hand and on the other hand also receive the medications. I think that is quite a practical solution. With today's decision we make one: We have a package with which we want to receive 850 such country doctors with house pharmacies. The fact is, there have been 150 house pharmacies locked up, 150 pharmacies opened, so there has been a certain shift in recent years. But the fact is that: We are today in line with the many petitions and citizens' initiatives that have been accepted by the mayors in recent years by the municipalities, we are fulfilling this mandate and wish. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Bundesminister, the health speakers and all those who have contributed to drawing up this sensible and reasonable compromise so that we can adopt this law today. It is in the sense of the citizens of rural regions, it is in the sense of people who have a disadvantage that are not so mobile. I believe that overall we should consider that our objective must be that we can offer medical and medical care to all citizens in the best possible quality in urban, urban and rural areas as well as in rural regions. One step closer to this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23264	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Draft Federal Act amending the Pharmacy Act, including title and receipt in 1089 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1090 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[21:10:15]] 19. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1617/A by Mrs Erwin Spindelberger, Dr Erwin Rasinger, colleagues on the Federal Law on the Processing of the Hospital Cooperation Fund (KRAZAF Processing Act) (1091 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23356	We now come to the points 19 and 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Karlsböck was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23383	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing two legislative proposals here, I refer to the item on the agenda 20 with the negative report on the stoppage of the clean-up waves in Vienna's health care system. We've been talking about this for a long time. We have mentioned in the last plenary debates what happened here. I don't think I have to repeat the story around the doctor Dr. Rainer who tried to put his own union on his feet and then got massive problems. The Permanent Contracts Commission of the City of Vienna, although it has received the best marks, has been known for its positive dealings with its colleagues, has been highly professionally and equally excellent and has cancelled the department in which he has worked – which is considered very good worldwide, as a leader in the treatment of lung diseases – 15 new services, and has also signed out. That was the so-called permanent treaty commission, but it is unfortunately exclusively, as one has the impression, a line-by-line body and is similar to a party body of the Social Democratic Party of Vienna. So there is a very powerful opponent who sometimes puts his own interests ahead of the needs and well-being of the patient. – At least that’s how you get the impression. Mrs. Minister, we have also asked you to assert your influence as a party member of the Vienna SPÖ and, before the courts decide, to introduce a change in this particular case. We would not have much to discuss now if new things had not been added last week, namely the so-called Mystery Shopping Regulation. [[Abg. Vogl: Have already brought in!]] The mystery shopping forced by the health insurance company places doctors such as patients more or less under general suspicion of fraud and massively burdenes the doctor-patient relationship; in our opinion, it is unacceptable to intervene in legal bases, which should be terminated immediately. The guidelines on the implementation, documentation and quality assurance of Mystery Shopping agreed at the meeting of the Social Insurance Carrier Conference actually remind us of old GDR times when people were spyed out and denunified without scruples. Understanding You're not wrong with me: Of course, there are black sheep in every profession, and of course there is also in the medical profession. However, this law should not only pioneer the doctors, but also hospitals, pharmacists and the entire health system. It is therefore understandable that the representatives of the Medical Chamber in Mystery Shopping have now placed the irrevocable breach of confidence in the relationship between doctor and patient and threatened the passage to the Constitutional Court. We, too, are convinced that there is a breach of the constitution, especially as recognized constitutional judges such as Heinz Mayer conclude that the health insurance companies can send a lock tip into the ordination without any initial suspicion. In an OTS broadcast, it says: “If doctors could no longer be sure whether patients or actors wishing to engage in social security as test patients are confronted with fake e-cards, this would mean not only additional investigations and ‘security transfers’ to specialists – and thus an additional burden on patients – but it would also cost taxpayers ‘a lot of additional money’.” Further: “A similar result is also achieved by Alois Birklbauer from the Institute for Criminal Law at Linz University. In his opinion, he points out that hidden investigators may only be used in the area of criminal and security police law in the event of an initial suspicion and a certain minimum severity of a crime. If hidden investigations now included medical quality controls, these principles would not be sufficiently in line. Similar to Mayer, Birklbauer also emphasizes that hidden investigators should not provoke any act.” We will, of course, defend ourselves against this law of the Kassenpitzel. It really cannot be said that the use of peaks, which is permitted only in the public sector only in a clear legal procedure, may order the incarnation of doctors, doctors, pharmacists and hospital staff as well as patients but each department head of the controlling body. Freedom is a high asset, so it is too little to stress constantly only the potential for savings. Finally Metternich has also provided for order and efficiency with his peak state, and Metternich is only a weakened variant of all those who came later. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23442	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23515	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23536	Mr Karlsböck, I would also like to refer to this motion for a resolution which you have tabled. Because of your speech, I cannot really see any connection as to why there are new reasons which justify that we are discussing this request again. The fact is that you have made a similar request – as so often, on many issues – in several committees, that is why we are already dealing with this request here in plenary for the second time. It's certainly all right for democracy policy. You, however, continue to preach administrative simplification. What you are doing here is employment policy, in my view also pointless employment policy for the staff of Parliament and also for our Members. You can say that too, in this clarity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] This link of the termination challenge from a doctor whose contract has not been extended to the subject Mystery Shopping, which I cannot recognize. You have made this connection, it does not come from me, you have put it in your speech; I cannot understand it. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Damage!]] I said it last time: Firstly, there is no competence to do something here either by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs or by the Minister for Health. The second theme is the language chosen: There are terms used here, and you have just mentioned the GDR methods again, of which I think they may not necessarily have something to look for in an objective discussion. We can, of course, discuss why this Treaty has not been extended. I also understand that this doctor is turning away, and that is, as it were, the meaning of the rule of law. Our task is to ensure that the instruments are made available and to see if these instruments work. In the whole case, I have not seen anything to say that the instruments of the rule of law are not sufficient to protect the interests of this doctor. That would be our job here. If you recognize this, we can continue to discuss it here. Otherwise, I do not see any reference to the Austrian Parliament which you have made with this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23579	The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23600	Mr President. Last round: However, there is still much to be said about this, because I have only now seen the FPÖ's motion for a resolution on Mystery Shopping and, at the same time, the directive on implementation. I think that this is actually an extremely worrying development when doctors and health professionals can be suspected not only of doctors and doctors, but of all health professionals who are in a contractual relationship with the health insurance fund. The health insurance fund determines for itself what is a legitimate suspicion. Among other things, this paragraph bothers me: ‘Founded suspicion (...) then exists when concrete information indicates that a legal, total or. In the event of a breach of a contract (...), there shall be an infringement of the contract.’. Then what should all be allowed? – Patients can be called, test persons can be used, there can be a follow-up review, the staff can be consulted and the like. In my view, these implementing provisions are such that the doctor concerned, the doctor concerned or health care professionals concerned have no legal means to defend themselves, and this alone is a completely unsatisfactory situation. Even if test buyers are allowed in a pharmacy or elsewhere, I think: The relationship of trust that is necessary in order to build a good treatment setting is part of medical treatment or treatment by representatives of other health professionals. This relationship of trust must not be questioned. Just as the implementing rules are designed, everyone working in a health profession should sit with the tape in the ordination and always remember that all that is said in the ordination must ultimately be proved and proved by him. Then on the transfer of KRAZAF to the Federal Health Agency: We will not agree with this, which is a somewhat dubious matter from our point of view. €1.2 million will be sent to the Federal Health Agency because the KRAZAF will be dissolved. The money is intended for palliative and hospice medicine I'm going to see you. In doing so we have said or it was also the recommendation of the Survey Commission that € 18 million should be made available for 2016 and 2017. So that would be just a drop on the hot stone. What is particularly worrying: There is a legal view or the unlikely presumption that there is also a KRAZAF gap that the KRAZAF has not paid out the countries and municipalities accordingly. That was when it came to the LKF system. Hainburg has gotten right in a procedure at the OLG and this decision could mean that it will be judicated that €1.3 billion will be due, which the community and countries could demand. In fact, I do not think it is right that the KRAZAF should now be deprived of the financial substance before it comes to a final decision that could favour municipalities or countries. On the question Rainer and Asklepios. We will not agree to the FPÖ proposal, although these processes naturally produce a rather slant look. From our point of view, it is the case that the labour and social courts will be concerned anyway. This question is also within the competence of the countries. In addition, I have undertaken – I say it for the second time today – to really respond to the choice of FPÖ words in the future and to include them in the debate. This is also a completely exaggerated and totally aggressive choice of words, which has nothing to do with this and which does not belong to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23665	Next, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23686	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Mrs Mückstein, I am quite with you: We need a fair rule funding for the hospice sector, yes. But every euro that benefits people with severe illness is a euro. That is why we want to take advantage of the possibility of making money available for the hospice and palliative services. In concrete terms, the aim is to make available remaining resources from the KRAZAF, the Hospital Cooperation Fund for Hospice and Palliative Care. It would be nice if you could agree. What's this about? – In short: The KRAZAF is dissolved. Now its own resolution law should just avoid long-term legal disputes and bring legal certainty. The fund is expected to remain around €800 000 – money that has no mesh. And we want to devote and use this as soon as possible for palliative and hospice supplies. I emphasize: This has nothing to do with the necessary permanent financing of this area. We have all agreed here in the National Council that funding should also now take place in the ongoing financial compensatory negotiations, and that is what is in progress. The money must and will not fail in the financial negotiations. No human can be left alone in Austria at the end of his life. The coordination of the expansion of hospice and palliative services – also in accordance with the recommendations of the National Council – is taking over a Hospice and Palliative Forum, the is currently under construction. Welcoming: The work is in full swing. It is also nice that two highly competent personalities will lead this Hospice Forum – volunteering. Mrs. Oberhauser and Mr. Sozialminister recently appointed Mrs. Waltraud Klasnic, the chairman of the HOSPIZ Austrian umbrella association, as well as the expert and long-term specialist Elisabeth Pittermann for this responsible task. I should like to thank both excellent personalities for wanting to assume this responsibility for us and for all of us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What does that mean now? – This means that these two competent personalities are now going to implement our recommendations of the Survey Commission on “Walking at the End of Life”. That's the decisive thing. Salopp said it's going a little further. We will thus come back to our goal one step closer to the fact that all people in Austria must have adequate pain relief, care, donation at the end of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23740	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23762	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Aubauer, by chance the two personalities are a black and a red personality, as it belongs in this Republic. [[Highness with the NEOS and the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The fact that the money from the KRAZAF is used for palliative care is good and right, as you have said; but in reality, you have been looking for a cover to make a very bad story less attackable. What's this about? – The KRAZAF, which has been shut down for 20 years, is now abolished. And what is the occasion for this? – There are still communities that still have a few million euros from the KRAZAF. A community is now successfully persecuting this in court. Other communities have waited and said: Now let's see what they're fighting, and if it works, we'll complain. – In order for the others not to be able to sue their money now, the KRAZAF is now cleared out, and then, unfortunately, one can no longer serve with an empty fund. If this were to be done by an entrepreneur, he would rightly be responsible, but that's where you do it. And then I wonder, Where are the mayors who had the tears in mind at the item on the agenda for the supply of drugs and pharmacy law? – With the money missing from the communities, you can use the taxi for years. Unfortunately, it is a double moral with which you argue here today!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23798	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Oberhauser has made a statement on the matter. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! With the KRAZAF, which we resolve here, we are trying, as you have said, to resolve a 20-year-old dispute, a dispute between the public authorities. What policy is now doing is: She takes responsibility and just says, now we see that we really clean it up. Money is left in the fund, we said. That is the amount from which we said on common initiative that we use it for hospice and palliative care. On the question of who are the two coordinators: I do not know anyone of the NEOS who would have stood out in the hospice and palliatives as the two ladies. Maybe next time we'll find someone who volunteers for it. It is true that last week, together with Alois Stöger, I handed over the decrees to the two ladies; and colleague Klasnic has responded to my relativization – after saying that it is a small step that we are now taking, by making the people more or less available for it –: No, she sees this as a very big step. We remember – I think the Greens still know that – Kurt Grünewald was the one who always said: Death is country matter. – That’s right, it’s still so, and that’s, I think, a stalk in the flesh of all of us. Trying to bring in this dynamic and put the whole thing on its feet will not happen with the remaining money from the KRAZAF, but it will need more effort. Colleagues Klasnic also told us that Hans Jörg Schelling, when he was still in the main association, went well on the question of hospice and palliative beings and that he said: If you bring the two ministries to a table, I'll be with the money. [[Complementary of the Abg. Aubauer.]] However, he still said that in his position as head of the association. So let's see if he is still helping us as Minister of Finance on this issue. I believe that some efforts will be necessary. We are in the middle of the financial balance and hope that we will succeed in these issues. On the question of the motion for a resolution on Mystery Shopping: What it criticises is the implementation of the directive, which was laid down in the law, with the Directive being implemented by the main association. What we've done: As supervision, which we are on the issue of the main association, we have interfered twice in the design of directives and twice also contributed to additional discussions between the medical board and the main association. Whether that, if we tell her, is unconstitutional, the VfGH, when the board goes there, will decide. We have brought in our legal expertise in this case, and according to our House, this is just as the main association has implemented – after changes in some details that have previously looked different – in accordance with the law. Let's see what the laws are doing in this case!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23881	Mr Knes. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23902	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you also for the detailed presentations! Mr Loacker, it is, of course, a little different at the KRAZAF. You always stand out and present yourself as a great economic operator, but when it comes to solving the tasks, that is to say, you really fight against the 1.3 billion € threatened payments and a subscriber. You'll come out and say that's a pigry. I agree, of course, on the content of the matter, that this fund, which had already been decommissioned in 1997, was country- and municipality-related at that time with this €1.2 million. Nevertheless, a second public institution was founded at the same time – the Federal Minister has reported in detail – and a dispute has arisen. What would that mean? – If we did not decide the law this way today, the following would happen: This 1.3 billion € must ultimately pay someone again, in the end it would be the taxpayer again. But that cannot be our responsibility. I am perfectly aware of the content of the matter with the Federal Minister. This law must be amended in such a way that the KRAZAF is dissolved and that there is no longer the possibility of these complaints. That is the main reason why this resolution law is acceptable. It is also important to mention that the existing money cannot of course be used somewhere and that no roads should be built by this money, but there are clear guidelines as mentioned by our colleague Huainigg. The money will be used for palliative and hospice supplies where we need it bitterly. I believe that this path has failed much better and more legally than Mr Loacker's unacquainted calls. In the interests of taxpayers, we should not start a dispute again, so that we can fight by €1.3 billion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23947	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23969	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The KRAZAF, the Hospital Cooperation Fund, has its own legal personality and has been an important factor for the health care institutions until 1996. The donation of this fund was made by the Federal Government, the Länder, the municipalities and the social security institutions. Since the introduction of service-oriented health care facilities in 1997, this fund has been disbursed. The KRAZAF became the Federal Health Agency, in the countries of the National Health Fund. As a result, this KRAZAF would be already in pension and history. However, there are different legal opinions, so he has not been dissolved until now. As far as I know, there is also an OGH judgment pending here. This application is intended to serve as legal preparations for the necessary legal measures. The funds still available are to be used for palliative and hospice supplies. The resolution of this fund is intended to increase legal certainty. Let's hope! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e23999	Mr Huainigg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e24022	Mr President. Minister! High house! A year ago, we had an Enquete Commission, during which we discussed very well with experts about what a life-end in dignity can look like until last. The unilateral tenor of all parliamentary parties was that one should not die by the hand of another, that the death accompaniment is very important and that palliative and hospice medicine should be expanded and financially covered. That is why I welcome it as an important step to devote the resources available for this purpose through the resolution of the KRAZAF. Of course, this is not a full funding. 18 million € are needed annually. But it is an important sign of importance and recognition. I think it is also an example for all organisations, as well as for the federal, state and local authorities, when it comes to making their contribution to the financial compensation. An important step in the 51-point decision of this Committee was the establishment of a palliative and hospice forum. I am very pleased that this forum has recently been set up and has two truly capable presidents. Mrs. Elisabeth Pittermann and Waltraud Klasnic are really excellent personalities who have been well involved in the parliamentary committee of inquiry. I think they will do well to coordinate this important issue. At the end of this plenary session, I do not want anything better than – you will hardly guess – that human dignity is enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e24063	The next speaker was Mr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e24084	Mr President. Minister! High house! The KRAZAF is now being handled. There is almost a little heartache about you, not for emotional reasons, but for reasons of sensuality. In principle, the KRAZAF, which was established in 1978, was a comprehensive, federal control instrument. That is what we repeatedly call for: that we should have and introduce national, Austrian-wide financial management in stationary healthcare, i.e. in the hospital sector. So that is, if you look at the KRAZAF retrospectively, that was basically something good, and we should keep thinking: What could you do about the KRAZAF's heritage? We could introduce an Austrian health system in the stationary area, namely if we put together all public hospitals. This would have been a whole series of great advantages, because we could finance it on a national basis. We already have an Austrian structural plan, regional structural planning, we already have all these instruments fixed and finished here. Nevertheless, we have a federal fragmentation that we all know that goes down to the district level, so that various district hospitals are run in the sense of local, regional care in such a way that they can be called into question. You could do a lot better if you present the valid, by experts Concepts are transformed into an Austrian, national stationary health system. Think of the judiciary: That is uniform throughout Austria. It would be inconceivable for each district or federal state to make its own laws in Austria and to determine for itself how regional judicial services, if I may say so, have to look. The same could be used or introduced relatively easily in health care. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, a word on Mystery Shopping: Ladies and gentlemen, I really think that – just as the doctor's chamber has communicated and many colleagues here and outside say it again and again – is a very massive breach of trust! This is a cäsur in the Austrian health care system. We cannot do that, and we must fight it with all the means at our disposal! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e24150	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e24242	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on item 19 on the agenda, first of all to the vote on the draft Federal Law on the Management of the Hospital Cooperation Fund, together with the title and receipt in 1091 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1091 on the use of the remaining funds of the Hospital Cooperation Fund for Palliative and Hospice Supply. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 140.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Franz, Mr Weigerstorfer, colleagues and colleagues on "Combining all public hospitals to an Austrian Hospital Association (ÖKHV). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1092 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Karlsböck, colleagues on 'Mystery Shopping' through social security. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:45:14]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-27-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00123_d8e24349	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1625/A(E) to 1666/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 9.45 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
