ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9234	Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you a good morning and open the 121. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of 117 and 118. Meeting of 16 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 On 1 March 2016, the European Parliament was appointed to the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Deputies Bayr, Katzian, Kristist, Vogl, Mag are reported as prevented. Gisela Worm, Eßl, Obernosterer, Belakovich-Jenewein, Darmann, Dr. Fuchs, Mag. Hauser, Höbart, Hübner, Dr. Kassinger, Dr. Lintl, Neubauer, Barbara Rosenkranz, Brosz, Jarmer, Schenk, Willi and Dr. Franz. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9271	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. [[10:17:48]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9304	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:18:00]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9549	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, to ask the self-employed of Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues with regard to Panama-Leaks: Failures in Austria and the lack of activity of the Federal Government in the fight against money laundering and tax fraud at European and international level are urgent. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9568	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Members Dr. Strolz, fellow Members, have requested the Constitutional Committee to report on the request 348/A of honourable Members Dr. Scherak, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (Determining the professional competence of ministerial candidates) a period of time until 18. ==References== Furthermore, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debate on the urgent request; the vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. The request for urgent action will be made at 1.15 p.m. I announce that this meeting will be held in full-length by ORF III starting at 1.15 p.m. I am now interrupting the sitting until 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9619	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. [[13:16:20]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on Panama-Leaks: Failures in Austria and the lack of activity of the Federal Government in combating money laundering and tax fraud at European and international level (1620/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9655	We arrive at urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1620/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9860	The Federal Minister is in the house, was informed to me, but obviously not yet in the meeting room. [[Federal Minister Schelling is just taking his place on the government bank.]] I welcome the Federal Minister and give the floor as an applicant to Mrs Klubsitzer, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, on the grounds of the urgent request. Mrs Club President, your speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e9890	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Finanzminister! This giant data leak, which has come to light from a single law firm in Panama, actually gives an incredibly bad insight into who is behind letterbox companies, who can move like his money, how this almost dense facade works for the top rich percent worldwide. And it's a terrifying system. I think it is also necessary to express respect and recognition to the journalistic/journalist network, which is driven by hundreds of millions of pages, evaluated 14 million records, and de facto presented a system that cannot be described as a global evaporation industry. And that is a global mega problem from our point of view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Money is shifted and hidden there at the expense of the population, from economies and from states. Much of it is obviously legal, but much of it is not. It is about tax avoidance on the one hand, but it is also about tax fraud. It's about tax evasion. It's about washing black money out of corruption, washing black money out of crime. It's about terrorist financing. It's about drug trafficking. It's about trafficking in women and girls. It is therefore also a matter of quite, very big crimes, which should be fought with all the strength and with all the sharpness. I think we agree quite well that there is something behind these smart law firms, which in fact represents a huge political challenge, with which obviously large banks, including from Austria, in cooperation with letterbox companies and law firms, can make money shifts and therefore de facto also enable terrorism and money laundering, with which they are placed under one ceiling. I think the cause of the problem – which was often controversial in this House, but that is to say again – was the following: By 2007, there was also a very strongly ideological discussion on the need for deregulation. I can still remember, “there is no alternative”, it has always been called. And these are the consequences: neoliberal deregulation strategies both in the US and at European level and in the European Union in their legislative instruments. How much money is actually lost to the states, how much the economies are really lost, can only be very difficult to appreciate. But the numbers that are called there that are valued are really adventurous. It is €5 800 billion that is to be parked in such letterbox companies offshore. And that's a very dramatic measure: Moving money at the expense of the population and states. On the other hand: We know the problems in Europe, there are many countries where social reduction is currently taking place, where far too little investment is being made in education, where no countermeasures can be taken against the economic situation, where there is far too little investment to improve the labour market or also the economic situation, due to the burden and because of the tightness in many budgets. Money that is urgently needed is not available. The worst, of course, is unemployment, especially youth unemployment, which is 50 percent in some European countries. - That's the one side. On the other hand, we are said to have €5 800 billion, which are parked there. Against this background, in front of this sheath, one would like to say that with all the emphasis, with all the sharpness and with all the hardness against this system of the global evaporation industry, the money-shipping industry is being carried out, both by the European Union and Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, that is not the case. And this is the problem we want to talk to you about today, Minister of Finance. After this network of journalists has published all this case and all the details... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] – True, there will certainly be a lot more interesting. There's going to be a lot more on us. However, I wanted to respond briefly to Mr Finanzminister's reaction to how he responded when it became public. And this reaction, honestly, scared me, I didn't understand it. In the sense, you have said: I don't understand the excitement, I don't understand the hysteria, it was known that there are letterbox companies in Panama. It is already very annoying that you cannot understand these – under quotation marks – “rejoicing”, as you have described it. I can understand them very well, I can understand them very well. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] The public outrage is not only justified by the fact that de facto tax failures are to be complained at billions, but it is also based on an insane injustice, on a systematic governance right. The small ones, the workers, workers, employees, small and medium-sized enterprises must pay their taxes week after week, month after month, in some cases every Greißler needs a register. And then there is a caste of few rich, an elite, an elite in Europe that can move its wealth from land to land, and nothing is done about it. I can understand the outrage to 100 percent, but I can't understand your reaction in any way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] After all, an investigation committee has even been set up in the European Parliament. I might also have expected that we would have expected you to have your own initiative to present your proposals in Parliament. There has been no more financial committee for weeks, there has been no opinion from your side, which is actually being taken seriously and which can actually see something from this pioneering role that Austria is supposed to play. That is why we have also requested this special meeting. We would like to talk to you about all this in detail today. I think we agree on one point: tax collection is not a self-evident – of course not – but rather a political objective, a social task that is pursued. Especially in Austria, a country with a high tax and tax rate, this is, of course, a subject. However, in Europe we still have a very, very worrying situation – I have mentioned it before – there is no means of investing in order to get the very bad situation on the labour market, the economic situation in fact. So it's not a self-interest, that's not a question. However, it is up to these persons to make a greater contribution to tax justice, and all measures must be taken in all strictness and hardness, including sanctions in all strictness and hardness. The context is quite bad – really bad – what you realize when you look at politicians that present-day heads of state or their strawmen hide their assets in these letterbox companies: Putin, Assad, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, the Saudi-Arab King's House, but also oil trading companies that secretly supplied the Assad Air Force with kerosene, which in turn terrorized and murdered the civilian population with fascist bombs. All this is hiding behind him. And that's insanely ungustical. Eastern European leaders, whether this is Kazakhstan, is Ukraine, can also invest with Vienna's accounts and Vienna's banks offshore, as it were. We now demand from you with all reticence: Please, finish these global hiding games, with all vehemence and with all the sharpness and also with all sanctions! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In recent years Austria has not just been excellent, we all know that. Always at the last of the pushers, always when the international criticism of OECD and others has become so sharp that Austria could not get out, was acted and acted. Although this has improved, it is not a question, but we are still far away, since we have a leading role or a leading role to play. On the contrary: Austria, together with Luxembourg, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, was such a thing as the Panama of the European continent and for many years was proud to resist all interference and all the preparatory work that has been done at European level. Austria was very, very proud of it for a long time. I remind you: Austria has blocked the automatic exchange of information for years, and Austria was the last Member State of the European Union, which ultimately agreed to the automatic exchange of information on tax issues. This long list of sins has confounders. This was primarily the ÖVP finance ministers. However, there have also been some very unpleasant situations here in Parliament, during which it was prevented from looking more closely at money laundering, namely the 2008 Banking Investigation Committee, which had just been turned off than it was about large money laundering cases in the Raiffeisen sector and also in the Hypo Alpes-Adria. Unfortunately, this is also the sad scapegoat in this house. We should look at the current situation with all our criticism and energy. And I am sorry to say to you, Minister of Finance, that the failure continues. The most important thing you need in this sector is transparency. And transparency is not available in many ways in Austria. Think of the possibility of hidden trust! I could hardly believe this myself, but there can be some of it achieved through oral agreements – that does not even need the form of writing – that the economically beneficial owner, the owner, can be recognized. This opens a barn door to circumvention and abuse. And I wonder why you haven't done this yet. Transparency is one of the most important things, the most important objectives in the fight against money laundering. In Austria, with the hidden trust in fact, there is essentially a huge possibility of circumvention. The same applies to foundations; also for foundations there is a significant lack of transparency. I have not noticed the extent to which it would be necessary to impose severe sanctions on States that allow offshore companies. On the contrary, Austria did not participate in any way until 2015 when it came to the so-called blacklist and did not even take over the list of the Commission, which has been compiled from all country lists – 18 countries have cooperated, Austria has not. Now you've got 5 on the 5th. Interestingly, April 2016, that is, a few days ago: Austria has installed the most stringent regime in Europe in terms of money laundering. – That surprises us quite a bit. They have certainly also read the “profile” article of the weekend very carefully; what appears there is the state description of a system that still has a huge problem with money laundering. Journalists in the “profile” go so far as to write: “In Europe, in the eyes of governments and authorities, a huge amount of money must be washed – if the country with the ‘severe regime’ already has its dearest need with it – – with money laundering. Yes, and we would have liked to hear something from you today, Minister of Finance, for obviously this report is still at the raw stage, but there are assumptions that the report, when it is published in June, will be extremely critical. Putting yourself on the sun's side here and saying it's all great, it's all lying, we have the strictest regime in Europe, this global challenge that we have to face is not at all adequate. If Europe really has a crisis, it still exists in this financial sector and still in this systematic inequality of a group of people who can obviously address another group of people who de facto maintain the welfare state and the social state. That is also the unjust thing about the situation. Every worker, every employee, is de facto charged the tax at the end of the month, and there are still possibilities to avoid this in such a large style and scale. Clearly, it is not only the political and economic elite of Europe, but it is now far into the middle class. And I fear that this disintegration will lead to a de-olidarization in societies and that the medium term will pose a huge threat to our cohesion, if not with all the emphasis, with all the sharpness, with all the hardness against this situation, against this systematic evaporation industry. We have now prepared a very precise request. As I said, it would have been possible to make an opinion or a statement from your side and to propose to Parliament personally what needs to be done in response to Panama Leaks. A special meeting was needed to this end. Our precise request is aimed at several levels, namely at the national level, where the homework is finally to be done as far as transparency is concerned, at the European level and also at the international level. I agree with you on one point, namely that there is a great deal to be done internationally and globally. But this must not be used as an excuse for the fact that your own homework is not done, that transparency is still possible in Austria, that it is still not clear at European level in which group you are now involved – with the brakers and blockers, in the middle field or really in the front. We want Austria to be on the front line, in fact, becoming a pioneer country in the fight against money laundering. In the light of the fact that it is so serious and cruel things that are financed by it, I would have expected you to go more offensively into this subject. For years, the ÖVP Finance Ministers – I have already mentioned it – have been awarded by brakes and blockings. You have, we must admit, a certain different tonality. However, it must not be overlooked that in many areas inactivity, braking and blocking continue to prevail and that far too little focus is being placed on the real challenges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] – You can speak and then explain the long ÖVP sin registers: Why have the ÖVP finance ministers been proud for years: We do not lift the banking secret, there is no opening of accounts in Austria!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Together with Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg, Austria was indeed a villain state. And that is to be denied... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Sure!]] – Yes, that’s the truth! That's the truth! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They're having a hard time, but it's the truth. You can explain this here today, all the shortcomings and why so many in the area have been delayed for years. [[Abg. Wöginger: Now we know how you think!]] – You can calm down a bit and then get into a serious discussion here at the speaker’s desk. Some things have been dragged away for years. There has been information from Germany, the CD from Liechtenstein, the Lagarde affair; Austria has for many years hesitated to collect Austrian data actively and actively take action against it. It's just a fact. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] So, Minister of Finance, I would like to conclude by expressing my wish for your activity. We wish you activity. - You're still so excited about the ÖVP. I don't understand. That's a fact! – Yes, 214,000 letterbox companies, also via Austrian banks, also via Austrian accounts, oligarchs from Kazakhstan, oligarchs from Ukraine, as well... [[Abg. Lopatka: After apologising, “Sirk State”?! Please!]] [[Abg. The President is silent again.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10062	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, since the speaker said she was coming to the end, I did not want to interrupt her in her speech anymore. But it is true that I give you, Mrs. Club Chairman Glavischnig, a call for order for the expression ‘Schurken State’. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Lugar.]] [[Abg. Kogler: “former villain state”! That's impossible!]] – There is no need for agreement on this because it is clearly regulated on what terms we agreed on in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Kogler: In a series with Liechtenstein, Switzerland! This is an impossible presidency!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are still speaking briefly, and then the statements by Mr Finanzminister on your introductory opinion follow. – Mrs. Club Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10123	I quote because She has been so excited now, again the “profile” of this week: “There was a time when there was actually still a secret in banking secrecy, there were savings books anonymous and securities accounts as well. A time when no one is concerned about trustees or economics The legal person behind the briefcases and foundations shredded and lubricating money payments abroad could be deducted from the tax. A time without international data exchange, without central account registers, without identification obligation, without money laundering suspicions, without financial market supervision. The time when Austria together with Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein formed a kind of Panamanian enclave of continental Europe. And it was also really proud of it.” I don't think there's anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10160	On the issue of an opinion, Mr. Schelling on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Mr Federal Minister, your statements should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10186	Madam President. High house! If you're quoting me, then right! I'd expect you to be the club chairman. I didn't say I liked it, but I said, What surprises me is the excitement of 40 years later that there are letterbox companies in Panama. – You probably knew that too, Mrs. Club Chairman. [[Abg. Fekter: The Greens don't like Austria!]] We'll see what's coming out. In some areas, if that is true, what should be inside the data, you will still be surprised and may be surprised as much as what you are now so illegal is used by many. [[Abg. Fekter: Greenpeace, for example!]] There is supposed to be, so they told me now at the meeting in Washington – I don't know because I don't have the data available – there are obviously also organizations that also carry out activities in various areas with these offshore companies. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] If that is the case, then the first thing I need to do is to check – and to add value to that – whether this procedure is in accordance with the laws. And if it conforms to the laws, one would have to change the laws, but then they have made that legal, whether it is a company or anyone else. All that is illegal is to fight, one hundred percent. There can be no excuse at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In your application, you will also have issues that have already been dealt with. I find this very exciting in that you have, for example, the increased testing capacity inside. – We ourselves have announced that we are significantly increasing the number of auditors. They demand a reduction of punishment instead of a penalty exemption in the case of self-punishment. – We have the rule that self-advertisements are only possible with penalty payments and are only possible once again and not in the repeat case. They call for a tax non-recognition of companies established only for the purpose of tax optimization. – This has been regulated in Austrian tax law for a long time. So if there is such a crazy urgency, I would have expected you to address these issues that have already been dealt with accordingly. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We come to the fore again!]] – Yes, you can explain it again. And I can explain it again. The fight against fraud is also an interesting issue in that we have put in place many measures to combat fraud in the framework of the tax reform. And these measures, which were put in place, were strongly and sharply criticised: that it would go too far and all possible suspicions would be generated. – It says that many of those who have criticized us for half a year now suddenly call for aggravation. That's why I said from the beginning: We will work at European and international level to ensure that the tax havens are drained. And, Mrs Clubobfrau, these tax havens are not only in Panama, they are also in Europe, they are in America. Showing your finger to others is just wrong. Only: If there is no international regulation, a tax haven will be drained and the next day the next one will be opened. It is therefore so important that we take care of it in the international field. I would like to point out the following, which you have also quoted, the automatic exchange of information. In October and December 2014, at the public meeting of the ECOFIN Council, I called for the establishment of an international trust register. In January 2015, under the fourth money laundering directive, Austria gave a protocol that we do not find the content essential to us in the directive, namely the establishment of international trust registers. What was the thought? – If you make an international exchange of information, but at the end of the day you do not know who is behind it, what should you do with the information? That's why you have to connect this. And in October and December 2014 this was demanded by Austria. By the way: France will reopen the directive – through the terrorist financing process – and we will make the same request there again, and then we will see whether all those who have so far prevented it and now ask for it vehemently are willing to carry these decisions with us. But to blame us for not being active here could have been saved by reading a simple protocol. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The data sets, which are supposed to be available, cover the years 1977 upward. It can be assumed that most of it is no longer comprehensible, and of course it must be made clear that, above all, from 2008 onwards, massive measures have been taken to combat fraud. The fact that other rules applied at the time may be true. If you are still quoting this from ‘profile’, referring to a report that is not yet available, which has to be processed by several ministries, I would also like to make it clear: You will then see in the report that there are two different areas, namely: Has the technical requirements been created? and the area: How effective is the result? In the case of technical requirements You see, we cut off very well. My remarks have been based on the fact that we have put in place all the measures for these technical conditions and therefore have one of the strictest regimes. However, I assume that, as a result of the request for this urgent session, you have probably examined all the regimes across Europe and compared them with Austria to see if we are good or bad. The second issue I would like to put forward is the question of the procurement of data. We have orally and in writing informed journalists, organizations that are inside this network in Austria, that we would like to have the data for analysis. - We don't get it! We don't get them. Now, of course, one can discuss whether it is reasonable that a public-law organization that has data available simply does not issue this data, of which you rightly claim that it could be possible foundations for these tax fraud stories. And, of course, you have to ask yourself: Why is that so? – There are different motives behind it. At some point, it will be possible to find out where the real motives have been. I have no understanding of this, because if a hype is already produced, it would be the right thing to make this data available to the financial management immediately so that we can carry out such analyses. As you know, we have made numerous arrangements to combat tax avoidance and tax evasion. An essential instrument for combating abuses of tax havens is the international exchange of information. By the way, I personally worked to ensure that in this sitting in December Austria incorporates this regulation. And, of course, there has been international tax exchange data for a long time as such cases occur. They also mentioned some of them, including the Lagarde list. When this became known, I spoke personally to the French Minister of Finance immediately afterwards and asked that we get the Austrian relevant data – and we also got it. [[Abg. Rossmann: A little late requested!]] – We didn't ask for them late, Mr Rossmann. You too would do well to stick to the facts. [[Abg. Rossmann: There's a request from us that you might want to read!]] Since 2009, Austria has been sending bank information for tax purposes via requests from foreign tax authorities. The Act on the Common Reporting Standard, also known as the automatic exchange of information, will be implemented within the EU as from the fourth quarter of 2016 for new accounts and for all other accounts from the reporting period 2017. As from 2018, in line with the OECD Roadmap and G20 countries, automatic exchange of information on bank account data will also be included with third countries. Because you quoted the black lists: I would have no problem at all with developing rules for the black lists, because the black list you quote from the Commission is a black list which is subjectively defined by individual countries. That's where you get it or you don't get it. I don't think that's the right way. At European level, however, it could be said that: All those who do not participate in the information exchange are automatically on the black list; then you have a concrete result, and then everyone can consider whether they like to stay on the black list or not or whether they participate in the information exchange. To monitor the outflows of money from tax havens or the flow, we have jointly decided here in the house a capital outflow-meld law. In order to ensure that account information can be quickly obtained in due process, we have introduced a reporting obligation for Austrian banks. We have introduced – heavily criticized – a central account register. We have facilitated the understanding of these accounts. By the way, one could have gone a lot further, but for data protection reasons you have called for this stricter regulation. However, the data protection of potentially illegal data does not matter here. We've been since 1. In March 2014, the German Federal Criminal Office's ban on the use of money laundering records in financial criminal matters was abolished. We had a ban on recycling so far. The revision of the entire network of the Austrian double taxation agreements for the production of international standard of assistance, which was already started in 2009 on behalf of the banking secret for the purposes of international official assistance, has already been very advanced. Special agreements with tax havens such as Andorra, Gibraltar – you all know – could be concluded to ensure an exchange of information in tax matters. Financial criminal law has been strengthened. For example, self-advertisements in the course of an operational test with a criminal-free effect are only possible if a “storage” is paid in the sense of a tax increase. This possibility is limited to only more self-advertising. We have also made clear rules, and you want to go back with your request and say that there should be a reduction in penalties. [[Abg. Kogler: There are still enough punishments!]] The measures aimed at limiting certain cross-border tax forms have also been implemented. ==References== In March 2014, interest and licence fees paid to group-owned entities are only deductible if they are taxed by at least 10 percent at the receiving company. I want the others to imitate us. And that's why I have to reject your criticism of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But you are actually continuing a tradition of your chairman, you only need to look at what the former chairman said about sanctions against Austria. You start with your criticism where we have taken on a pioneering role. In no other country is this regulated, with us already – and now you are criticizing us for it. ==References== In January 2011, companies and companies will have to inform the financial office of payments that are subject to designation, such as mediation commissions, if payments to a recipient exceed € 100 000 per year or if payments are made to a company taxed at least 15 percent. – Show me the other European countries where these strict rules exist! Then perhaps you would also withdraw the term you used and used with a call for order – which I would think would be very appropriate by the way. Since 2011, entities which, at the request of the tax authority, do not appoint creditors or recipients of a debt/payment must pay a supplement to the corporate tax of 25 percent. – Call me a European country in which there are these rules in this sharpness as in Austria! Interest expenses for a foreign-funded acquisition of capital within a group are not tax deductible in order to prevent unwanted designs such as Debt Push-down. Since 1994, dividends have not been released from an international slot holding since 1994 when the paying company reaches priority passive income and is not taxed or taxed low. Since 2009, portfolio dividends have not been released if the disbursing entity is not taxed at least 15 percent. In international comparison, Austria is one of very few countries with a comparable mechanism against profit-shifts abroad. Furthermore, the Austrian anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regulations already contain measures with regard to the transparency of the economic owner and a ban on holding shares. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many measures, and if someone has opened a normal account by you in recent years, he will have experienced how comprehensive the information and identification requirements have become at the bank in order to be able to open an account. This could also be included in their reflections by all who practice criticism here. And of course, it is logical to make an international exchange of data that you also know who the account belongs to. Therefore, shares must be named and each must identify itself at the opening of a savings account or the opening of an account. You note in your request that Austria and in particular I will not implement measures against tax fraud and evasion until there is high international pressure. – In the context of the discussion on the registers of economic agents: We were the pioneers, and we created the pressure! [[Abg. Rossmann: Automatic Information Exchange: Pioneer?- Oh, my God!]] – It is not about an exchange, it is about the register, Mr Rossmann. We have requested the register in 2014 and have remained alone in the discussions on it. I have already released the automatic exchange of information with the competent bodies at ECOFIN shortly after I took office. It will be implemented and done! And that's why you can't blame me, with all due respect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can of course read the protocols, there it is also written, and it was also online to track that there is this. Clearly, the international discussions you have been discussing are also an important prerequisite for common rules to be established, and only with these common rules will it end up working. The case you also quote, namely the case concerning the National Bank subsidiary Oesterreichische Banknoten- und Sicherheitsdruck GmbH, was discovered by the financial administration and followed accordingly. [[Abg. Kogler: If in Austria the OeNB already Panama accounts...! Those who should control it!]] The German financial administration Nordrhein-Westfalen has purchased data, some of which are affected by this law firm in Panama, which will shortly be handed over to the Ministry of Finance for further processing. That is why I have caused an interministerial working group to be set up – because you meant we should set up initiatives: we have set them up! – which checks whether the national regulations that have been adopted so far – and I have quoted them – are sufficient or whether international experts recommend us to take further action. I think this procedure is the right one. Now on money laundering, which is always a central issue behind these questions – not necessarily, but which must be one and which will, of course, be brought back into the conversation, and there will be many cases of this kind, namely: We have implemented all the Commission's money laundering directives. In 2007, we decided to implement the third money laundering directive. We adopted an antimoney laundering package, the so-called transparency package, in 2010. In 2011, we established the legal basis for an anti-money laundering department in the FMA. We have anchored the abolition of the ban on exploitation in 2014 in the Banking Act. We have introduced a central account register in 2015, and we will forward a comprehensive legislative package – implementing the fourth money laundering directive – to this House by mid-year with the spring legislation. In addition, and this is underestimated, financial market supervision has also taken appropriate measures in the context of the money laundering prevention: Issues and ongoing updates of the FMA High Risk Regulation, supervisory measures of the FMA, introduction of risk-based supervision, administrative procedures, newsletters for supervision of supervised companies. And there is a money laundering officer in every Austrian bank. You can try to transfer more than €10,000 from one account to another, and then try to find out if money laundering is hardened or not hardened. They're working sharp. The FMA is also on site with some tests. We have also been the founding members of such organisations in many areas, including the Financial Action Task Force. We completed increased transparency with regard to the beneficiaries of private foundations in 2010, which is a responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, not the Ministry of Finance. The abolition of the holding shares I quoted in 2011 was also regulated by the Ministry of Justice. We have always pledged Austrian experts to participate in international country audits to review global anti-money laundering systems in order to be able to participate accordingly. I am therefore not going to stop addressing this at international level. But then, so to speak, we're not doing anything here, that's a little bit of a thready story you're presenting here. In 2013, a task force was set up in the Ministry, whose members are IT experts, tax commanders and offshore experts of the large operational audit. These examine the data collected in relation to offshore finance sites and also follow their own projects, such as the Cyprus list and the activities of certain intermediaries of letterbox constructions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the question you raised, which is how we can get better at international level, we will immediately tackle the implementation of the fourth money laundering directive. All registers, all legal entities, in order to create a central register that goes beyond the company's book, will have to be regulated, inter alia, by this Directive. As the information in this register is very sensitive information, this register should not be public. However, anyone who can demonstrate a legitimate interest in information should also be able to obtain an extract from this register. Changes in the company's book itself lie in the competence of the Ministry of Justice. However, it must be noted to trusts that an institution which is spoken of here as offshore trust, which is set up just like these trusts, is not possible under Austrian law. I have referred to the increase in test capacity. The money laundering record will be extended on the occasion of the implementation of the fourth money laundering directive and responsibility will be exercised by the Minister of Justice. The extension of the capital outflow notification law to non-cooperating countries could easily be handled via neighbouring countries, which shows that an isolated national measure is not targeted. The 2016 Audit Account Amendment Act implements the EU Audit Directive and takes legal accompanying measures to effectively implement the EU Audit Regulation. Tax non-recognition of companies established solely for the purpose of tax optimization: Austria has excellent opportunities under tax law, in the Federal Tax Code, not to recognise such constructions. In the case of new companies that need a UID number to prove that they have pre-tax deduction entitlement, there is an on-the-spot check on the company's headquarters and the management of the company according to risk criteria. As you know, Austria has been working for over ten years to ensure that the reverse charge, which is a turnaround of the VAT system, actually achieves a ban on carousel fraud at the VAT level, that this reverse charge also comes. As far as I am aware, on Friday this week the Commission will present a proposal in two directions. We'll check him if we can see these possibilities. At European level, the country-by-country reporting story is being pushed forward; this is already being implemented in the context of spring legislation. It is essential that, as a result of a directive already politically accepted in the ECOFIN proposal, these business data become available to financial administrations. The implementation of an effective sanctions regime against countries that do not comply with the G20 tax transparency standards is imperative and is required by us. With regard to transparency of tax deals, it is important that all countries also report their exceptions, these rules, and that they may only be adopted in full compliance with tax law. In this respect, Austria is a country that has hardly any ruling rules. If you remember what happened in other countries of the European Union, from Double Irish to other things, you know what I am talking about here. I have therefore committed myself at EU level to the exchange of rules. The corresponding legal bases for the rotation exchange are also implemented in the spring legislation. I therefore fully support the European Commission's efforts to combat tax avoidance practices. I also support these projects because, as you say, it is not feasible to argue politically that one can use this opportunity and the other cannot. And that is why it will be necessary for us to continue our efforts to do so. As far as the international level is concerned, I have already mentioned the fourth money laundering directive, which needs to be opened up from my point of view, so that we can actually amend this protocol, which we adopted on 21 December. Introduced in the COREPER, the money laundering directive, which is an internationally networked trust register for the identification of ownership. I have already mentioned the call for the establishment of a black list. We will be there immediately if there are clear criteria after which you will get a black list. You may have heard that Austria was also on a black list, interestingly for reasons that are not comprehensible, and now the black list of this country has been taken down again. What we support is the programme for the development of tax and customs administration, and we support any measure proposed by the OECD in the framework of BEPS. However, it will be necessary to translate these proposals and suggestions from the OECD into valid law. Whether this is done at European level or that of national law is put on the table. The Federal Ministry of Finance actively supports international measures that contribute to the improvement of anti-money laundering systems across Europe but also at a global level. This also includes the possibility that we send experts in some countries to produce similar standards as in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that over the last one and a half years a number of measures have been taken at national and international level to address and counter this issue accordingly. But it will be necessary to clarify, Panama is not an individual case. These cases happen in Delaware in the USA, which probably happens somewhere on Virgin Islands and – I do not exclude this either – in some European country. If we want to do something together in this area, it is our task to work in support of this implementation at European level. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10380	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10407	Mr Federal Minister, I think the Green Group has no reason to say that everything you have said is wrong. On the contrary, Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig has explicitly said that one or the other has become better in the last one, two, a maximum of three, four years. But what culture is that embedded in? The point that will at least be looser, even if we do not want it to be a priority, is the claim that Austria would have the strictest money laundering rules. We will deal with this immediately; but I am also concerned with this culture, which has ruled in Austria for many years and for decades, and which you, who really do something – unlike all your predecessors – do not take away anything from you. The Financial Action Task Force, FATF, you are referring to has just been working on the raw report you have referred to – and we are going to address it – and this sees massive deficits in the fight against money laundering in Austria. He hasn't even been published yet – and now it comes: He's squatting around in four ministries to be hidden back there, like all the critical reports of this kind, from the OECD and so on, until now the practice. That is the problem and not the solution! And it is true as far as the units in the Ministry of Finance are concerned, that the report is better off. But in the other resorts? We might also have been able to quote another minister when it comes to the fight against money laundering. The Ministry of Finance is not the only one. Ministry of Economic Affairs: A devastating finding! That's what we're going to do. Ministry of Justice: Justice, jurisdiction, convictions – minimally compared to other countries! A lot of news – almost no convictions! That's already in the headline. What are we talking about? Not to mention the Ministry of the Interior as far as the money laundering office in the Federal Criminal Office is concerned. Not that they would not bring anything together there, but they say themselves – highly up-to-date in this report that you have not brought with you today – that they, the money laundering agency, have human problems to deal with the whole thing at all. And for the big suspicions, there is no news at all! There are even the films printed by the internal debate. Please be concerned about today’s “profile” where those write of “careful obligations”, but: No suspicion on the biggest cases! Not even a suspicion – and accordingly no condemnation! They don't have enough staff, they say. In honesty, this says the spokesman of the Federal Criminal Office! And this is also part of it – and not only the partial improvements in the Ministry of Finance. That is why I also said that there is little reason to hack around on you in some form – that was not the subject at all – on you personally. The point is that you have moved out there and said: the – yes, correctly quoted: probably – toughest money laundering regulations in Europe or in the world. But we're a long way from that. Now we'll talk about the long-term culture in Austria, why it's actually logical that it can't be like this: Until a few years ago – and this is unfortunately the case – black and red governments have moved in Schurkenmanier on a level with Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Switzerland, and like all of them in Europe, and also with Panama. The statement was completely correct...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10461	Mr Kogler, I give you an order for the expression ‘in Schurkenmanier’. [[Abg. Kogler:... in Schurkenmanier...! – Don’t give me anything from the ten minutes I have to talk about!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10500	Yes, in Schurkenmanier; I stay with it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's impossible! Now you can imagine how the investigation committee is doing! [[Abg. Rädler: Is the Van-der-Bellen-Man?]] [[Abg. Lopatka: This is the “home” of Mr. Van der Bellen, the“ home ” he plays!]] In any case, this is the chronology that Austria has to demonstrate, and I will now prove to you in what environment this is happening. That would be the same as if you were to say, three years ago Simmering played in the Vienna Ostliga and now they are the first in the world rankings. That's a total nonsense, we can't sell it here! That's not possible – let's look at the chronologies! – because, when it came to the interest rate directive at the European level, where there were minimal stories of automatic data exchange in it, Austria – even if it is now there – was the last state in Luxembourg to clear the way here, not only that we did not recognise it for ourselves, we also blocked in Europe the opening of negotiations with other tax havens, with these darkening zones in the world, so that nothing happens! That's the facts! And when we look at what happened to Raiffeisen, as well as to the Hypo Alpe-Adria, by the way, until recently, the mint took place: What do you think the whole money disappeared? – Of course to offshore centres, to Liechtenstein, Cyprus, also Panama. We see it in the modest files that have been transmitted. There has been far too little happening to this day! And that doesn't surprise me either with the culture. You and you, with your red-and-white tie, exactly, strangled the investigation committee when we were with Raiffeisen and with a 400-million money-laundering case. That's the way it was! And at Hypo Alpe-Adria you didn't even know who the money laundering officer is! That might be better now, but I'll tell you, too. The new FMA doesn't come after either! The FMA complains for itself that they're not coming. They're doing some systemic tests, and that's it. That's nice when they run to Hypo Vorarlberg and go to Raiffeisen. It's already clear what's been going on. But in the UK, the Minister of Finance – there is another legal situation in which we have sent the supervisory authorities off and once asked what is the matter in all the banks. I'd like that from our FMA, too. – In addition, the Minister of Finance has the right to obtain these things by means of information. At this point, the Authority is not so independent. But these are quite different measures! And in Austria it was year and day that the banks played there. We've seen it! And that's not just about small tax refugees, it's about big crimes, the Ostoligarchen – quite clearly. There, where you turned the committee off, it has been clearly seen that they have not only hidden the millions. Why do you think Mr. Firtasch is still sitting here in Vienna? It has also been seen that the oligarchs are not reluctant to commit order murder. That's the number we're on the way with! Until a few years ago, they all rented into the hotels on the Ringstraße because they found such a great zone with us! But what did politics do? – We started investigations somewhere in a historical time window, but Raiffeisen has made it hard to drive. The top of Raiffeisen has even said – that is inconceivable, usually there is something like that only in carnival, but unfortunately it is serious – they, Raiffeisen, complain to Parliament because we are conducting investigations there. Where do we live?- Oh, my God! – But that’s exactly how it happened: that you fell by. And instead of the Minister of Finance having submitted the files back then, he held them back and blackened them because we were always on it. And that's not been that long. Just as it just happened recently that after these various Leaks – Bruno Rossmann will still talk about it – there have been house searches throughout Europe and the half-world, after the Liechtenstein CD affair, but also others, while in Austria the acceptance of the data has been refused for months! That was the ÖVP's system! – And so it could continue at any time. The banking secret, which should have been loosened against international tax fraud, has been defended with teeth and claws. Mrs Fekter said in mid-2013, at the end of her term of office – and as I said, it was about international fraud: Where do we come from when we do so, because then every bank employee at the beer table tells anything about the accounts?! – That was the level of debate! And that's not long ago. I don't understand why things should be different overnight. And to the note bank daughters mentioned by you: Yes, there has already been the FMA or anyone to investigate, just: The central bank itself, which could and should be involved in on-site checks, has entertained subsidiaries that have paid bribes in Eastern Europe and Syria for their comical business. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Insanity! Incredible!]] That's completely absurd! And the same people are still sitting there – at least at least – and should now investigate. That is why it is so necessary that we pay attention to a total change, and that is why the concept of former villain state was entirely correct. That's just the way it is. [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] It is! There you can...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10588	Mr Mag. Kogler, you have been a Member for so long that you know exactly that you also get an order call for this kind of formulation. I would ask you, as a long-term Member of Parliament, to act in the same way as we do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10608	This is not very helpful because it only leads to you not knowing the difference between the terms. And I'll stick to exactly what I said. In addition, I add that we now have to turn to the modern principles – there are some approaches there, but at most half way – which are there: maximum transparency, everywhere – Austria will only be able to appear more credible if we have cleared everything away – and hard sanctions. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Of course it is also about these bodies that these countries in the world can also be subject to sanctions – that is absolutely clear! – just as the companies and banks in Austria are constantly maintaining business relationships there.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10639	Member, you now have to write the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10654	Thank you. - If you want, that's all right. Austria should really become the pioneer state in this matter. However, it will need a lot more than before. Let us present the reports that are critical and make a parliamentary working group, because the government alone is not to be trusted!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10692	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10713	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Panama papers have not really surprised us much in the substance, because tax havens, letterbox companies, we have unfortunately known these processes for a long time. The quality of Panama Papers, however, is the fact that names appear again, that once again people who use these tools begin to fear and self-advertise themselves. We already had offshore Leaks and Lux Leaks before and as all these publications have said, and it is also good and right that the G20, the EU and other international institutions are now also committed to this issue and agree that tax havens must be drained and tax evasion must be fought vehemently. However, we have already heard this from Lux Leaks and Offshore Leaks, and we are hearing it again now – it is true that there have been improvements at international and also in Austria. Since 2009, the OECD has been leading the world's fight for transparency and the exchange of information with many other institutions. As the Minister of Finance has already mentioned, Austria has also taken important measures: The financial penalties have been doubled, we have introduced the central account register, we have put more staff in the tax authorities, and we have also reformed the Penalty-Free Rules in the case of self-admission. But all of this was done only by the pressure from the outside, the OECD, and the pressure from the inside, especially from the social democratic side. But the Panama papers also show one thing: that the fight has not been enough so far. We must strengthen the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance at international and national level. We do not just want to reduce this, but in the future we want no tax fraud, no money laundering and the like, because tax fraud, money laundering and tax evasion are not a cavalier offence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fight against tax evasion and against tax avoidance, as it is sometimes called depressing, is a fight for more justice. Most of the population simply delivers its taxes in good time and in good time. At the same time, however, there are some super-rich, large-scale companies, multinationals and international corporations or individuals who believe that they can do everything they can, and these unfair patterns of behaviour can no longer be accepted in the future. In the European Union alone, €1,000 billion is missing annually from the Fiscus and the State through tax evasion and tax avoidance – money that could be urgently needed and better used for other things. So what do we think we should do? – At international and European level, stricter measures must be developed in the fight against money laundering and tax-reducing models. This includes capital traffic controls for transfers to and from tax havens. These include European co-ordinated sanctions against tax havens, such as the ban on letterbox companies and foundations, especially on constructions where the authorised ones remain anonymous. This includes the disclosure of all profits and the payment of taxes from cross-border companies. It is also true, however, that we need to think and discuss what we can do in Austria. For example: The creation of a transparency register where Austrian citizens can declare themselves to be economically entitled when they have letterbox companies in tax havens, because if they are not declared, it is clear that a tax offence lies behind them. A black list of non-cooperative countries can also be created at international level, but as long as it is not created there, it can also be created at national level. And we also need to talk about what is happening to those people who understand the business model “tax evasion”, the business model “letterbox company” as their business model, namely those bankers, auditors, asset consultants, lawyers who also implement these models. And we also need to talk about whether the Austrian money laundering office really works well. In view of this discussion, I believe that an evaluation in this area is also crucial. I am therefore saying this because we also need to be clear that Austrian companies and banks have also come to the Panama Papers. They have also appeared because the Austrian financial centre is not as clean as we would like it to be, otherwise the Hypo Vorarlberg and others would not have appeared there. [[Abg. Kogler: So!]] Economic policy is also clear: A clean financial place is a crucial financial place in times like this and a crucial factor for the economic location. If one feels that the clean financial place is an advantage, then we in Austria too, I think, must do a lot more. But I would also like to look back and say: There is a party here in the house who has not agreed to any of the measures taken so far against tax evasion and tax avoidance, and that is FPÖ. The Freedom Party voted against the Account Register and the Account Statement in July 2015. In February 2014, they voted against the withdrawal of the prohibition of recovery and on the same day also against the restriction of the deductibility of interest and licence fees. By the way: The The same is true at European level, where the only one that group voted against the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry to evaluate the issues concerning Panama Papers, which the Freedom Party belongs to. I find it remarkable how much one tries to make the wall from the FPÖ of tax evasion and the tax avoidance that tax fraud makes – even here in the house to make the wall. However, I am convinced that we will find a majority that will continue to stand for a clean, transparent financial place in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10777	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10798	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Oh, my God! Today, we are discussing media coverage of Panama Leaks, the reasons and the possible consequences. In fact, this discovery only shows what we all knew: that there are such things. Austria or our government – without the need for this report – has been working for some time on the detection and drying of these methods. Our former Minister, Fekter, has already called for the disclosure of anti-trust provisions for all in the course of the Cyprus crisis. This is now also represented by Austria within the EU. These are processes where we are leading, where we are pioneers. I thank you for that, because the economic owner must be known. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] But let's try to present the issues: What is an offshore financial place? – These are low-tax locations, high levels of confidentiality and secrecy, minimal financial supervision, high legal certainty, political stability and high education standards. Many countries that have this requirement have developed a market with offshore companies. Who uses such a marketplace? – people who force money laundering and terrorist financing; People who want to hide income and assets from the state and from its taxation, the classic tax evaders, but also people who no longer want to accept the high tax burden of their resident states and who want to practise legal tax reductions; also people who want to invest their legally earned assets internationally and want to protect themselves from possible expropriation in developing countries; also people who do not use the inheritance and divorce rules in the home countries... [[Abg. Pillow: Yes bravo!]] [[Abg. Pilz: recommend Panama?]] I don't recommend it, no! But these are the market methods. [[Abg. Pilz: What do you recommend: Liechtenstein?]] Such a market place also uses people who do not agree with the rules of inheritance and divorce in their countries of residence, because private autonomy is too much involved; undertakings that need international liability restrictions to carry out their legal transactions; People who need to finance a neutral soil, because it is not meant to be East or West; also organizations that manage donations internationally or other revenue, so as not to get into the smell of West or East, North or South. [[Abg. Lugar: Who wrote this to you?]] So you see, a lot of things in these offshore societies are abominable, belong turned off, belong off. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we cannot intervene in the national laws of other countries. The Austrian government and the Austrian companies and especially the financial industry are committed to the effective fight against money laundering and tax fraud. However, we can only influence the international and national framework conditions that affect the co-existence of our citizens and businesses with such states. But we cannot, as has already been said, influence the national rules of other countries. Many measures have already been implemented or are being implemented in the EU and at national level. I'll start with the topic of money laundering. – I think all here in the hall and 99.9 percent of the Austrian population find money laundering and similar practices abominable and believe that they belong to turned off. ==References====External links== EU Money laundering Directive, which runs until 26. The following adjustments to national law are to be carried out on June 2017: A risk-oriented approach is reinforced by particularly high due diligence in transactions with such countries; certain tax offences are included in the money laundering business catalogue, which significantly increases audit obligations for banks; Member States have registers of economic owners and, if possible, make accessible internationally; Sanctions are heightened and natural persons are also published. ==References====External links== EU money laundering directive is already being implemented a large part of these demands or wishes. The Ministries are under negotiation, and if we make the implementation of this directive before then, if we do so until 1. Bringing together January 2017, we set an international mark that Austria is massively opposed to money laundering. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On tax evasion: It must be fought with all means to prevent large-scale tax fraud. There, too, Austria and the EU have already implemented a lot. The Minister has already listed the measures, such as double taxation agreements and the exchange of information. Profit transfers to foreign countries have also been severely hampered by the prohibition of deductions of interest and licence fees as well as commissions, and certain supplements to corporate tax have been introduced. Due to the so-called Mother-Daughter Directive, it has become uninteresting to make profits in low tax states, and the distributions have been made unattractive. The re-codification of income tax rights provided for in the government programme will close unwanted gaps. However, we need to take care of one thing: 99 percent of Austrian companies do not need new rules. But if, in order to reach one percent, we are once again creating major bureaucratic obstacles and regulations that 99 percent of entrepreneurs have to follow, then Austria is doing nothing good. On the topics of tax morality and legal tax avoidance: The greater the tax rate, the more we learn about the legal possibilities for tax avoidance. The best weapon against the effects of Panama Leaks is a tax policy with an eye to where performance is worth. [[Abg. Kogler: Here you go!]] Companies would be happy to save themselves the horrendous consulting costs and start-up costs of offshore companies and intermediaries if there was a feeling that performance was worth doing and that there was something left out of profit. On the flaw of aggressive tax planning of some international corporations: It is important to ensure that taxes are transparent. There is a new directive which provides for a transparent presentation of the income taxes of each country. The consumer, the businessman, the citizen should decide: Where do I buy my product, which companies do I use? It will show that the Austrian SMEs and our pilot companies are not on the tax screw down, but that they are the international corporations. We need to adjust our shopping behaviour accordingly. [[Call the FPÖ:Amazon!]] For example. However, I would like to add one more important point to the Panamanian documents. And that's... Data protection is also a fundamental right. Before we carry the information that comes from Panama to the public, we listen to the analysis: Why is this person or this company connected to a mailbox company?, because once the reputation has been matched because you are there, an excuse can never make that right after that, and the damage is inevitable. Therefore, freedom of the press and data protection must be carefully considered against each other, for data protection is also a human right. Financial Penalty Law: We have greatly increased the financial penalties in recent years. If we want to sharpen individual points again, we should consider: This is usually true of the small businessman who may make a mistake. [[Abg. Pilz: This is already a confession, what you are doing! Do you already desire milding circumstances?]] If we continue in financial criminal law, I am in favour of a general revision of the law, where we harmonise the law on economic penalties and the law on financial penalties, where we allow for adjustments to be made not to punish minor mistakes. I am in favour of introducing the disversion or similar things in the financial criminal law as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do we learn from today's session? – It is important that existing laws are respected in enforcement. The 4th. Money laundering directive should be implemented as quickly as possible. International cooperation must be strengthened and promoted. Taxation should also be considered fair for performance providers. National rapid shots are currently not necessary, but the changes are to be made in the international equation. To the two colleagues from the Greens, who unfortunately are no longer here: I mean, to place home love and add to the “Schurk State”, that’s not a theme! [[Abg. Kogler: The “former ” villain state was talking! Do you read!]] We must see that we are doing our work here, that we are fulfilling our commitments here and that we are making international progress on the changes. I would just like to point out the following at the time of implementation: If we all want us to catch the big fish, this must not lead to the net being so tight that no small companies can swim in our pond anymore. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10968	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e10989	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and dear taxpayers at home who listen to our debate via ORF! – If the Minister of Finance has time again, I would like to continue. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] So we meet here at an event in the House, which was demanded by the Greens, in the hope of helping their presidential candidates in the election campaign – that of the candidate, to whom the Greens pay more than € 2 million for his unabated distance from them. [[Abg. Kogler: On current occasion!]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] Whether this is really helpful, I dare doubt. But be it. In general, today's debate – triggered by the publication of the so-called Panama Papers – seems a little hypocritical to me. It is not exactly that tax avoidance, tax fraud and money laundering had only become public since yesterday. And it's not exactly that you need to look far from Panama to see such practices. A small view not even in front of our own door, but in our own Austrian house is enough. When, for example, the annual report by Raiffeisen Bank International was presented in March 2013, it was – oh wonder! – several subsidiaries in the British Virgin Islands, Bermuda, Jersey, Cyprus, Malta and so on. RBI Chief Stepic then had to resign at the end of the same year because his offshore business activities have become public in Asia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] Especially the two beautiful Mediterranean islands of Malta and Cyprus have obviously done so to the local Austrian companies. For example, in order to operate tax-free – in reality, this is nothing but an euphemism for more or less legal tax fraud – one has transferred the company headquarters of XXXLutz Marken GmbH, that is, the former employer of our Minister of Finance, to Malta and in this way saves about €40 million of taxes in Austria. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Less money saved, than in the Mediterranean, another Austrian company – we know that very well – has sunk: The municipal credit, in which the later SPÖ minister Claudia Schmied worked, has carried out her offshore business in Cyprus. The following Fiasco, as we know, has cost taxpayers billions. But even when it comes to money laundering, you don't have to look up to Panama. There are enough examples directly in Vienna, for example the privatisation of the former Semmelweis clinic by the city of Vienna. Mayor Häupl has even traveled extra to Singapore, as we know. Some oligarchs are supposed to have washed their black money over a New Zealand entrepreneur. Also at the Media Quarter Marx – developed by the Technology Agency of the City of Vienna – is the suspicion of money laundering in the room. This suspicion has just been hardened by the Panama Papers. So when it comes to tax fraud, tax avoidance, money laundering and so on, you don't have to look up to Panama, because a look at Austria is enough. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And then it does not really have to wonder if this Federal Government has remained completely inactive, completely inactive in view of the union of the one government partner, the ÖVP, with raiffeisen, completely inactive but also on the other hand with a SPÖ, which has always been the most popular instrument for friending and tax avoidance, ladies and gentlemen! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling]] [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] That's where you can dement... – Yes, you can dement – you don't like to hear that – as you want, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[new calls to the SPÖ]] It is already more than revealing that, for example, ==References====External links== In November 2014, a company founded its own offshore company in the Hong Kong tax haven. By the way, this company is called Cavete, which is Latin for “Guard yourself”, so obviously beware of tax rates! That's why they founded them. Directors of this company are two men named Jens Berendsen and Matthias Linnekugel, who are also the managing directors of ddvg, the German printing and publishing company mbH, which belongs to 100 percent of the SPD and has a consolidated annual turnover of € 77 million. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you look at the links and corporate conglomerates in the Austrian media, publishing and printing industry, where the SPÖ holds either directly or indirectly countless participations, then it is already more than questionable as you yourself keep it, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This will get a completely different quality if you and Klubobmann Schieder talk about the fact that offshore companies are only set up to cover up taxes and conceal criminal machinations. [[Abg. Wittmann: How was the advertising company?]] They clearly speak from their own experience, according to the motto: What I think and what I do, I trust the others. There's a lot of butter going down the red heads! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On every occasion, SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens are very much in favour of the EU, but when it comes to tax fraud and money laundering to the unimaginable extent, Brussels is blind and deaf. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] And instead of taking decisive action against real tax fraud and money laundering, the Eurocrats prefer to try to divert from the real problems with the sluggish abolition of the cash while at the same time decomposing their own citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] I would remind you on this occasion of the call for the FPÖ to create a federal law on freedom to use cash in payment transactions without restrictions. I call on you, but also the viewers who are with us via ORF, to support this petition, which is to be seen on the Parliament's homepage. However, just as problematic as the EU's behaviour is also the relationship with the USA, which is known to be behind the detection of these Panama papers. While the US has forced other states with massive pressure to disclose the financial data of US citizens abroad, this does not happen the other way round. Individual states – for example, I only call Delaware, Wyoming and Nevada – act in a similar way to the well-known tax havens. There would be a real common approach by the EU countries to force the US to cooperate, but unfortunately it does not happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All these processes – whether in Vienna, Bermuda or Panama – have one thing in common: As a result of tax fraud or excessive tax avoidance abroad, those taxpayers who comply with the laws are harmed – and in the final effect all citizens of our state are harmed. That is the truth, and pity for tax fraud is completely wrong in place! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One truth, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that both our federal government and the EU look far too often at these practices – if they are done in a large style. If influential companies, large banks or municipalities operate tax relief, the Federal Government looks away, and the EU looks away if so-called partners or even individual Member States such as the UK continue to entertain tax havens such as Jersey, Guernsey, Virgin Islands and so on on on its own territory. It would be time, at last, to put pressure on states that open doors and gates to tax refugees and money-laundering, not only when small countries such as Liechtenstein are concerned, to provide for severe penalties up to the withdrawal of licences for banks that earn on such transactions. The problems have been known for years, as have the solutions. You'd just have to take it once. But this is something that this federal government – not only on this issue – is obviously particularly difficult.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11194	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11215	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens on the screen at home and at the gallery! We are now negotiating the Panama Papers and their consequences. In fact, I think this is a question of justice that we have to negotiate here. We have a European model of life that we can rightly be proud of. This means prosperity for broad masses, and it also means: Whoever comes into an emergency from illness, fragility in old age or an accident has a social system. We all pay taxes to keep these systems. That they are not properly loaded up and in danger by generation, I will come later. But if we want to finance them, we need, of course, fair funding. That is why Panama Papers, the question of tax evasion and black money, is a question of justice – we are becoming NEOS passionate. Justice will need it if we are to maintain the European model of life. Of us, therefore, there is a clear yes to the consistent persecution of tax offenders, a clear yes to the drying of black money oasiss and a clear yes to combat aggressive tax planning. And here, Minister of Finance, of course, we must become an initiative as Austria. I think that's important. They have brought a lot of things in motion, but I cannot see the right passion – but I would demand passion! Before I look very differentiated to see that you don't pour the child out with the bath: Of course, I do not want water on the mills of those who have a latent anti-economic attitude, because that would be completely wrong. We must not paint black and white on this issue. But we have to be determined. Austria has, of course, been too little determined for many years, even because too many in this old system have benefited from it. I can remember that when we started to create our citizen movement, people came to me who said: You know what, you get 10,000 €, they reach you over the canal islands! That's what you're doing! – That’s what I said: This is a confusion, because first of all I want your money when it is properly generated, and second, we will disclose your name because – this is also a question of justice – transparency is immensely important. Sunlight is the best disinfectant. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The money never came because he obviously says: If I can't give it under my hand, I can't give it! – Only that it was so natural to tell a party founder that he was sent over the canal islands, that it was somehow a dizzy story, but so be it in Austria! That was obvious, of course. By the way, this was the same year that the ÖVP was co-imported with €7 million. We don't know where the money came from until today. This does not give a good light to the ÖVP when such practices were going and going on at the time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's why I think we have to make a determined move forward. I think the initiatives, which Mr Schäuble has also been preparing, make sense over long distances – you have to look at them in detail. And of course we also need to look at aggressive tax planning. Of course, it is for the middle class to despair when an American coffee shop chain sits next to one – ten meters away – which goes home with a tax rate of zero to two percent, because it postpones profits until nothing comes out, and we impose a limit rate of 50 percent on our small and medium-sized enterprises. – That’s to despair, that’s where we have to sit! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's where we have to start twice: First of all, we must push back aggressive tax planning, which is also the subject of many expertise. I mean, not all that was right is also morally okay. It is not okay for you to transfer € 341 million to Malta with license boxes and pay only a percentage of 5 percent tax and have nine employees. Something's wrong. Such things we must consider a lot of morality, too, where we obviously do not come with legal handling. But more than that, I wish we could get there legally. Then we have to work internationally, Minister. There we are NEOS determined Europeans. We need Europe to do this, and we need Europe together for things like that! We must move forward together as a Europe and then put the issue on the agenda in the OECD. We can only solve things at international level, not through national singles. What we can solve nationally is that we bring down the tax burden, which is now the second highest in the EU. This would be infinitely important for the middle class. And it would be a very important thing in the fight against the highest unemployment that we have ever had in the Second Republic, which we must finally turn. [[I would like to congratulate the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] - Thank you. There are some sensible things in the Greens that I believe are absolutely to be done in the issue of justice, for example, that we are networking around the world and publishing registers for the last beneficiaries. I also believe that we should go so far as to say that hidden trusts do not make sense. That was already relatively dubios for the “Kickl-back payments”, and in many other cases it is dubios. I don't think we need that. In this respect, politicians should go ahead with a good example. As a clubman I had a professional ban and had to give up my twelve-year-old company because I pressure from several parties, namely precisely from two government parties who have inquired after the National Council election – including the SPÖ – whether I am still involved. I knew that I had to get rid of the shares in the emergency sale, because if you have the ÖVP and the SPÖ against yourself in Austria as a company, then you will of course have a state ratio of 51 percent and more and their influence up to the last crack of this society. There were people who told me to make a hidden trust. I said I didn't do that because it wasn't honest. This is not honest in this context. We politicians have the hell gone ahead with a good example. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Our problem is that the economy is better connected than politics, and that in times when one is saying that they are not good in the economy. I have a little bit of a problem with that. The Greens' request also breathes a little too little economic kindness, also contains a little too little sense of reality that the economy is just globally networked. I think we should take note of that. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kogler and Mr Rossmann.]] If we had not a global networked economy, then we would have no prosperity and not this quality of life, then we would have You don't wear the pants you're sitting on today – which probably doesn't come from the forest district – then you wouldn't have the neckcloth around and, as I fear, the ÖVP delegates wouldn't have tied these pretty ties even today, because I think they're just a product of a networked economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] It is also important to cultivate this, not in the sense that everything is evil. The European model of life is deeply linked to a social market economy and, as I hope, to an ecological and social market economy in the future. There was no model on this planet that has created more prosperity for large masses than this ecological-social market economy model. That is why I also ask for a differentiated consideration. In conclusion: Of course, we have to take Panama papers very seriously. There are 2.6 terabytes, 11.5 million documents, 214,000 letterbox companies. Our slogan is thoroughness before speed. We must be very determined to lead to consequences. However, we must also take into account populist reflections in this context, otherwise we will pay this with declining prosperity and declining quality of life. Once again the clear confession of NEOS: Drying Black Money Oases, Persecuting Tax Sinders and Fighting Aggressive Unmoral Tax Planning.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11368	Mr Klubobmann Lugar came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11396	High house! We've heard very interesting things today. The interesting thing was what ÖVP said, and she said: Yes, there are a lot of people who do completely illegal things there, but of course there are also those who make this quite legal, and that is why – I have written it down – because they do not want to accept the high tax burden in Austria anymore. - You said that. There are probably many Austrians who do not want to accept the high tax burden anymore. I am thinking specifically of all the wage and income workers who have a high tax burden that they no longer want to accept. Only those do not have the opportunity to set up an offshore company to save their taxes accordingly. That is the point I want to make! But before we go closer into the detail, once for the viewers, how this works – this works relatively easily –: There is a company in Austria that, because it is successful, makes a lot of profit, we say once – to the lighter calculation – 100 million € profit. This company creates a company abroad, and then rents a name or a patent or whatever with a license. This foreign company will then charge license fees of € 100 million – as an example of the calculation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pillow.]] This means that taxes are taxed zero in Austria. Why? Because there's no profit. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In other words, you should have had to pay taxes for the €100 million in about €50 million, afterwards zero. [[Call the ÖVP:27!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: 27!]] It may be that taxes are taxed abroad – 15 percent – because there has been the new law since 2014 that these taxes are taxed abroad. But there is also a possibility of circumvention, how to bring this against zero. Companies like Google show this. Google doesn't even pay 1 percent taxes. This works with such circumvention strategies. Now the question is: What can we do about it? And what have we heard about the SPÖ today? – The SPÖ said: The lawyers, the tax advisors and auditors who help here! That's a moral problem! – Look You, that's not a moral problem at all! The question is what we can do in Austria to prevent this, and there are some things we can do, but we do not want to do anything about it. - That's the problem. Today, the ÖVP has also said a lot of things that could be done. Name: Consumers could boycott this product if it is used morally. Let me tell you one thing: Without a doubt, we could no longer recognize these models in the investigation of the taxes in Austria. Only: You don't want that because you're afraid these companies won't come to Austria. This is exactly the economic promotion programme that goes in the completely wrong direction. They attract companies by opening up the back door to save taxes and thus competing with local companies that pay up to 50 percent taxes. That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That means: Its economic policy does nothing but attract large corporations with the promise to save, to attract taxes via the back door and ultimately to push away on the domestic market all those who have so far paid taxes. – That’s your policy! They are like a jeweler who is robbed every day and complained about being robbed, but leaves the back door open every night. That's exactly the point! This is what you are doing, and you are making it quite aware, because the last tax-change law in 2014 has left this back door open, with the rule that licenses to foreign companies that pay taxes of 10 percent or more can be deducted entirely. You could have closed that door. But since you know this back door from your own perspective very, very well – because the Lutz did not do it differently either, and you know that because you were also involved in it at the time – you have left it open in order not to frighten the corporations, as you think. But what do we have from a company that does not pay taxes? What do we have about it? - Nothing. And that's exactly the point! That means: If companies want to come to Austria and make money here, they also have to pay the most appropriate taxes. That's the point you want out on. They always say: If all pay their taxes, all have to pay less taxes! For this, too, all wage and income taxpayers who are unable to establish any offshore companies would be grateful. If we all finally commit ourselves to paying taxes in Austria, we have the possibility that all will pay less taxes. Then you don't have to think about how to avoid taxes either. If the tax burden is not so high, everyone will also like to pay taxes. We are already at the next point: You don't do that. They can't make that fairness. On the other hand, when you see – and I saw it in the investigation committee – you get really dizzy, which you have allowed the hypo for years, namely to create countless societies all around the globe, just to hide business and to delay profits. That's not finished until today. We would also have the opportunity to say: Home banks simply do not have the opportunity to set up x companies around the globe to ultimately fail control of Austrian financial market supervision. - We could do that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Look, Mrs. Fekter, you're in the government, and then I hear from you: Morals, the Morals! And from the other side, I hear: The evil lawyers! Look, you got it in your hand. [[Abg. Fekter:... This is plan economy!]] – Oh, now the plan economy is coming, now it’s ready! [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] Well, where's the plan economy, Mrs. Fekter? If the state expects all taxes to be paid, it is certainly not a plan economy. I know you want to protect the big corporations, of course. But I'll tell you one thing: The big corporations are not worthy of protection! If they make profits in Austria, then they also have the most appropriate taxes to pay, and if they do not want to, then they should stay at home! [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP]] We have enough small businesses that produce exactly what the big ones produce. They have to pay the taxes and beat around with your laws, with your requirements and the bureaucratic obstacles. You make it easy for the great ones. They are being brought into the country, they are lured into the country with promises, they promote every single job, and the domestic economy is being killed. That's the model you represent! [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of the SPÖ.]] – And the SPÖ makes the wall: I can't understand why you're making the wall of the SPÖ here. The workers you supposedly want to represent cannot create any company abroad to save taxes. Nevertheless, you make the wall. The only thing I heard from your speaker today was that the machinations are immoral and the lawyers – the evil lawyers and tax advisers who allow these models – have to be held accountable. But who opened the door to them? They have also left the back door open for such an effective tax advisor. So close the door! Let's not have a sublime debate here. I don't expect the government to say, "Oh, that's all so terrible!", but she makes laws to prevent that. That is what you are here for, and I expect this to be done in the sense of fiscal justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11555	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11576	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If both I and the television viewers have listened to the Minister of Finance, we had to get the impression that the tax havens are dried, profit shifts are no longer available, Amazon, Google et cetera all pay full and good their taxes. But that's a wrong picture. It is still the case, Minister of Finance, that tax havens, these eclipses, are better than ever before. The example Panama-Leaks is only the tip of the iceberg. It is also the fact that aggressive tax planning continues to flourish as ever. You, Mr. Finanzminister, asked the question at the outset or made the statement that everything that is illegal must be combated. - Well, now I'm telling you: Tax havens, evaporation sauces, letterbox companies, offshore companies may be legal, but the question is: What's behind that? If you know that behind these tax havens is the fact that it is a matter of hiding, of hiding money, of any origin, and if you know – and that is what the tax haven expert Zucman says – that 80 percent of the financial assets in tax havens are withdrawn, then you have to proceed against it. Then you can't say: Only what is illegal must be fought, but one must put the evil at the root, and that is, Mr. Finanzminister, ask the question: [[Congratulation with the Greens]] What do we need letterbox companies for? What do we need offshore companies for? - We don't need them! A further point, Mr Financier: You are pretending to have moved anything possible at national, European and international level in recent months. But that's not the way it is. What was your first response to the Panama Papers? – Your first reaction was: As soon as the data reaches us, as in past cases, we will start to analyze and process quickly. So a thoughtful attitude: Let's wait for what happens, and then let's do something, as in past cases. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Take past cases: the Liechtenstein CD! What did Mr. Molterer do? – Delays to the no longer going! My impression was that he led everyone on this list to the financial office and told him: Please, do a self-advertising! – That was Austrian practice. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] How was the Lagarde list, Mr. Finanzminister? When did you make a request for assistance to France and these countries? – Only when news made these Swiss leaks public. That was 8th. ==References====External links== You have made this request for assistance on February. – And by the way, it would be interesting what happened to this data. What happened? [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] A further point, Mr Financier: In your reactions to Panama leaks praise and praise the transparency of private foundations. There I can only laugh: Annual accounts in the company register? – Not mandatory for private foundations! The economic operators are not listed there. We do not even know how much wealth there is in these private foundations in Austria. That's really what it looks like. – That can only be a bad joke! And if we are talking about inactivity not only in Austria but also at European level, we are looking at two examples from the recent past! The one concerns – you mentioned this – the so-called Tax Rules. There is an exchange of information, but not a public register. Not even the European Commission will be informed of these tax arrangements. – That can't be it then! By the way, I was very surprised today by a statement by you, Mr Finanzminister. There's hardly any tax rules in Austria, you said. When you were asked by the TAXE Special Committee if there were any such in Austria, you were hiding behind the tax secret. Air this secret, Mr. Finanzminister, and let us know what tax rules there are in Austria! Another example: Last week the European Commission presented a proposal on so-called country-by-country reporting. This is about the fact that large companies make more reports about net turnover, number of employees, profits or losses before taxes, tax payments and the like. What do we see there? – If large corporations act in EU countries, there is a reporting obligation, separately for each country. But outside the EU, i.e. for states like the USA, Switzerland – with the exception of some small tax havens, which have obviously been taken out as a reaction to Panama leaks – only aggregated reports need to be made. This is just an invitation to go into the so-called blackout, because the USA and Switzerland are the biggest tax havens. Tax Justice Network's shadow financial index has Switzerland's first place, and the US is third in place, and in between, Hong Kong. Panama will only be in 12 or 14 places sometime, I don't know exactly. But these are examples from the recent past, where I have not seen you, Mr Finanzminister, as someone who is taking active action and who is taking an active role. [[Federal Minister Schelling: But you were there!]] – I wasn’t there, but there’s something like a media audience, Minister. I don't have to tell you: If you want to enforce anything in Austria, at European level or internationally, this is only about public and transparency! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: With the Greens...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Transparency is one of the key issues in the fight against tax havens at all: the announcement in company registers that must be publicly accessible to all last beneficiaries. In Austria, Mr Finanzminister, we did so by means of a corresponding resolution in the previous year, on 7. It was decided in connection with banking secrecy in July. You could have been working there a long time ago. Why haven't you created such a register in Austria yet? If you really feel like a pioneer, then I don't understand that, quite honestly. I also do not understand why you say that the question with the Austrian financial officials and their facilities would be concluded. In our view, this is not complete. We called for more in the then negotiations. Moreover, we have also called for more in connection with the automatic exchange of information, namely the closure of some gaps. Do you know how many gaps according to the Tax Justice Network are contained in the automatic exchange of information and the corresponding decision coming from the USA? – 35 gaps. And here, Minister of Finance, you want to tell us all seriously that the world is all right and that nothing has happened in recent years. If you really want to become a foreman, then you will finally become active, then show up internationally, then fulfill your homework, especially in terms of ensuring transparency! That must be the top one. But also in terms of sanctions, a lot more needs to be done, because transparency alone is not enough. Sanctions may range from the restriction of capital controls to trade bans. - There you can make a name. I think we should finally – and Panama Leaks offers the opportunity – to try – nationally, at European and international level – to dry the swamps of the tax havens. This is more than necessary for reasons of tax justice. I do not see at all why the payers and the small and medium-sized enterprises pay their taxes, whereas the rich and the powerful here and there understand to hide their money in tax havens through the veiling industry and its cover-up actors, tax advisors and the like. We urgently need this money in Austria and in other European countries. Then we do not have to discuss it either, Minister of Finance, whether or not we have to push the people involved in minimum security. Then: Taking the concerns of the young people seriously means, among other things, Barbara Coudenhove-Kalergi did so on 14 May. April, that is, a few days ago, according to the sentence – not to force people in distress and social distress and to discuss them where there are tax privileges. – And this, Minister of Finance, should be dealt with quickly and quickly. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11684	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11706	My predecessor, Mag. Rossmann, of course, is right: What we see in the Panama leaks is only the tip of the iceberg. The subject has been on us for a very long time. Only with which I was able to deal with this pult more than a decade ago, in relation to ever new efforts to produce more back doors. It is not enough to try, ladies and gentlemen, to suit anyone. You can act in concrete terms. Dr. Strolz, on the canal islands there is certainly more than just the €10,000 planned for the NEOS foundation. That's where the head of the authority sits. – Yes, then tell him what the name of the person who has a money somewhere on the Channel Islands is! [[Abg. Stroll: That’s what I’m saying!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You will be offered 10 000 €, and years later you have not even made an advertisement of who the person is?- Oh, my God! Do it now! Open who comes from the Channel Islands to the NEOS and says: You are worth 10 000 €! Do it now, Dr. Strolz! Call the person here and today the Minister of Finance! Then he can examine whether the money is legally located there. So what would be a first step if you were talking about cleanliness and order. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: And here the SPÖ claps! 7 million...! Believe me!]] [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP.]] And when we get to the point: After you, Mr. Ing. Lugar, from a list named Stronach. Where does he live, Mr. Stronach? Where's his tax residence? Where is he? When, then, does it have to leave Austria again, so that it is not fully taxable? When, then, does he have to relinquish the mandate in order not to be fully taxable? Where does he explain how much tax? – You should explain this once if you are the STRONACH list today. [[Intervocations with representatives of ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are already there, Mr. Engineer: You have stood up as a BZÖ member when a certain Karl-Heinz Grasser has implemented such things, the same Karl-Heinz Grasser, whom we know not only as a FPÖ finance minister, but also the manager at Meinl, where the fee for the management has flowed? - To the Channel Islands! [[Call:ÖVP]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and NEOS]] That's not a coincidence! And here you have brought in laws, for example in the framework of the 2005 tax reform, to which you stood up – you, Mr. Ing. Lugar! – in which it was said that losses occurring in foreign companies reduce Austrian profits. You don't need the license model at all. [[Abg. Lugar: What are you talking about?! You confuse apples with pears! That's crazy!]] There was with your participation politicians like the former FPÖ Finance Minister Grasser, who actually implemented this. And you don't seem to recognize yourself so well. I'll explain you briefly. The tax was reduced to 25 percent, so it was not 50 percent savings in the 100 million € license fees. But at the same time, Austria is a country that has for decades had a so-called international box privilege. That is to say, in this competition, which is in place with us, we have said: All profits of group daughters coming from outside are tax-free in Austria, even the sales of the shares, the so-called Capital Gains, are tax-free. Then this Karl-Heinz Grasser came and said: About the pure fact that you don't have to pay a tax anyway, you can choose your free choice in the Group subsidiaries whose profits and losses you can calculate with the Austrian basis. Just one full... – I cannot say, Mr President, “Idiot” would choose a company as a daughter that would profit. They choose those where the loss then places the Austrian tax base on zero. [[Abg. Lugar: Go! You're suing yourself!]] You have agreed, you have contributed to this, and here you make yourself and explain that you are the great savior before the tax erosion!Unknown term type: "%s".? I am sorry that you have changed the political group too often and, obviously, you have also given the memory of the party colour. I'm sorry, Mr. Engineer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But we're still continuing the fight. I led him here, and I think the seven-point program, on the power. It is precisely the right thing to say before, that we are now focusing on measures, many of which can only be done at European level, some of them in Austria as well. That's where we should go. A part concerns the issue of capital transfer, namely reporting where money flows. And that's where I'm hoping for Dr. Schelling's support. I would point out at the moment that the list he has listed is true. Since the SPÖ is back in the government, we have taken a number of measures: Restriction on group taxation, foundations. We have put in place measures in the field of reporting, including with regard to the freedom of punishment of the financial penalties. We've done a lot. We are tireless on the road, it is not always easy with the government partner. I am pleased when it gives praise to the ÖVP here, because it was we who enforced it within the coalition. Thanks to our government partner for the praise, and in this sense we will continue tirelessly. And by the way: The city of Vienna does not pay taxes and therefore does not need a tax haven. So I haven't heard such nonsense at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11868	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11889	Mr President. Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Appreciated Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig, it's quite incredible already! They currently place large land on the outside, landdown home – and here inside you call Austria a rogue state! [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You did not listen!]] But you know what? – It does not even surprise us, because you, your party and your former chairman, Dr. Van der Bellen, did not have any problems with the unjust sanctions against Austria. I'm sorry, this man is not electable for us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the Panama Papers became known, the Vorarlberger Hypo-Bank has also been brought to the public attention, and the fact of the mention in these reports has already led many to a certain pre-conception, without ever having dealt more closely with the bank. A deeper look is worth it. Hypo Vorarlberg is not only the tenth largest bank in Austria, it has been a partner and companion of the Vorarlberg economy for many decades. The bank has accompanied the positive development of Vorarlberg's economic location and has grown with the location itself. Today, the Hypo Vorarlberg has a balance sheet of €14 billion. In the last ten years, equity has been more than doubled, and the total eligible own resources in the Group are as high as 31. ==References====External links== This is a surplus of €538 million over the legal requirements, ladies and gentlemen. Only about 3.4 percent of the total loans are in need, and everyone who knows something about the banking business knows that this is an excellent value. It is also noteworthy that over the past ten years, the Hypo Vorarlberg has paid around €250 million to Köst and bank charges, while the additional wage costs are not even taken into account. Last year, Standard & Poor’s bank became one of the best banks in Austria. The Hypo Vorarlberg, which belongs to almost 75 percent of us Vorarlbergers, was elected Bank of the Year in 2013 in London. The Bank's excellent development in recent years is due, not least, to its management. The resignation of Chairman of the Board of Management Dr. Grahammer is a loss for the Hypo Vorarlberg and is expressly regretted by the economic and political leadership in the country. [[Abg. Lugar: What is that? A paid turn-on?]] All previous tests clearly show that Dr. Grahammer was moving under the laws at any time and did not blame himself, which would only justify his very personal decision. It is also noteworthy that the bank has been spared by the many turbulences of recent years. Did you hear anything negative about the Hypo Vorarlberg during the financial crisis? On the contrary, the Bank made profits with its conservative business policy at that time too. [[Abg. Lugar: Who pays for this call?]] So much for the status quo. Leave But you also tell me a few sentences on offshore. Here too, one should put the relations in the right light. Hypo Landesbank has a total of 110 000 customers, of which approximately 0.6 percent are offshore customers. These include approximately 120 classic offshore companies, approximately 80 companies and about 300 private persons in Liechtenstein. In 2015, the Bank achieved a profit of € 121 million before taxes. According to information from the bank, from the many quoted letterbox companies, only € 1 to almost € 2 million was earned. So that's 1 percent of the total result before taxes. Ladies and gentlemen! It is perfectly clear and legitimate that the country of Vorarlberg, as majority owners, has a higher legal claim to the activity of our bank. And that's why it's clear to say: Offshore in these nested letterbox companies is essential for Hypo Vorarlberg! The bank itself has passed on countless suspicions of money laundering to the authority. A separate department in the bank checks the customers very closely. The annual audit shall be carried out by external companies in the preparation of the annual report. The FMA has also tested. There were two cases in which the FMA disagreed with the Bank’s assessment and audit. She's turned on the prosecutor's office. Both cases were laid down very quickly, nothing wrong could be found. Nevertheless, the Supervisory Board of the Bank – and I think it was a right decision – has an extraordinary meeting on 12 February. April this year, the Board of Directors is tasked with segmenting the bank's offshore business until summer and preparing clear recommendations on the decommissioning or continuation of the individual sub-sectors. This catalogue of criteria, which will be prepared in the coming months and will then be decided on by the Supervisory Board, is necessary, since the Hypo Vorarlberg as the leading entrepreneurship bank will of course also advise and accompany domestic export companies in their commitment to international markets in the future. Conclusion: The Hypo Vorarlberg is a pearl and has not deserved to be pushed into such a shaky light by unqualified prejudice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A good management, a reliable owner and 650 excellent employees, with whom I would like to expressly thank myself for their work done at this point, have made the bank one of the best in Austria. And this, ladies and gentlemen, can prove to you thousands of satisfied customers and numerous international experts.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e11982	Mr Zanger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12004	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When the subject of money laundering is discussed, a thema also keeps moving again and again, increasingly into the center of the discussions, that is the issue of abolishing the cash. Terrorist financing and money laundering are only proposed to cover the true backgrounds of the abolition of cash, free of charge according to the motto: We restrict your freedoms, and we lie to you. The abolition of the 500 € image and the introduction of a cash limit were discussed. These were the first steps of the EU to complete the abolition of cash, or should they have been. Although the President of the ECB, Mario Draghi, has assured the European Parliament that an end to the €500 figure has nothing to do with limiting cash, the statements of top representatives of the European Union must be taken with great caution. Why? – There are two statements, two quotations by President Jean-Claude Juncker. One is: “If it gets serious, you have to lie.” So said Juncker at an evening event on the Euro crisis in Brussels. [[Call the ÖVP: We know that, eh!]] – “We know that” is typical ÖVP. Now we know how you're doing with the lie! And then another quote: “We decide something, then put it in the room and wait a while for what happens. If then there is no great scream and no uprising, because most do not understand what has been decided, then we continue – step by step until there is no return.” These are quite open words within the European Union, how to deal with the citizen. Under the guise of combating money laundering and terrorist financing, efforts are constantly being made to restrict citizens' rights of freedom. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another quote by Draghi: “The 500 € image is an instrument for illegal activities.” – However, the problem is not the cash, as Draghi claims, but the problem is the enemies of freedom and wealth, and they are sitting in Brussels in the European Central Bank. It is always pretended as if only cash would be possible criminal powers, that this is also possible in a digital world with virtual money – cyber-crime et cetera –, no one thinks, that doesn't say anyone. In a world without cash, everything you buy cashless is traceable. There are no more freedoms, no more privacy, and the citizen is subject to the total control of the European Union and the national states. That's a world I can't imagine and don't want to imagine. It would be the financially demise and glass citizens. There would be no more limits to the public's premeditation. It makes a difference, however, whether a citizen voluntarily leaves a digital fingerprint – for example, today when paying by credit card on the Internet and giving – or whether he has no other choice in the absence of cash. This freedom of choice must also be given in the future. Money is printed for me. In reality, the EU or the ECB is only concerned with eliminating negative interest rates, so that highly indebted countries, especially the southern European countries, can be deducted from the savers. Those who know how to deal with the banks know that it would be so that these negative interest rates will be passed on to their customers or savers. The savers would then be safely handed over to the banks because no one could cancel any more money. Instead of having to pay interest for their debts, highly indebted states receive money from the savers. So, paradoxically, the debt will not be eradicated by the debtor, but by the spar. Thus, there is a redistribution of the assets from the creditors to the debtors. It was – and this is significant – the first of the liberal parliamentarians and Federal presidential candidate Norbert Hofer, who called for the use of cash in Austria to be raised in the constitutional rank. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is a corresponding request, as is a petition, which has already been addressed. On Sunday, the Austrian people will have the opportunity to make a clear commitment to the cash by choosing Norbert Hofer as the Federal President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12054	Mr Hable came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12076	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! It is really very exciting what comes to light through these Panama papers. I would also like to emphasize one thing: It is not all illegal what it is all about, but there are also legal uses, legal reasons why such societies exist. For example, you can do business with Panama, which should also be possible. In the case of cross-border transactions, it is often the case that the contracting parties are looking for a neutral country through which they then deal. There are therefore quite legitimate and appropriate reasons for this, but not only. That this is true also shows that some documents came to the public a few years ago, of course not as many as now, but already at that time nervous customers from Mossack Fonseca called at their firm and asked if their secrets were safe. Mossack Fonseca has, of course, assured that all of this is all right, that its data center is the safest and that state-of-the-art encryption technologies are used, so everything is fine. [[Call to the ÖVP: Who spoke to them?]] [[Abg. Lugar: He has spoken to them.]] Only the fact that nervous customers call and ask if the secrets are safe here also shows that there are not only legitimate possibilities, but these societies are used for a large part for illegal purposes. Now the experts are fighting about the magnitude; some say up to 90 percent. That may be, it is definitely a very high, significant share, which is misused here for illegal purposes. But, I am also saying this, it is not only about tax evasion, but also about tax evasion, which is a lot of discussions, especially here in the House, but also in the public. What is it really about? What is actually offered by these societies? – Anonymity! That's what it's all about! [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] In this shadow of anonymity, not only the tax evasions hide, as people traffickers hide, as arms dealers, drug barons, terrorism is financed through these channels, cleptocrates. For example, why do you find a cousin of the Syrian dictator Assad in the Panama papers, but not just him, but many others, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, and anyone else from dictators and other Heads of State who are obviously stealing, clearing out their countries here and securing these funds? This means, of course, that money is also hidden, money with illegal origin, and that these funds will be washed. These are the main themes! But now it is also a bit easy and cheap to focus your finger only on Panama and say: These are the evil ones! The G20 – the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it – have now said: All the tax havens of this world are being drained. Mr Finanzminister, you have rightly pointed out that there are tax havens also with us. I'm just not sure whether the USA, an important member of the G20, sees it that way, because especially in the USA there are tax havens, but also oases of anonymity, for example Delaware. An American trust guarantees absolute anonymity. You get it in Delaware, you don't need to go to Panama. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes we can!]] We need to look at Europe in the same way, for Great Britain. About half of those societies mentioned in these Panama papers are British Virgin Islands companies, a British overseas region, so Britain and Europe are also in the discussion. Much closer, in front of our doorstep: Liechtenstein. It is also a very concrete result of the Hypo-Research Committee, I emphasize: the Hypo-Alpe-Adria study committee that we have encountered numerous of these veiling structures, where millions and billions of these leasing and real estate deals have flown away from offshore accounts, ultimately money from Austrian taxpayers. Why has this been done? – To use this anonymity to cover up the economic beneficiaries. And a lot has gone over Liechtenstein. And what I miss here is activity. I can understand that the Liechtenstein authorities are not very enthusiastic, but that the Austrian authorities have shown very little joy and commitment here, too, I cannot understand. This is less about your area of responsibility, Mr Finanzminister, but above all about the Minister of Justice. And there are not only new rules, it is not just laws, it must also be lived, it must also be pursued and implemented with commitment. The example of Liechtenstein in connection with Hypo Alpe-Adria shows that exactly this commitment is very often lacking. What does it need? – It takes many steps, but I think a very central step is to combat this anonymity. In other words, we need a central register in which the economic ownership of societies is made available to the public clearly and transparently. We need this throughout Europe, but of course we need it worldwide. I would like to stress this once again, and I repeat that: no comprehensive judgments, no undifferentiated discussion! It belongs to the global economy, it belongs to the international economic activity, which is based on our all prosperity, that we do international business, that we also use international companies, but what we do not need is this anonymity, behind which not the legal economic activity is hidden, but behind which we hide the drug barons behind which all the cleptocrates of this world hide and behind which also those who have cleared the Hypo Alpes-Adria over years. This shadow economy, in which these criminals hide, must end. In any case, this is necessary, and this very big first step must be taken together as a Europe, the whole world must do together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12149	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12172	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciated listeners on the stands and in front of the televisions! [[Abg. Rasinger: What is that? Karl-May-Bilder?]] On your interlocutory question [[referring to the pictureboard that the speaker put ahead of the speaker on the speaker’s desk, on which a riding cowboy with the label “Group Tax” follows three cattle with the inscriptions “Ikea”, “Starbucks” and “Google”]] These are pictures from the “Kronen Zeitung” by Dr. Tassilo Wallentin. But if you already have an interim question, I also have one: Hopefully your red-white-red color also holds in terms of TTIP. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If you already wear the red-and-white red that way, you should also stand for it – I think that is the most important thing – and you can prove it relatively soon, in the next few months. But to the current discussion: I would like to divide my speech into two areas, an international and a national area. It has already been mentioned by Minister of Finance Schelling that this money laundering directive is constantly being improved and seems to work very well. Nevertheless, we now have examples that actually much more is spoken than done. I think this offshore business, which is always attributed only to the wealthy people, goes beyond that, as it is also used by the companies to park money here, which can be very well paid out for certain lobbyist activities and for other useful services. Here you have to introduce very clear bars. I also have some proposals in the national field, since I think we should come from the words to the actions. It seems that this restriction is not wanted. It seems to be always so that targets are defined that you represent plans and say that there is something happening now to calm the population. That is also necessary. If you're at events, when you're at tribal tables, you know people are worried. Why? You see, of course, that they are taxed and that on the other hand, a lot of money is in circulation. I can then quote a statement from you later, Mr. Minister. But now two examples, because I think you can compare these offshore business, this tax speculation with the current processes and processes on other topics. For example, when it comes to to towing: There is also evidence in the asylum issue that one does not really want to stop it, since there are apparently forces that deserve well with this matter. Or, since the Minister for the Environment is also sitting here, quite fittingly, I would otherwise not have made him: Environmental conference in Paris, wonderful, a great environmental conference, 190 adult heads of state have fallen around their necks, with tears in their eyes – you really have to meet the people at heart. It is only then that we have, of course, excluded air traffic and shipping during the negotiations. – Well, wonderful, what is this environmental summit? I think it is similar with these offshore operations, so it is similar with this tax evasion. Because it is a matter of concern – I have deliberately taken this “press” with me from Saturday – and I am convinced that the Spanish minister of industry has not had any concern at all, in no way, he has nothing to do with offshore business, because he probably did not know what that is. [[Keeping a newspaper high]] In contrast to Mr Sieber, who, after his present presentation, seems to have some function at Vorarlberger Hypo. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But see, a few days later, Spanish industrial minister Soria resigned. That's going through like a red thread, if you know how much money it is. In the EU we lack a trillion tax money, a trillion tax money is missing because of tax evasion. And that's actually very exciting – since someone said today: Are you coming back to palm oil today? – I am getting more and more clear about the developing countries: If one reads in this press report that the developing countries are actually the most affected by these speculation transactions of the corporations and that, for example, only the state of Bangladesh of these 1.8 billion dollars of tax revenue is missing 310 million by the fact that the corporations place increased bills and help themselves in the balance sheet, then one has to put some euro of development aid into the right light and think about what is being spoken of here, also in this House, and how it is acted. I think that is very important, ladies and gentlemen. I said that the second part should be the national part. This is very important, because we have the citizens to represent in this House, and I would like to do so in the direction that I would remind you that a database of transparency, which exists in other areas, has been removed relatively quickly. I think if Austria wants to play an exemplary role – you were at the international meeting, Mr. Minister – then we should also come forward with an example role. You said we don't have revenue, we have an expenditure problem. I believe that this is the whole meeting, and I really ask the government to implement these reforms, which are announced periodically at every re-election, at last. That's the main problem. I know that one more year ago they received a call for order, so I point out, not I say it, but KTM chairman Stefan Pierer spoke of a banana republic, with our bureaucratic requirements, with all the obstacles to the large industry, to SMEs, to small and medium-sized enterprises, as they can no longer vote on bureaucracy. And the very essential thing that he has said is that we are not talking about the additional wage costs, but about the main wage costs that endanger our economic location. Who knows better than the Minister of Finance: If companies are running when employment is running, when the daily money comes in, then the Minister of Finance can shape, then the Minister of Finance can make policy for the people, make social policy, make economic policy, make health policy, where we are weakening everywhere, because we do not implement reforms, as announced reforms are not implemented, at the expense and expense of the citizens in our country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If this requires examples, perhaps a reference to entrepreneurship and shareholders and investors. Of these revenues, of these profits, much more must remain at the site. I think it is a legitimate and very essential requirement that the income and profits of milk that is being milked here are not transferred abroad. On the domestic situation – I have already mentioned this –: We have 900 000 pensioners with less than 900 € income. Please, you must explain to them how to achieve them in daily life, how to manage to get through the rounds financially, if they may also have a larger family or receive a pet. An up-to-date example of yesterday: Our “Wut hostess”, the “Wut-Oma” Frieda Nagl has put this to the fore with the nurse who has cared for 30 years of children who have raised two children as a single parent, has done a great job for this republic – and then she gets 890 € pension. I could also add the average pension of farmers here. Ask one, how funny it is to be active in agriculture for 40 years and to have 365 days a year, but not only with the family – most of them also have a larger family – not only in the costing and schooling, but also in the stable! I would ask you to understand this and to relive it, then you know what “great” pension is estimated at €670, ladies and gentlemen, this discussion is a great opportunity, and I particularly ask the government parties not to wage a defense fight here. Finally, I would like to address Mr Matznetter briefly. Dear colleague Matznetter, you should make your research a little more precise, like the clubman Lugar, who was at the time you accused him of voting, not in this house. [[Abg. Matznetter: At BZÖ!]] He wasn't either! However, my dear colleague Matznetter, you were the Secretary of State for Finance. And if Frank Stronach has not taxed anything in this country on the basis of Austrian tax legislation, I ask for examples and no anonymous accusations.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12265	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12287	We should use this topic, this discussion for a re-start, for a transparent, honest tax discussion for the benefit of the location Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12314	Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12335	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In connection with the scandal of letterbox companies in Panama, I focus briefly on the role of the media. The extent of fraudulent activities shows us how important media are in a democracy. Why do I mention that? They were dedicated journalists who have researched together in an international cooperation. They have started international business and have brought scandals, corruption and crime to light. They have researched millions of documents and files and presented over 100 new media in 76 countries at the beginning of April. The powers now known will in any case employ authorities and courts. What is the role of politics? I'm talking about an alliance between media and politics. The media have revealed and put the matter in motion. Policy will continue with political instruments, with parliamentary debates, with an investigative committee, and policy must change laws and rules. The political groups represented in the EU Parliament, which we have already heard, have now agreed on the establishment of an investigation committee on the Panama Papers. I am very surprised at the fact that the nationalist group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has so far spoken against such a committee of inquiry. The population rightly expects these global ventures, corrupt business and criminal acts to be discovered and stopped, both nationally and internationally. As an EU, we are a single economic area, and it makes sense to harmonise rules such as corporate taxation. It is necessary to exchange information between the European Supervisory Authorities. force. Companies operating in several countries should disclose profits and taxes. And it is certainly desirable to abolish the anonymity of letterbox companies. It also seems useful to have a real influence on tax havens so that they can conclude tax agreements. Under the direction of the OECD, numerous measures to combat fraud have already been implemented or are being implemented, and Austria is a very strong partner. Tax loopholes within the European Union and within Europe cannot be tolerated. As a Socialist MEP, I am particularly important: Millions of workers, from workers, drop their taxes on time and pay in the tax pot. And I'm sure it's not about super-rich being able to figure it out, hide their profits, their assets somewhere and then not pay taxes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For increased tax justice, for increased distribution justice, profits are to be taxed exactly where they are generated. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is also legitimate and appropriate to demand a fair contribution from real-life people in order to be able to counteract social dysbalance. This is about social justice. In this context, I allow myself to appeal to our viewers: I'm looking for you to make use of your right to vote next Sunday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I should like to express my thanks and my appreciation for those journalists who have been involved in international detection. However, I would also like to thank all those media representatives who accompany us here in the House at the Hypo-Research Committee and report on the events – since now 65 meetings, with a session lasting between 10 and 14 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12396	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12417	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. Lebensminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Such special meetings are always held before elections. Today, the Federal Presidential elections on Sunday were very reticent. It is interesting, however, that the opposition, for example, starting with Mrs Glawischnig, but then, of course, with my esteemed colleague, Mr Haider here calls for measures that are already taking place at European level on the one hand – the Minister of Finance has clearly explained what the 4. Money laundering directive. But there are, of course, various ways in Austria, how to encounter tax fraud and how to address overall such effects that tax is withdrawn et cetera. I remember a few laws and a few measures that we have taken, where some or all opposition parties have not at all found the effort worth agreeing. The first example would be the FATCA agreement. For all spectators, this is an agreement with America, the United States, with which, instead of an automatic data exchange, the creditors are entitled and obliged to report American citizens. Strangely, none of the opposition parties went along with this agreement at the time. Today, you are here calling for action. I find that very exciting. Second story: Who is going to be involved in the measures to combat tax fraud in 2015 and even before, for example, 2014 in the abolition of the ban on exploitation – that is, if a bank institution has, for example, expressed a suspicion of a money laundering announcement, it may well be used by the financial sector – who does not go along with it? – The FPÖ is not involved because the FPÖ believes that sometimes it is only for the sake of refusing to do so that it is a necessary two-thirds majority or other consent. Or the introduction of the account register in 2005, i.e. the insight into the account register and the bank account insight that we decided in the course of the tax reform, the capital inflow and the capital outflow law, where we have looked specifically at the fact that in the future, tax fraud and those who want to move their money anywhere, we are going to get to the syllables. Who's against it? – The FPÖ is opposed, but it turns out and calls for action. There we have to say that Mr Rossmann and Mr Kogler have indeed negotiated, but you wanted to see tightenings, for example at the bank account, you wanted a court ruling and, and, and so. Today you stand out and say: There's a lot to be done. That's what I'm asking myself: When is it white, when is it black and when is it shaded? [[Abg. Kogler: Of course you have to consider data protection!]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Data protection is always a topic, Mrs. Colleague!]] If you want to tackle tax fraud, you can't all the time complain that these laws are too sharp. I wonder why we measure by two measures. That is to say, Austria has had many different possibilities in recent years. And now I want to deal with the subject of Vienna. Mr Rossmann, where you bear the responsibility, namely in Vienna, there are no attempts to prevent, for example, from being... – No, but it has also fallen into the Panama Papers, for example, the name Alijev and the name of a certain society called Maximus. [[Abg. Rossmann: Is Vienna already a tax haven?]] This is about financing the Media Quarter in Vienna with a PPP model. A very credible suspicion has arisen that money laundering is also a matter for Mr Alijev, who is no longer among us. As far as the prevention is concerned, for example, of transparency which the Greens would like to call for here in the House: In Vienna, where they themselves are in a government with the SPÖ, they did not agree to two requests made by my colleague Wolfgang Ulm in 2014. Content was that in the future, for example, there should no longer be any public-private partnership models, so the city of Vienna should no longer enter into which private partners act only as trustees. [[Abg. Rossmann: Has there been any?]] And now I'm asking you: You want a Trust Register, you want all economic owners to be disclosed. – But you do not agree! So please wake your friends up to the Vienna Greens and tell them to act on the Vienna plain just as you do here at the federal level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, Mr Lugar and Mr Steinbichler: It is obvious that Mr Stronach does not wish to have his usual stay in Austria, that is, not to be more than half a year in Austria each year. That is why he has apparently relinquished his mandate so that he does not have to pay up to 50 percent income tax in Austria. [[Call the SPÖ:55!]] – 55 in his case, thank you for assisting! Ask yourself if Frank Stronach is not such a tax refugee in Austria! On the other hand, I would like to write Mrs Glawischnig to the main book – and I am doing this a little different from my colleagues before – because I believe that this is simply not reasonable for the Austrians, the men and women who have built this country. [[Abg. Kogler: Aha!]] They sometimes question the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, question whether it is necessary today. But we need a Federal President! We need a Federal President who confesses to this country! But we don't need a party that calls Austria a villain state and supports a Federal Presidency candidate with almost €2 million! [[Abg. Kogler: That's wrong!]] In this sense, the Austrians are supposed to take a picture of themselves for Sunday.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12547	Before I give the floor to Mr Schellhorn, I declare the following: I have been alerted to the fact that Mr Klubobmann Lugar is supposed to have called up MP Matznetter: What drugs do you take? I cannot take this comment from the Members of Parliament's stenographs, so I cannot go further on this objection either. [[Call the SPÖ: Again!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Only nicotine!]] Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12586	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Estimated Minister! At the appearance of the colleague Tamandl you have the impression – somehow analogous to “Bauer is looking for a woman” –: Party is looking for its voters, otherwise they can no longer be found, except for the red and white tie. [[Call the ÖVP: It's a bad joke!]] But leave it. You are now taking a differentiated look at the whole thing, because I think that the indifference of my previous speakers has taken place. In some cases, what is being offered here is standard. In this respect, I would also like to mention: Yes, I have a friend who has an account in Panama that imports Central American rum to Europe, to Austria. Is this a criminal now? Is this one who is immediately being cemented in this media logic as a person who makes something illegal? - No, he's not. If my previous speakers have also shifted responsibility to the EU – what the EU needs to do, can or should do – then one can also be mentioned: The mandatory information on sales tax requests – how does the entrepreneur exist and fulfil his tax obligations in the requested State? – is only granted sluggishly, and this is transmitted very sluggishly, not even the three-month period. So what do we mean, in this respect, by the transparency that we so urgently call for? To exclude misunderstandings: Yes, we speak out clearly and clearly against criminal acts. Yes, we speak clearly and clearly for the fact that taxes must not be withdrawn, even on offshore companies. And yes – and we also have to acknowledge that – to appear on any list will not be enough to be criminal. As much rule of law must be, I believe. And if we are already in the rule of law: Not everyone who has an account abroad is per se a criminal! Not like I read it in the “Falter” article, where the prosecutor speaks of anyone who has an account abroad as a criminal. It cannot be in a rule of law that one is so condemned. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let us think of the many owners of an account abroad, for example also the Vorarlberger. Also in the relationship of Mr. Walser there will certainly be anyone who has an account from history in Liechtenstein or Zurich, Switzerland. [[Abg. Schimanek: Not!]] Is that why he's a criminal? Is that why he's a tax evasion? [[Abg. Walser: What does this have to do with history?]] You know, it's inappropriate to leave a rich bash out of the stack here. It is also inappropriate to leave here an entrepreneurship bashing – that all tax evasioners are – off the stack. Every entrepreneur in this discussion is per se an evil person, even anyone who has an account abroad is per se an evilr. What did he do? What's come out so far? – That’s this undifferentiated discussion. What do we do with all these terabytes? What happened to all these terabytes? You've been negotiating for a year, there won't be 20 cases, so much won't. And what are we doing? – Mr Groiß said in his “opposition speech” – the ÖVP is not in the government –: We need to get down with the taxes. - Yeah, he's right. This is social justice! De-olidarisation can only be countered if we reduce the tax burden in our own country and deal with these revenues in a reasonable way. I can quote what economic psychologist Kirchler meant in the “trend”: “If an institution exercises power based on trust, an institution would be very efficient. Exercising power without trust leads to the opposite.” And that's what we have. There is no longer any confidence in this government, no one has any more confidence in this policy. That's what I'm asking myself: Where's the hysteria with all of you? Where does the hysteria remain in tax waste in that state, in that country? Where does hysteria stay in the case of subsidisation? Where is the hysteria when the airport or the Nord Hospital in Vienna costs the double? Where's this hysteria? I don't hear anything. Where does hysteria remain if there is still no transparency database? Where is she, Mr. Lopatka? Where's your hysteria? [[Abg. Lopatka: Hysteria? Yes, it's a pity...!]] Where's the hysteria with you when we suffocate in this red tape killing and bleeding in the load? Where does your hysteria stay with the 500 000 unemployed? What's going on now? Where are you? The only concept that comes to your mind is to press the entrepreneurs again: a bonus malus system, perhaps a reduction in working time. – All these are not concepts! Where's this hysteria? Where is the hysteria at the hypo that costs billions? And where does your honesty remain? Exercising power without trust leads to the opposite, and the people in this country have no confidence in you either. The problems of expenditure, which the Minister of Finance has also mentioned, we all know. We don't have any revenue problems. And I miss that in this discussion. Before we fall to Panama, we should first carry out our recipes, our concepts and our tasks in our own country without a party policy hack. The Austrian Embassy, which includes Central America, is located in Mexico. She hasn't received a single request until yesterday, according to ORF. She hasn't even received a request until yesterday: Is there something about us? Do we have anything there? Is there something there? Can we go somewhere? Now I am coming to talk about this mood. If we are talking about the fact that there are so many evil entrepreneurs and so many bad tax evaders – because obviously all those who have an account abroad are per se tax evaders, as we may be told by a prosecutor – then we come to the problem that exists in Austria: We have a depressive mood. We don't have optimism. And this optimism can only go if I am a model myself if I give myself confidence. Only, this confidence in this waste that this state exercises is an outrage. Where is the hysteria when the financial compensatory negotiations conclude that five out of nine federal states cannot expect? Where's a call? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Does all this justify tax evasion?]] There is no call, but we have the bad entrepreneurs who have an account abroad. Reforms and legal certainty are unfortunately foreign words in Austria, that is fact. Dear SPÖ, dear ÖVP, dear Greens and FPÖ, you do not solve the problems, you create and fire them! They are also fired with populism. With higher bureaucracy and higher taxes, there is no state to make and no company to run! [[Abg. Arbitrator: Talk time!]] On rich companies, even on lawyers and tax advisors – what are you doing for me today, dear Georg? – to cut and criminalize them, that is not our culture. Our culture for Austria, the culture of NEOS means: Transparency, tax protection and, above all, tax reduction. This is the most social concept for a functioning Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12694	Mr Krainer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12715	Mr President. [[The speaker presents a panel with a bar chart on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Ui, a Taferl!]] Mr Schellhorn, hysteria is always a bad counselor in politics. I am glad that there is little hysteria, neither in one of the cases mentioned by you nor in the present case. It is about simply looking at the problems that exist very soberly and then addressing them. The problem we are all talking about today – at least at least – is the question: How much money is lost to us through tax relief or tax evasion? What we see at European level is – these are the figures for the European Union as a whole – that around EUR 1,000 billion will be withdrawn from taxes in the European Union. Now it's a number that hardly anyone can start with. However, when we look at the deficits of all the countries of the European Union each year, this figure is not half as high as that: The deficits of all states in the European Union totalled about EUR 400 billion. What is lost to us through tax relief or tax evasion is more than double, about 1 000 billion euros. – Only so that you can imagine how big this problem is. If we were to avoid even half, on average, we would no longer have budget deficits within the European Union, but, on average, surpluses through all countries – only with what dimension we are talking about. So more to do about it would be, I think, really a huge step. Now it is true that, of course, more can be done at national level and more needs to be done, and so does Austria. On the counter-financing side alone, there are a number of measures against tax fraud, which affect the masses, the small ones, one has to say where the registers, the investor sharing obligation and the like are concerned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Most of the Austrians are unable to tax at all – for example, all who are self-employed – because their wage or income tax is automatically charged. Yes, we have put in place measures so that taxes can not be removed as easily as possible in the broad range of places where it may be possible here and there. However, I believe that these measures would have far higher credibility if we were to take more effective action against the big tax evasions. These are, of course, large corporations that are deceiving international taxes, and of course these are also very wealthy individuals who, with letterbox companies, trusts and so on, hide their money from the Fiscus – and thus from all of us – and do not make their fair contribution. These are those who have fallen not only on the butter side, but even on the chocolate side of life, but are not ready now, I say once, to share a part of this chocolate side as with society, as all others do, also those who are not on the chocolate and not on the butter side, who are very generously paying their taxes and taxes, although they have much harder in life than these few who have even the opportunity to look over letterbox companies that they pay less taxes. That is why, I believe, it is very important that we do just as effectively at international level. For example, we have now submitted to our coalition partner a motion for a resolution on what we can do nationally. Of course, one can only solve these problems at international level, but we know that there is too little going on and that this is not effective enough. There are more than enough steps that can be taken nationally – whether the black lists can be introduced nationally, whether this is a transparency register, where simply every Austrian, every Austrian who serves letterbox companies, clearly and openly, and also needs to be transparent, or whether the higher penalties and longer limitation periods are. There are a number of proposals, and I would really ask the EIA to think again about how we can jointly take national steps against tax relief if we do not just want to wait for something to go on at international level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you have to say about this is that today 400 people – refugees – are drowned in the Mediterranean: It is clear to us that this issue – people fleeing from war, fleeing from hunger, fleeing persecution – is also only internationally soluble. Nevertheless, it is also necessary to introduce national measures on this issue if there are no solutions at international level. That's the same with tax refugees. I really have a problem with some of the parties in war refugees always thinking about building walls and thinking only about making the wall for tax refugees. I believe that we must, in particular, ensure that tax refugees do just as much as everyone else and do not press with letterbox companies or in other ways to make their contribution. Then I have two more puzzle solutions, because this was already the subject today: How many colleagues from the ÖVP have there been those who have not reunited Andreas-Khol-Mehrnis-Geschirtuch? – There are three. And they must not be confused with colleagues Heinzl. [[Male MEPs of the ÖVP wear red-and-white striped ties, female representatives of the ÖVP and Abg. Heinzl wear red-white-red striped neckcloths.]] He comes from St. Pölten and today simply looks forward to the great election result yesterday. We are happy with you and congratulate you on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12798	Mrs Winter's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12820	Mr President. Valuable listeners at the gallery and at home! Mr Schellhorn, the Panama Papers are certainly not the bashing of the companies, but very probably the registration fee requirement – I hear that every day when I go shopping somewhere. I would like to say a few words about the Rules of Procedure of the President, because as a Member of Parliament I simply do not agree with them: The word “Schurkenstaat” is a terminus technician, a technical term. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Like “wild Members”!]] He has been undisputed in the Duden since 2004 and has been undisputed in the German encyclopedia since 2008. The Americans themselves have shaped this expression for states that in any way promote terrorists – only briefly. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But there are also calls for...! I don't want to quote any now!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Panama Papers – I have already heard this today from the SPÖ and can only fully agree with it –: Why do we actually get so upset about it? What is so insanely new about Panama Papers? We know there are offshore companies, offshore banks, offshore accounts and letterbox companies en masse, for years now. Did we believe that they are there for fun and are not used at all? Or what is actually the realization of this entire scandal and of this great brimborium around it? We know that global finance, and finally the ECB and the World Bank, also has letterbox companies to deal with certain transactions. We also know that around €40 000 you can buy an offshore bank quite regularly. So there's something wrong with that! What's the big vortex on the whole? – I think the tension is simply the names, because it is no longer an anonymous mass, but one can assign it to individuals, and one can assign who does not want to absolutely agree with fiscal justice. The problem – or let us say: the collateral damage – is that there are also certain stars, world stars that have a great popularity in the population. But with all these lists of names, one can certainly make one, namely political Rabatz, and that is what I believe is happening today. One thing I found very well: If something is particularly glaring, shrill and loud, then you should first think back two steps and ask yourself: What's the story behind this story? – Yes, these are the names, not a question at all, but it is not important who is on the list, but much more important who is not on it and why it is not on it, because that is the real question. We know that the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” was the first to publish this list of names. Yeah, good, okay. The question is: How does she have this information? It has already been pointed out today that it is a journalistic association in the United States that strives for investigative journalism. They're free journalists. But if you look a little behind it now, you can see that George Soros is one of the financiers of this organization, and that has been for years, with huge amounts. So you always have to ask yourself where the information comes from. – That would be the next thing. Those whose names are on the list are, of course, placed on the Pranger. One whose name was displayed large and wide on the front page of the “South German newspaper” is Putin: Putin with his connections, Putin with his friends and similar more. This spring, the commercial contract or privatisation of the Russian bank expires, and the creditor families of this bank, who are naturally in America, are vehemently opposed. Is that perhaps a reason for the sudden and unlikely rapid appearance of these papers? - You don't know. You always have to ask yourself in such situations: Cui bono? And in the worst case even: Who's paying for this? Panama as such, as we know, is actually under US protectorate and could therefore have been dissolved a long time ago and cleared out, so to speak, but it has not been. My speaking time is coming to an end; I would just like to say one more thing: I believe that this request has been made very simply too late to show that one really cares about the financial world as such or is concerned. I think that the opinion of our Minister of Finance was also very good and that the problems are simply not solvable in Austria. Since everyone was allowed to say his word on Sunday, I also say this, and I would like to remind the CSU politician Seehofer – the last sentence –: “Those who decide are not elected, and those who are elected have nothing to decide.” [[President Head gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12895	Mrs Winter, with your self-repent comment on the decision on calls for order, which alone is reserved for the President or the President in question, at the beginning of your remarks, when you said that the type of state is usually used by the term ‘Schurken State’, you actually gave the reasons for this call for order again. I would also have given it to Mr Kogler. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Steinbichler thus came to the point of correcting the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12931	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers! Mrs. Tamandl made a fallover on Frank Stronach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] – Mrs Colleague, I have to say the right thing: Frank Stronach has thousands... [[Abg. Tamandl: No, I didn't say anything about it!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] - You can still yell at it like that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e12974	Mr Steinbichler, how long have you been in Parliament? [[Abg. Steinbichler speaks in the microphone, although it's turned off.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr President, how long have you been in Parliament? I have believed that I do not need to repeat the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the actual correction. Should I still do it? So: I would ask you first to repeat the facts to be corrected as correct and then to make the correction – without debate with the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13004	I would then have to repeat a great deal of what Mrs Colleague said, because she has devoted a large part of her speaking time to presenting Frank Stronach in a wrong light. Frank Stronach has invested €202 million in the football academy for 70 football players nine years. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] And there came out famous players like Alaba and others! Mrs. Colleague, with...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13034	Thank you, honourable Member. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: (in disabled microphone speaking) With this client policy we are dispossessing international investors!]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, thank you! Again: Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Steinbichler! There is a clean wording in the Rules of Procedure on how to make an actual correction: First, the matter to be corrected should be repeated so that everyone knows what it is all about, and then the correction must be made. Since you have not done this for the second time and your statements do not correspond to an actual report, I have turned off the microphone, but I see you can live well with it. [[Rejoicing with the Stronach team.]] Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13105	Thank you very much! Pilz will be happy to go to Hofburg to congratulate Alexander Van der Bellen. Thank you for calling me. [[Call to the ÖVP:To the “Schurken State”!]] I welcome the fact that if the ÖVP does not do so, our honourable colleague Andreas Khol would like to express my warm condolences to his party in all his personal appreciation. [[General acknowledgment]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Now on the subject itself: Mr Schellhorn, I am afraid you have misquoted the ‘Falter’. The right quote in the “Falter” is a literal quote from Michael Radasztics, the head of the economic group of the Vienna Procuratorate. It is literally: “a decent person has no account in Lightenstein”. This is said by the head of the economic group of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. I think that this is a very well-founded statement. In this context, I read to you something from 17. December 2013 from a homepage from Liechtenstein before. Quote: “It fills us with pride and joy that our longtime law firm member, Univ.Prof. Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter, was praised to the Austrian Minister of Justice on 16.12.2013. Unfortunately, this task does not allow him to continue to be active for Batliner Gasser lawyers in Liechtenstein and our clients, just as he has done this successfully in recent years. Our partners, lawyers and employees at Batliner Gasser wish him all the best in his new challenge and task.” Three days earlier, “profile” without “profile” having been sued, found the following – I quote only –: "Brandstetter primarily advises individuals on all matters of economic criminal law. He advises clients in Liechtenstein and Austria.” And then: ‘The designated Minister of Justice is under contract as a consul with ‘tax fraud’ with the spiritual father of the Liechtenstein Foundation.’ Now I'm just out of my mind. I am not quite sure whether this is the appropriate Minister of Justice to help combat tax evasion, tax evasion and tax evasion. I also do not know whether the Minister of Finance has brought his entire knowledge of XXXLutz into the fight against tax evasion, tax evasion and tax havens. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I think it would be useful, Minister of Finance, if you would explain to us here the Lutz model, how to reduce a real Köst tax rate from 25 percent to 5 percent over Malta, with the licence trick that Frank Stronach has also applied with his company for many years to the damage of the Republic of Austria. That's what it's all about! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I do not want to express easily my distrust now, but you will understand, Minister of Finance Schelling, that people with your professional experience, with your experience similar to that of the Minister of Justice, cannot be trusted to a hundred percent that they have changed in such a way that they use a hundred percent of the work and not only with expertise to fight the massive tax relief from the Republic of Austria and the European Union. [[Abg. Rädler: What professional experience do you have in the private sector?]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] This amounts to more than EUR 5 000 billion, more than EUR 1 000 billion per year in the European Union. [[Abg. Fetter:... Greenpeace!]] If we convert the Austrian tax share, this is probably €25 billion per year in Austria. Do you know what that would mean in a federal budget, in education, in care, in support of those who feel rightly abandoned?- Oh, my God! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And now the EIA finance speaker, who wants to become President of the Financial Committee in the near future, Mr Groiß, comes to the speaker's desk and says, yes, we must understand that the rulings are going to the tax havens if they are too high taxes in Austria and the tax pressure is too high. [[Abg. Wheelers: You haven't made a euro yet!]] Tell us more from your firm, Mr Groiß. Call the clients! Call the oases that you personally recommend! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Tell me how business is going! We obviously have some among us. And as a representative of the Republic of Austria, we have not only the right to know who the tax refugees are, but also who are the refugees and who are the tractors in the tax flight. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] We have a right to learn that, because these are the taxpayers, for which many others – the vast majority of the population – work in this republic and pay honest taxes; they do not have these design possibilities from Liechtenstein to the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Wheeler: You don't!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13254	Mr President, your club's speaking time has ended. Please, let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13274	My final sentence is: Because only a part of it is illegal, but most of what we want to fight is perfectly legal, we must change the laws. In particular, I call on FPÖ and ÖVP to reconsider their attitude and to support us in the fight against organised tax relief. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13320	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the self-employed amendment 1620/A(E) tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on Panama-Leaks: Failures in Austria and the lack of activity of the Federal Government in the fight against money laundering and tax fraud at European and international level. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[16:26:03]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13356	We shall now proceed to a brief debate. This concerns the request made by Mr Dr. Strolz, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 348/A by Dr. Scherak, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (the establishment of the technical competence of the minister's attorneys) a period of time until 18. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government and by-word state secretaries should not last more than 10 minutes. Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13394	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens, from wherever you listen or watch us! This afternoon we discussed the Panama Papers and how we can push back black money, tax fraud, tax havens and tax relief. This is a question of transparency over long distances. And also this concern which we are now putting on the agenda at the end of this debate, this afternoon, has transparency in the heart. We NEOS claim to be the most transparent political movement and parliamentary party. From the beginning, it was important to us – as Mrs Griss, the only candidate in the Federal presidential election campaign, has done so far – to disclose all revenue and expenditure in detail. [[Abg. Rädler:... Hazelsteiner!]] – This is a question of political culture. There you can learn a lot, even in your community, Mr Mayor, and then hold a little breath in the calls. This is a question of political culture, a matter of upright action before the citizens. That's what it's all about saying: Okay, do I have something to hide or not? When I hear calls from the ÖVP, I remember that the ÖVP was discharged with €7 million a few years ago; and we still do not know where the €7 million came from. I fear from very dark channels. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course you also have many princes of darkness in your ranks. There are those who are in the functions of the national leaders and who have been preventing the transparency database for five years. That is why we will not stop calling for transparency. There is now an application at the table which has been postponed in the Constitutional Committee. Appreciated fellow citizens to delay something, that is a funeral of the first class. In Parliament, the fact is that the government parties are usually not even prepared to say yes or no to the request, so that this request does not come to the attention of the public, so that this issue is not discussed publicly. They want to ignore such concerns, specifically the concern of transparency, here again: Blow out holes, transparent inside, blow hole! This is your policy, and we will resist it. What's our concern? – We have the concern to say: Members of the Federal Government are to be invited to a hearing by the National Council for the determination of professional competence. That is, when someone becomes a minister, a minister – and on the current occasion we bring the subject back to the National Council – when someone is proposed as a minister, a minister, this personality should be a public debate. This makes sense, of course, then you can see which qualifications this person brings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] – If a majority of the friendly economy and packaging is in the shield, you can, I think, at least publicly question it. I think that's important. We will, however, accept every majority. We are sincere democrats, but we, as representatives of the people, are also entitled to question qualifications. Such rochades are commonplace in the Austrian Federal Government, and then again and again the question arises: What are the criteria? Were the qualifications sometime the criterion? Any intern, any intern we hire somewhere in Austria today, will be asked questions: Where are you from? What are you doing? What did you learn? What do you have about experiences? But there is an area where we do not ask these questions: in many public offices. And I think that's wrong; that's not what the population understands. That's not what the population understands. There is a very successful initiative by Hannes Jagerhofer. She is looking for the best interns for companies; she has a motto, a slogan that I write to the SPÖ and the ÖVP in the main book. The slogan is: You don't have to know anyone, you have to be able to do something! If this were the guideline of personnel policy, the Republic would be very helpful – then the Republic would be very helpful. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] No transparency, no competence and, if it goes wrong, no consequence – that's the wrong direction of march, and that's why we claim it again. Let us take a good example of the European Commission! The European Commission, as a collegial body, is all in common, a vote of the European Parliament. Of course, the individual candidates are also invited to a hearing. We have seen again and again in the past that some candidate had to be sorted out again because there were simply questions of content because the qualifications did not match. I believe that it is an essential quality feature of a collegial body that it presents itself to the public. I can of course also quote a very prominent supporter of our demand – Andreas Khol is sitting at the top of the gallery – here I keep a record of the words he wrote in the “Report” on 13. April 2016 has spoken: However, in line with my general announcements, as President-in-Office, I will not commend anyone who did not go through a hearing in Parliament before. So that's what I'm adding. He has my confidence in himself, but a hearing would be indispensable to me. - Quote. Andreas Khol as a light-fire of transparency for the ÖVP – take an example, rule! [[Congratulations on NEOS and on Mr Gerstl and Mr Singer.]] Nice tie! I think socks would have fit for this too, so black-and-white. [[towards ÖVP]] The ÖVP is very committed today! So, if you're already claping here, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we can start right now: It's not just about the ministers. We can also make public hearings for the President of the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors. We are expected to have a hearing in the main committee at the beginning of June. Why don't we make this public? This is an organ of the National Council. The National Council is the representation of the people. Let's make it public! We have nothing to hide! We're a transparent house. Who's for it? - He may clap. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Well, and here's silence in the forest near the ÖVP. Gave up, transparency in, hole up! – This is the policy you pursue. Let us stream the hearing for candidates, candidates for the Director-General, to the Director-General of the ORF. Why not? We all pay the Director-General, that's our employee. Let's stream this and don't pack in the back room! Who is ready to do this – let's make it public! - who may clap. Public hearing for Director General of the ORF, these are our employees! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Dietrich.]] Gave up, transparency in, hole up! – This and not transparency is your personnel policy. And you do this a thousand times a year, for example at school directors. The question is not: What can you do? What have you done so far?, the question is: What do you have for a party book? Unfortunately, this is still the central question in the order for directors. Read the “Kurier” article from last week! It's still like that! It is a misery that we entrust the well-being and woe of the school directors, executives, to whom we send as a signal: The most important qualifications you have are party membership! – There are so many hearted pedagogists that you are bowing down to; and then there are too many partygoers who then also bend the children. That's wrong! So renewal can never grow. If we say that the party book industry is more important than initiative, commitment and qualification, then the school will not get better. That is why we make the request for a deadline until 18. May. SPÖ and ÖVP must finally confess themselves to this. [[Abg. Wheelers: Why always only SPÖ and ÖVP? For example, what about Loacker?]] And if it's a no, then it's a no. Then, once again, we know what your personnel policy is, what you think of transparency – hole up, transparency inside, hole to –; But you should explain at least once. I really think it is totally unthinkable what you always do with the requests that you say: Our favorite knife is to delay, to holes. We're not even brave enough to say yes or no. We are not courageous enough to hold the discussion in public, but act according to the kind of princes of darkness: Gave up, transparency in, hole in. That's how you govern the Republic, and that's why you're on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13490	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13512	Mr President. High house! Firstly, as chairman of the Constitutional Committee on the proposal of a hearing by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, I would like to make a very critical speech on some of the statements made by the current Federal Presidency candidates. If a candidate says that he is not willing, even if an absolute majority chooses a party to pledge to members of this party as a government, that is already very close to my abuse of this Constitution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] The election is probably at the heart of our constitution, and it cannot put a Federal President out of power. I think this is a very dangerous announcement, because that would mean not accepting elections. I think this is a sense of democracy policy, and it surprises me that this is just from the greens. On the other hand, if you hear from colleagues Hofer that he wants to convene the current government, I think this is also omnipotential fantasy, because no man in this Republic wants to bring about instability in order to heat up against each other, to play against each other. The President of the Federal Republic is supposed to have a negotiating role, a function which essentially represents the cohesion of this Republic and not the division of that Republic. [[Abg. Wenninger: Dog torfer – who else!]] I therefore also think that this announcement during the presidential election campaign is very dangerous and is also close to the breach of the constitution. Now to Mr Strolz's proposal: This is a very good proposal to the first listening, but let us think it over. First of all, he would contradict our constitutional system. Now the Federal President has the right to offer a Prime Minister or not. If I put a hearing in front of this, I will de facto dismiss the Federal President, who should have the final decision. If I put a hearing before that, which brings a certain result, has to be voted on – I suppose, because there has to be some form of ending such a hearing – then everyone here in the house will be aware that the majority, which the government is composed of, will always vote for their candidates. It will then be very difficult for the President of the Federal Republic to take a different position. That is to say, de facto, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany takes out an influence and leaves it to the majority who are already proposing the candidates. The Federal President can no longer reject individual ministers, because the majority here in Parliament have decided that these candidates are in order. [[Abg. Stroll: Don't be! There are also other variants!]] So this remains a possibility for the jure, but de facto none. That is why this is not consistently intended to end. It could be said that the National Council is supposed to order ministers at all. That would be a consistent proposal to the end. You can certainly talk about it. But, as it is now proposed, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is being dispossessed, but does not give the National Council the opportunity to take it on its cap, which will then be carried out, and ultimately the majority will determine their candidates; for the President of the Federal Republic of Germany it is all the more difficult, since he then has a positive decision from the National Council to reject one of these candidates. I therefore think that this is a request which is not coming to an end. I think that – the idea is once quite good, because it is very public and what I know is everything – for a giant show and everything possible, but otherwise it is nothing, because it is constitutionally not intended to end and is not present in our system. It's de facto a show you'd deliver there, and the majority would still decide on their candidates. [[Abg. Scherak: So public is a show for you!]] [[Abg. Stroll: So public is just show!]] That is why I believe that this proposal is a very big show effect, but that it does not have a place in the constitutional system, since it needs to be thought at the end. I therefore think that this proposal is wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13597	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13619	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Strolz, I am pleased that one day after the “press hour” with our Dr. Andreas Khol, in which he made the proposal to carry out hearings, which are on the agenda today, you are setting out a sign of approval of this proposal from our presidential candidates and are thus dissociating yourself from the former part of the Liberal Forum in your party, namely Heide Schmidt, who has still strictly condemned that a Federal President should attend a hearing in Parliament and listens to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Scherak: You have to agree to the request, too!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the same thing with NEOS: They're trying to turn the story around. As early as 2012, the Young People's Party had already proposed this hearing. There was no NEOS yet, Mr Strolz! [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] They've jumped on a train we've been up for a long time. From the Young People's Party to our presidential candidates, there was a clear proposal: Hearings in Parliament! [[Abg. Stroll: There is nothing good except you do it!]] Mr Wittmann, we understand ourselves very well, and I very much appreciate the work with you, but we have a bit of a difference here, because it depends on how to organize these hearings. It is true that the Federal President appoints the government, but this does not prevent us from also making a hearing in Parliament, because it has the possibility that everyone can imagine the qualities of the candidates in the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: That's right!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Are you voting for our request now?]] That is, I believe, important and necessary: a public hearing. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is still alone when he decides. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany can then decide on his own whether or not to follow an appointment proposal. Is that not a positive competence we are exercising? – If a candidate gets a positive feedback here, then the President of the Federal Republic is really hard to say: I refuse him! - Isn't it? – he really has to reason that very much. That is why this certainly raises the quality of decision-making, and we can prevent what we have had a few years ago. [[Abg. Stroll: That surprises me now!]] Maybe you remember: Minister of Justice Krüger, candidate for the Freedom Party, was Minister of Justice for Justice for two weeks. He wanted to have a Jaguar as a service car, and then he had to step back after two weeks. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Whose Saustall was that?]] If a hearing had been made, we would have saved all of this if he had said it right there. We shouldn't have praised the Minister. That's why it's quite clear: Hearings are right. I therefore do not understand at all why the Federal Presidential candidate Norbert Hofer, when a hearing was carried out by the Salzburg government, said it was about a political show. In 2013, Norbert Hofer spoke of a political show when hearings are made. Interesting the consistency between the camps that exist, from a little further left and a little further right. I think we need a two-thirds majority here in the House of Hearings for members of the government. That would only strengthen the quality here, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Stroll: Accept!]] We are here with some of our opinions, but we still have to fight for a two-thirds majority. Therefore: Let us discuss this in the Constitutional Committee! [[Abg. Loacker: Just agree!]] Let us see that we are creating a two-thirds majority! Perhaps in the next government programme, if we have a Federal President Andreas Khol, we can give him the opportunity to offer a government after a hearing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13769	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13790	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house and in front of the televisions! I think it's also funny: First of all, the ÖVP still says that it should not be useful to make the Federal presidential election campaign, but since the speech of Deputies Tamandel, every ÖVP speaker has come here and made the Federal presidential election campaign. I would, however, like to deal with the subject that we are dealing with, in fact, with the consultation of ministerial candidates in the National Council. I think the idea is very important, and it is important to think about it. In this context, I think it is particularly important that we make a similar request just one day before the NEOS. We have the opportunity to quote every minister – and we have to think about it a little bit – here in the House and question him about his current policy. Whoever is ordered by the Federal Government, but then five years no longer appears here in the Austrian National Council, these are the officials and Commissioners in the European Union. We have a very precise request on 26 May. In March 2014, we made and brought in the fact that we would like to have a hearing for them. We should then deal with this request together with the NEOS proposal in the Constitutional Committee. That is why we will, of course, agree to this proposal for a time limit, because we think that this is a good thing. However, we want the EU Commissioner, who is seen in Europe and indeed in the world as an Austrian, to consult the National Council. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why is this to be decided by the Federal Government alone and then never to be responsible for us again? Furthermore, we demand that not only the Federal Government chooses the Commissioner, no, there should be a hearing here in the House, in an analogous way to the appointment of the Volksanwälte, also all candidates for top positions in the European Union, in Europe and, of course, someone who is a candidate for the function of a Commissioner and is appointed here in agreement with the main committee of the National Council. We – and that is what you have perfectly described – here in the National Council, and not the Federal Government alone, are the representation of the people! That is why I am looking forward to the discussions in the Constitutional Committee and, of course, to Sunday. For me, there is no doubt – even if some here are trying to get their candidates into the game – that Norbert Hofer, who is known as an objective and extra-party candidate, will go to the election. Therefore, my dear fellow citizens, take the opportunity on Sunday, go to the elections to finally allow a free Federal President! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13833	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e13854	Mr President. I have to tell you that I normally like the debates on constitutional matters, whether they are short-term debates or time-limitation requests in committee on the basis of our requests or requests from other parties. Today, I really have to tell you, but what I feared is what happened: plumper Federal presidential election campaign. [[Intervocations at SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am sorry when the subject is a serious one, namely democracy. Mr Wittmann, if you say here that a statement by a certain candidate, namely Alexander Van der Bellen, comes close to a constitutional breach, I must tell you that could also be said about the candidate who is presented by your party – and that has hurt me particularly. [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] I have to tell you that I – I am now an ignorant lawyer – went to the Electoral Authority in connection with the declarations of support and wanted to make a statement of support for three candidates. I just didn't look into the law and I didn't know you were allowed to do that only for a candidate. [[Call to the ÖVP: But that's ridiculous!]] If I had noticed this earlier, I might even have prepared a request for it, because I actually would have liked to have a more general right of nomination. One of these candidates would have been Rudolf Hundstorfer, because I have known him for years – still from Vienna – and have always appreciated him and still treasure him very much – also as a social minister, where I have not understood at all why he is now taking up this candidate – but that is somehow his matter. Anyway, I was very disappointed last week when I learned that he made the following statement: A voice for Alexander Van der Bellen – and now it is not about him calling Alexander Van der Bellen – that would also apply to any other candidate – is a lost voice. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] I think this is an extremely undemocratic statement, and it really annoyed me as a democratic, because I asked myself: How stupid is the election people to be sold? – I hope that every Austrian and every Austrian, every person from 16th century onwards. Year of life, entitled to vote, has expressed her opinion on which candidate or candidate she considers to be the most appropriate or the most appropriate, and makes this choice. Why do we need to give some tactical advice here in Parliament or in any election campaign of the population?- Oh, my God! It is enough for us to act here permanently in accordance with the electoral tactics, so that five parties can come out here today, claim that this idea is their original idea, and report their motherhood, instead of somehow talking about what would be useful and what would not be useful. [[Abg. Prince: The Greens don't do this, do they?]] I'm only in this house for more than nine days – 27th. April is my last day in the National Council – but I really have to tell you this methodology, this atmosphere has always disturbed me and bothers me today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And yes, even the Greens – now I'm getting into these giants – consider this proposal to be good. For example, we, represented by Eva Glavischnig, have joined the Austrian Convention for him, where he has also been intensively discussed. We all know what happened to the results of the Austrian Convention. [[Abg. Wheelers:... not enforced!]] They have not been implemented, only isolated results have only been implemented over the past few years, but this proposal has not been implemented. Our proposal goes on even further! He goes so far as to say that not only a hearing but also a choice should take place; and her argument, Mr Wittmann, that was contrary to the constitutional classification is not true. You should know – and I think you know it too – that this proposal, in the common version of the 1920 Constitution, is under way. This is the variant of how it is available in 1920, and only through a constitutional change in 1929 has it come to be that variant that we have since then and have lived since. It is therefore not true that this is not in accordance with our Constitution. We are in favour of recasting the European model. This would mean transparency through a hearing, but also a broader decision – and not just that, as it happens now. But not only should this apply to the members of the Federal Government but also to many other functions, and the next one will soon be appointed, namely the President of the Court of Auditors or the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: President of the Court of Auditors, for example!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Good idea!]] In recent years, the hearings have taken place in the main committee, and the main committee must not allow the public at all. So I think it would be time to discuss whether this could not be done differently next time, for example within the Committee on Budgets, where all candidates can then be presented to the public as public information and transparency. We have been demanding this for a very long time: Together with Wolfgang Zinggl, Alev Korun and I have made a corresponding request regarding the Volksanwälten, not to follow the Usance that the three strongest parties nominate, but that a selection of people is actually made on the basis of competence and qualification, which is not part of it somewhere but that can do something. [[Abg. Rädler: Do you want to get back in?]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] The same applies to the Austrian members of the European Commission and the European Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Rädler: Time!]] Transparency is needed, not just for us, but for democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e14018	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e14042	Mr President. Whoever has listened to the debate now knows what this Republic is ill with: First of all, she is ill with it – Mr. Lugar will certainly still say that the Stronach team is doing well – that there are obviously five parties here who like a hearing for ministerial candidates, that there is a presidential candidate Khol, who likes it well, that there is obviously a young ÖVP who likes it very much... [[Congratulations and bravorufe at the ÖVP, where one points towards the gallery where Dr. Andreas Khol sits.]] – Mr Schönegger, I do not care who first had the idea is a fact, five parties believe that we need such a thing. Mr Gerstl made a small error in the calculation – he said we need a two-thirds majority. So when I try the following – let's go through it once –: Go from there to the Members of the NEOS, and then look at this! So I think that's a two-thirds majority! [[The speaker points to the extreme right margin of parliamentary seats, where the ÖVP is sitting, and underlines his further description with a swivel of the hand]] We could do this very quickly, Mr Gerstl – but the Republic is sick of it: that you two are so interconnected that it is not possible for us to implement sensible proposals that are being put in place in this Parliament accordingly. [[pointing towards ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] The second thing the Republic is ill with is the following – and dear Peter Wittmann, I appreciate you very much otherwise, but what you said here was truly stunning. You said public is a “show. ” – Well, let’s stop the National Council meetings! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] And we don't need to broadcast them on TV any more, because the public is a show – but we have to vote. The problem is only, everyone knows in advance how the votes are going in here – and that's what the people outside don't understand, which is why we ask again and again: What are you talking about, because we always know before the plenary how the votes will go, every time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] – If the public is just a show, we can save ourselves the whole thing here. I don't feel it as a show! I mean, the public has something to do with transparency, has something to do with what the citizens in this country expect of us, namely that we are serious about issues that we are discussing, that we are bringing in transparency. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] This begins with committees which are still not public in Austria. What is completely absurd is that Members meet in a committee and discuss something, if you know how such committees usually discuss: Mostly it takes two and a half minutes for the application to be postponed accordingly – just like this one. You're saying the show is?- Oh, my God! – The Austrian population may take a picture of what is on show here! I think that the public for this House, no matter in any way – whether it be in the committees, whether it be in the matter of the ministerial order, whether it be in a meaningful debate here in Parliament – is a command of the hour. And if, as obviously the SPÖ, someone wants these things to be turned out only in the back room, then that is all right – you can do that – I just think that the Austrian population has a different view. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] I think that we will now have the debate again in government reform, and I do not want to qualify here at all, whether the future Minister of the Interior, who sends the ÖVP from Lower Austria, is qualified for the job, or not – I do not at this moment, because there will be no hearing at all – but I believe that the procedure behind it must simply be questioned, namely the question of how self-confident this Parliament wants to be, and how the Parliament wants to be in public and say: Yes, we have a corresponding self-confidence, we don't like certain things either, and we believe that we have something to say. We now have a similar situation, where we realize that Parliament is not very self-confident, but obviously rather a Abnick machine of the Federal Government, which is where we are dealing with the intensifications in the asylum law. We have now been given an opinion in such wide-ranging variants by means of a committee opinion – which takes ten days, then there are a few days to work out when something meaningful comes out of the review, which I am going to assume in principle – but this is also a sham solution that we are doing here, because this Parliament is not self-confidence and it is unable to say clearly that it wants to participate at least in a hearing when ordering ministers, which I think is, in principle, quite important. I think it is hard for anyone in Austria to understand how this rochade went about, nor do I need to judge how the power conditions in the ÖVP are, and the ÖVP also deserves to decide for themselves who will be the next Minister of the Interior, but I think that we could discuss this without further delay and ask the head of state, Sobotka, how he wants to do his job, what he can do for it, and, and, and. It is a public debate, and a public debate is an essential part of the basic principle of democracy. The fact that the EIA only makes it itself is its right in the current situation, but it is absurd that we do not want to work on how to bring more transparency into this House and how we can create more transparency when it comes to reforms in the government. We know that this works quite normally in the European Union, that Commissioners are always being rejected by Parliament, because they are obviously not adequately qualified, because they are felt in a hearing, and we know that we in Parliament are doing so in other areas. There are, in principle, hearings about constitutional judges – you have to discuss them again and again, because if only they are alternates, the SPÖ may not have a hearing, which I also think is completely absurd – or there are also hearings in connection with the President of the Court of Auditors, even if they are not public. But all of this is something that should be quite logical and quite normal, namely that these backrooms, in which decisions are simply made in Austria at the moment, should be opened, ventilated and the population shared in the decision-making process. Nothing else is what our request is aimed at, and I think that the Austrian people have a right to see for themselves who is a minister or a minister in Austria and who belongs to the government. [[President Head gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e14128	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e14150	High house! If we look closely at it, we would not need such a hearing in Parliament at all. The fact that a German chancellor chooses the ministers themselves is quite a matter of course. Parliament has responsibilities, but it is certainly not Parliament's task to say who will or will not be a minister. Nevertheless, we are here today, and I too will agree that there should be such a hearing in Parliament. In this context, of course, the question arises: What happened? – Passed is the following: The head of state of Lower Austria has placed its own interests on the interests of its own party and the Federal Government as well as the Republic of Austria! There is Mr Sobotka, who would have liked to become the head of state, and who, as one hears, has demanded this post with some emphasis. And since Mr Pröll sought a way to get rid of Mr Sobotka, but he did not think anything better than to provide Mr Sobotka, with a post that may be better than that of a head of state in Lower Austria, Pröll simply decided over the head of the ÖVP, over the head of the Vice Chancellor and above the head of the entire Federal Government, Mr Sobotka becomes Minister of the Interior. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The whole situation in which we have experienced a permanent breach of justice of the government for over a year and now the Minister of the Interior – thank God! – It has come about that this breach cannot continue! In the meantime, Mikl- Leitner has taken the right path – and in this situation, a head of state of Lower Austria “disposes” his problem child Sobotka into the Federal Government without informing anyone about it! All of this with huge damage to the common good of our state. [[Call at the ÖVP:... Problem child?- Oh, my God!]] It may be that Mr Sobotka is a natural talent. Sobotka had today a speed dating with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, where Mr Sobotka said his qualification was to be seen in communication. Perhaps Sobotka is a natural talent; he may be doing that great, but the risk is enormous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shit helmet.]] That's why: We did not need a hearing in Parliament, if the head of government were to choose the staff for objective criteria. The government would have to sit down, that is, ÖVP and SPÖ, and make sense of who would be optimal as an interior minister. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Go, talk about...! Go, give a talk about...!]] In such a case, I would be in favour of Parliament holding out completely, but you can see how helpless you are by representing such a hearing in Parliament yourself today, because you yourself, as it were, need a protective sign to your overpowered country captain, who does what he wants to do – and then informs you of it. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Calls and counter-calls between MEPs Rosenkranz and Rädler.]] That is the problem we are facing, and that is why we need this control body, and that is why Parliament must do things that normally do not belong to Parliament. Parliament cannot decide on ministerial occupations; that is not necessary either. But in the special situation in which hundreds of thousands of refugees stand at our door and decide whether or not to let them in or not, a decision must be made. In this context, a law will come under which the government will be authorized to stop saying so. [[Abg. Wheelers: Get out of the...!]] It will also depend on whether you can enforce the European Union, because the European Union is determined to leave 3.5 million people each year for Europe. Every year, please – and for 20 years, up to 70 million people are here. If you do not want to believe this, please look at our Facebook page; on this the original speech of the Greek Avramopoulos, the EU Commissioner for Migration, has been put on the web so that everyone can be convinced that this is unfortunately the truth. 70 million people are to be admitted into the EU! There is already the question which Minister of the Interior we have here in Austria: Do we have an interior minister who says stop here – or do we have an interior minister who falls by because he is not interested in the Austrian population and the well-being of our country at all? [[Mr Tamandl and Mr Schittenhelm.]] That is the central question, and that is why we need a hearing to be able to pull the emergency brake. One point at the end: There, the divorced Federal President Fischer could make us a farewell gift and feel good about Mr Sobotka in order to find out if he will be an interior minister who the Austrians have earned – or whether one should go to a second round, as it were. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Perhaps there is someone at the ÖVP who would be able to lead such an important office. Who can rule out the fact that the ÖVP still finds someone who is going through the line that has now been taken, even after the election. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] That is the point, and that is why I very much hope for the current President of the Federal Fischer – or just for the future, Norbert Hofer.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e14282	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, to the Constitutional Committee for reporting on Amendment 348/A, a deadline of 18th. ==References== Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[17:05:48]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00121_d7e14318	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1620/A(E) to 1624/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 5.06 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
