ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6354	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Minister! I'll open the 157. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of the 154. Meeting between 22 and 24. ==References====External links== Meeting of 24. In November 2016, the management of the Parliament was unable to raise any objections. As prevented are reported today the MEPs Grillitsch, Dr. Nachbaur, Mag. Johannes Rauch, Kickl, Mölzer, Schellenbacher and Strache. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6388	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Hans Peter Doskozil is represented by the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Alois Stöger, Diplômé. I announce that this meeting will be held from 2 p.m. to 1 p.m. ORF III will be handed over live, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.45 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:07:39]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6429	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: “Technological change as an opportunity for the location Austria” Mr Klubobmann Mag is the first to speak. Arbitrator. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6456	Good morning, Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! “Technological change as an opportunity for the location Austria” was therefore also chosen as the theme for today’s current hour, because especially location policy can and should focus not only on the here, now and today, but must also have in mind the question: What are developments that affect the future, what are developments that we are currently in, and how can we make these developments as positive and meaningful as possible? In this context, I should like to draw attention to two current media reports to illustrate the change and changes we are in. Only recently did the largest German and one of the largest global sports goods and sports shoe manufacturers announce that he is now producing running shoes by means of 3D printers, that is, running shoes are no longer produced in a factory, even at a factory in Asia, but in the future, run shoes can be printed individually at any printer location. This sounds funny and like a marketing gag, but for the entire consumer industry and also for the entire raw material and production industry there is also the sign of a fundamental change, namely the decoupling of design, production, raw material production and finally final production. The second report, which has actually been discussed in the thinking world, is: In the 1970s, in the 1980s, we had the chess computer revolution, namely, that individual computer chess world champions beat. The much more complex game in this context is the Japanese Board Game Go; we all know it, at least from the crossword puzzle: Board game with two letters. But it is a much more complex game, because it represents 19 times 19 lines and it is no longer possible by learning only all given traits to draw meaningful, but only by thinking on, by combinations or by something like a stomach feeling. The Google Group has developed AlphaGo, a program such as this go computer itself is thinking about, learning from past mistakes, and creating something like an intelligent abdominal feeling if you want to call it that way. [[Abg. Lugar: Very good!]] This deep learning, as it is called in the scene, shows how artificial intelligence is now developing massively itself. The computer has beaten the Go Grand Master in four out of five games, something that has been considered impossible until recently. If we just put together these two messages, we see where the new world will be, namely in networking, Internet of Things, Industry 4.0, learning computers that teach themselves something that makes themselves more efficient, which also repairs itself, and thus presents itself in the production chain – I was only recently in a car plant where very few specialists in the production chain are now seen – of course the following situation: So far, the human being is the one who has programmed, repaired and improved the computer, but if you look at these messages, you have a bit of a feeling that perhaps in the future the computer itself will improve. From this machine learning back to the present: We are at the beginning of a development, a fundamental change. This digital revolution changes the economy and society, the world of work and production, but also social life – social media as a term is known to us anyway – and also the distribution of income, wealth and opportunities in our society. The approach to this challenge, to this fundamental challenge, therefore, does not have to be anti-progressal, but it must be in mind that we want to shape the future and that we also want to maintain the prosperity and knowledge-based, well-being society that we have with fair working conditions in the future. It also contains a commitment to the production site, to the industrial location Austria. The traditional raw materials industry goes hand in hand with research, start-ups and innovative industry. Without production and industrial location Austria, the research, start-up and creative economy is also not possible. We see how much these questions are connected. It is therefore also necessary to strengthen that and a commitment to the normal, classical, traditional industry. The social changes that come to us also need new answers. I'm just saying, Crowdworking, Prekariat – all of these are effects, where man threatens to lose a little bit of social security in this new development, which has been fought over the last 120, 150 years. It is therefore necessary, in the trade union organisation, in the operational co-determination, to think about these issues in the state social state organization, but also necessary to make our education system in terms of qualification and skills acquisition and further training future fitter. But one thing is also quite clear: Digitalisation needs a social agenda. The second is: We must also strengthen Austria's research site in this context. In the next few years, we will be pumping 1 billion € to Austria's research site; the Minister will, I assume, continue to address these points. A key word created by Minister Leichtfried in this context is Silicon Austria, a funding initiative that is increased from € 80 million annually to € 110 million. In total, €250 million, which flows into different research and future areas, is a very important point. The aim is to support the development of new production technologies, to support training and qualification, and to reduce the impact on work organisation and labour market. These millions, which will be invested there – usefully invested in the future – are €80 million for research infrastructures, such as the Early Stage project, with early stage projects being supported by €80 million, which are highly innovative and therefore also have a higher risk. There are €30 million for the growth fund, Silicon Austria, and, and, and. Many of these projects complete what this is all about. But it is also about the following – and this also belongs to clearly said at this point: When we talk about Austria's industrial location, we talk about an industrial site that is highly efficient, highly innovative, highly ecological, highly social and in remuneration and under working conditions fair and fair. We also need to strengthen, support and protect this location in global competition. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] If we are thinking only of the issue of China steel, where in China overproduction capacities under unhumane working conditions, under unecological and unfair working conditions prevail and the Chinese want to undermine the European market with dumping prices, we must say: I believe that this is a clear way forward by the European Commission. Unfortunately, this has not been understood by everyone in Europe, so I am also grateful for the fact that some social-democratic trade unions and MEPs have launched a parliamentary citizens' initiative here, which already has tens of thousands of supporters. One thing can't be: that we let our social state, our production site be undermined by unfair conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, it must be said: Innovation is the foundation for progress, technological and social progress, but progress must not only be thought of technologically and economically, but progress must above all be thought of ecologically and socially. In other words, the social state, the financial security of the social state, also the discussion of whether our tax model does not have to give answers, is urgently needed to answer these future issues in such a way that what we have in terms of living standards, quality of life, quality of innovation and quality of production in Austria can also be maintained in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6507	For a preliminary opinion, Mr Mag. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6530	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you think about Industry 4.0 or digitalization, you can actually find a fascinating development: It is said that in the future the lathe can communicate with the screw that it produces and that any errors are reported from the screw to the machine. It is said that the stock stand itself is automatically checked and re-ordered automatically. It is said that manufacturing machines can react flexibly to disturbances, to failures and to regulate these failures themselves – but that is only a part of Industry 4.0, which is only a part of digitalization. Recently, we discussed the following question: Is this a revolution now, or is it a evolution? – The thesis was then, it is a evolution with R, i.e. a very fast evolution. This development naturally covers the entire spectrum of our society: It's not just industry, it's tourism, it's medicine, it's services, and it's especially the life outside the economy, the private life, where we're confronted with developments that we probably can't fit and estimate right now. I believe that we can rightly say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are very well placed in the field of digitalization in Austria. We are just creating broadband infrastructure, we are one of the first countries to get into 5G pilot projects. Austria, together with Germany and Sweden, is one of the front runners in this development. We have, ladies and gentlemen, and we cannot stress that often enough, an industrial sector with 21.7 percent of gross domestic product, an industrial sector that is almost nowhere else. This is where it turns out that we have so far been very proud of the storms of the world economy and that we can and must continue to do so in the future in order to continue in global competition. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would really like to say the following: There are many discussions about what we can be proud of in Austria, but I think our industry, that is really something we can say, we are proud that we have such a thing in our country and that we have achieved these achievements – together, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Dietrich.]] Of course, you have to keep thinking: According to a McKinsey study, industry 4.0 applications – and McKinsey is certainly not suspected of being left-wing – have a very, very high potential in Austria, an additional turnover potential of up to €14 billion and an efficiency potential of up to €10 billion. [[Abg. Pretty:... 14?]] We have clearly recognized: The previous success path was to join forces, to work together – politics, economy, science – to move forward together; and we have great opportunities – with public hands, with employers, with employees, workers, as well as with science and research – to continue to rise. We live this broad approach, ladies and gentlemen. With the Industry 4.0 platform, we have set up a body that is unique worldwide, a body that responds exactly to these challenges. We have managed to bring together the economy, the workers' interests, science, research and politics to put our country in good shape. This year alone, my house invests € 185 million in the digital transformation of the economy and society. We are creating – Mr. Klubobmann has already mentioned it – a new research centre, Silicon Austria, foundation professorships, pilot factories. That is, we are not just preparing for this digital revolution, we are in the middle and we are also implementing it, ladies and gentlemen. One thing is clear, in all the discussions on this issue one has to be perfectly aware of: We cannot choose whether to participate in this development. What we can decide is whether we're swimming or whether we're on the front. - Ladies and gentlemen, in this case I am in favour of being on the front. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Lightenecker.]] The priorities are therefore relatively clear: Create a framework for Austria to be the location for electronics products at world-class level. Electronic systems are the key to digital production. Those who are on the front line are ladies and gentlemen in digital production, which is why we need to improve and strengthen in this area, so we have created Silicon Austria, which is why we focus on the fact that electronics products are world-class products from Austria in the future. That's also important, I think. But one thing you also have to say: With all the enthusiasm for this technical development, with all the joy of our high competitiveness, with all enthusiasm for our economic strength, one must be clear: All of these are means that serve to make people better. Man has to be at the heart of all ideas and developments, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] This, of course, also leads to the following questions: What does this development mean for jobs in the future? What does it mean for workers? What new challenges are those that we have to face in this area? – The more intensive one looks at this, the more certain one is that this is not a risk to our jobs, that this will not result in fewer jobs – that will be about the balance – but it already shows that the challenges are getting bigger and bigger. The challenges must exist, for that there are, I think, good examples. You can see that at Magna in Styria, for example. Magna offers 3 000 new jobs, needs 3 000 new employees – this is the result of this development, which is the result of the enormously high competitiveness of these innovative enterprises. It is important to ensure, together, that not only these jobs are available, but also that people are able to practice these jobs. This is about education, training, continuing training, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. New builder: value added!]] This is just as important as thinking about how to get new machines. It is about qualifying our Austrians for the new time, and that is what we are going to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Moser: And lower the cost of pay!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is important that we are aware of one thing: Digital competence is not a unique competence, digital competence is a bundle of competences to be acquired. It is about forcing education and lifelong learning even more, it is about thinking about the learning place of operation, and it is also about raising interest in technology even more, which, in my opinion, is the biggest challenge, both for men and for women, because at present it is still that half of us probably have a much higher potential. I think it is time to inspire women for technology and bring women into engineering professions, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Lightenecker.]] Our country has a great opportunity with this development. We have the opportunity to continue to be among the best, we have the chance to continue to rise economically, we have the chance to bring back productions that have migrated to Austria. We have these opportunities for the future, ladies and gentlemen, it is our effort to master them or not, and I am in favour of mastering them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6629	I now draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 5 minutes for all other participants in the current hour in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Katzian is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6657	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I think today's hour gives us a good chance, in connection with technological change, to look at the overall situation. In the Committees, we are often very busy in detail discussions and many topics, and I think it is very good to look at the overall situation and how it develops. In the first speeches we have already heard – I believe that everyone and each of us can understand – that there are huge transformation processes and that there are no major changes ahead, but are actually in full swing. We are talking about technical change, about digitization and must take note and observe that it is a basis for many new business models, but also for new processes in the individual companies and industries, that the value chain changes, that industry borders erode and partly dissolve – with all the consequences for the respective economic sectors, but also for the work itself, for the working world and ultimately for living together in society. I would like to thank the Federal Minister very much for the fact that his ministry has set up appropriate activities with the Industry 4.0 platform in order to approach the content at this level on the one hand and to look at where we need to turn on which wheels to get ahead accordingly. We speak of Industry 4.0, which is often referred to as the fourth industrial revolution. Now you can easily argue about whether it is a revolution or a evolution. Fact is – a look back worth it all the time –: first industrial revolution around 1800 in conjunction with the steam machine, second industrial revolution at the end of the 19th century. Century with electricity, new forms of communication, third industrial revolution in the 1970s with computer technology, and now we are talking about the Internet of Things and digitization. The interesting thing is: All these major processes of change have always had something to do with technical progress, and society and also workers have always been confronted with responding appropriately to this technical progress, because it has accompanied a massive increase in productivity and it has become possible to achieve many things that previously more people have done through the use of less human labour force. All these processes were therefore also a struggle in history and a struggle for a fair distribution of work: In 1885 the first working time restriction on 11 hours, 1918/1919 of the eight-hour day, 1959 the 45-hour week with general collective agreement, 1969 the 40-hour week, today in many collective contracts the 38.5-hour week. Distribution of work has always been associated with technical progress and technological change, and every major leap in technical development has ultimately led to social progress. I would like to make it clear that technical progress or progress as a whole without social progress is not progress from my point of view and therefore, in my opinion, these things must go hand in hand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What, then, is to be done to benefit from this opportunity? – It is about qualification – the Federal Minister has already said a lot about this – it is also about how we can help those people who are now in work and are likely to lose their job to reorientate and qualify; in the banking sector we are doing this at the moment, we are in final negotiations for a work foundation in this area. There will be other ideas and other priorities. We must also ensure that those who benefit from digitalisation also contribute to the stabilisation and further financing of social security systems. It cannot be used for all that is needed as a basis, and ultimately for workers to be left alone when it comes to social security. Therefore: Yes, we also need regulatory monitoring at European level, at the legislative level and in collective agreements and ultimately a reduction in working time. Finally, people's lives have to be improved – that's what has already been said today – and the basis for this is a good income, in the ideal case of 1,700 €, I would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6700	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6721	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think it is good that we are talking today about such an important topic of the future, and I am also aware that technological change is certainly not a phenomenon ahead of us, but a change in which we are already in the middle of it. Technological change is diverse and far-reaching, affects many of our areas of life, has already changed it today and will continue to change it in the future. The basic question here, of course, is: Is it a chance? Is it a danger? Is it a change that, as it happens here, is positive or negative? – In my opinion, it is clear The first is an opportunity that we must take, but also understand in politics, to act accordingly, because on the way there is also a need for clear framework conditions – and I stress this as well – so that the location of Austria in total can benefit from it. This begins with the infrastructure for which the Minister is also responsible, with a comprehensive broadband development, namely an infrastructure which will reflect tomorrow's needs and take into account future developments, for example 5G. It's also clear: Many developments are based on the Internet, based on networking, such as for self-driving vehicles, cars, trucks, the case, or Industry 4.0. But it is also about how we can control that future developments take place with us, that Austria is perceived as a location where creativity and new ideas are welcomed and also promoted. I therefore believe that the open innovation strategy adopted here in the House in November is important, as is the fact that more money is available for basic and applied research with the forthcoming budget. Of course, it's also about start-ups, which has already been mentioned, but I would say it in general: It is about all young entrepreneurs that we receive them with open arms. The start-up package is important, which has been decided here; and I would also like to extend it, especially in the sense of all young entrepreneurs, that, for example, they also benefit from additional wage support, for these too are guarantees that our economic system will be new and that it will be included in our economic system and in our companies. But not only economy, but also work changes overall: Tasks are falling away, new ones are coming. Our professional perspectives are changing, and professional change will also be more frequent. That is, lifelong learning is not an empty floscle, but really a subject that will also accompany us in the long term on the job path. In my opinion, this also includes working time flexibility, not only from the business side, but also from the employee side. Digitalization enables us to be in contact with our customers at any time with our office, with our employees, and the employees therefore also want to be more flexible so that they can freely set their time for themselves when they work. Of course, this is probably more at peak times, but at other times you can take out more leisure time again. I also believe that we can give employees this responsibility, give them this confidence, and allow them more freedom. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, education is one of the biggest issues when we talk about technological change and digitization. Today, we will discuss and vote on a resolution which, in my opinion, includes many important points that are needed in school: technical equipment, digital skills, programming. We need these skills, even in order to contribute to technological change itself. The IT sector in Austria is growing twice as fast as the overall economy, but especially in the ICT sector, we have a large shortage of skilled workers – more than 3,000 experts are already missing today, according to AMS, and this number is also steadily increasing. In this context, of course, many other topics – data protection, big data, health, mobility – that we will certainly still address today. I would like to mention one more point: The change, the change, of course, also leads to fear, which is reflected in many discussions with the citizens, in the media: the fear of job loss, of not being able to hold on to being losers of change. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Yes, many jobs have been lost by technological change, but many have been added again, and many studies have shown that I can join the Minister. A study by the Centre for Economic Research shows that, although 10 million jobs have been lost in recent years, 20 million new jobs have also been created. [[The speaker presents a board with a bar chart entitled “Technologisation as a Job Engine” “EU: 1999-2010: 10,000 new jobs” to the speaker’s desk.]] Finally, I would like to say: We need to take advantage of this opportunity!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6799	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6821	Good morning, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is true what is today in the title of this current hour: technological change as an opportunity for our location. There are many aspects that support this technological change or are part of this technological change: broadband development, increasing digitalisation, security – security, not in the sense of internal security or in the military sense, but, for example, when self-driving cars add an additional safety factor in road transport – of course, also the keywords Big Data and Industry 4.0. So, and now we come to the situation in Austria: We know what has been done in Austrian politics or in the Austrian Federal Government for several years: Problems, opportunities, risks are not even managed again. All these points need to be realized to this end. It is in the background a kind of industrial revolution, or partly this process is already running, and we have been waiting for the results of the broadband offensive for years. It is also known that training standards are becoming increasingly important, which is one of the key social issues in this context. It does nothing if we know that we need good training standards, and at the same time the PISA results are getting worse and worse in order to get nice talk. We need – and this is the elementary – graduates of the MINT subjects, they are the key to this industrial revolution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] An example from China, which has already been taken as a negative example: There a graduate of the MINT subjects has a much higher image than, for example, a graduate of communication sciences, and seven out of eight political bureau members are engineers. We should take this as an example, so that we do not have the rulers of the roses and the orchids in front of us, but those who know what we are talking about. If we say that in the course of Industry 4.0 we should continue to develop into the knowledge society, then it is not enough if at the same time we fail to evaluate the students in education, and only notice them more verbally, because if the little Frenchman can dance his name but cannot expect it, then that is not enough at Weitem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is also in this context a study by Professors Frey and Osborne of Oxford University on the rationalization potential of digitization, that is, there is a real threat to our social standard. The way to this Industry 4.0 – which is now only a keyword – will shape the nearer future. But it is also an opportunity when it is recognised, and if you look at the European future, which is to shape it, and the framework that is to be designed a little bit. How does the industrial environment look? – In France and the UK, the “large” states – under quotation – the share of industrial production or GDP in industry is falling dramatically. The light paths are in Germany and in Austria, and these two countries match with the USA the one side and with China and Japan on the other side. That is to say, we will have no substantial support from the French, the English and the South countries in this further expansion of the industrial phase. If you look in detail at where the strengths of Austria are, this is our current industrial base. Where our weakness is, you can also analyze very dry: On the one hand, this is the cost situation, that is, our social prosperity, which we do not want to abandon, but at the same time it is the patent system. Patents are not made at the Patent Office, but because of this lack of education on science, we are no longer as innovative as we have in recent years. We have to think industry once, 4.0 think, not Industry 4.0, but Thinking 4.0! On the one hand, there is the fear of workers' representatives coming with regulations, bans and commandments, on the other hand, the lobby is coming that we are so classic anyway, and our industry can do anything anyway. - No! What I expect from politics and above all from this federal government is to design and manage, and a first step would be to take a little more people who have actually worked in industry, in research and development, in consultative functions and not any communication scientists. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This occasionally interesting chatter around the Industry 4.0 may be interesting for communication science, and our society does not continue. Our society only continues if we really focus on this process and shape it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6897	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6918	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Digital change has been underway for a long time, and we are finally in the middle of it. The difference to the past is that pace and dynamics are increasing. This poses great challenges to many areas, and yes, of course, we are in a profound structural change in the economy. There are new products, new services, other business models and new distribution channels. These are requirements for which the appropriate solutions are also to be found. Of course, it concerns all the working and living worlds; in particular, the working world is required in a special way. The discussion is very controversial. I believe it is very important to take into account, in this area, the subject matter, the subject matter, the facts and the facts. The discussion is between two Poles. On the one hand, there is the debate about the empty factory halls, about cash register systems in the supermarkets without employees, and about care robots in the homes. At the same time, at the same time, jobs will be created, other jobs will continue to be created, and this will also bring great challenges. These changes in the working world also mean changes in the value chains and thus also a fundamental debate on social systems and tax systems; this is also to be considered. The big theme Big Data covers many areas that can be associated with it. This is the issue of data protection, which is the subject of data security and, of course, the question of how this new raw material is handled. All these are areas that challenge us, and at the same time there is not only the digital change and the issues it raises, but general challenges that affect our environment that confront us with climate change. What does that mean for demographic development? What do the migration movements mean? – All this needs solutions and answers. Some of these answers will be innovations. Mr Deimek, innovation lives by creativity, creativity lives by openness, and openness obviously means that it is equally important to study so-called orchid subjects and to have professionals in this field. Of course, it is also said that children can not only read, write and calculate very well, but also have other expressions like dancing, that is also to be emphasized in this area. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Of course, when it comes to innovation, it takes courage, curiosity, learning, working together across borders. These are the challenges we face. Digital change is an innovation driver and innovation is part of these solutions. I would also like to stress today that it is not just technical solutions, these solutions will also be social and organisational. This must be emphasized without that it is not possible that the focus on technology would be too short. Finally, these new technologies will also be concerned with looking at what opportunities and risks are and how we best accompany this with the solutions. We need a solution-oriented approach, and here in Parliament too, we have a very good project in the field of technology assessment. All parties have cooperated in this project, continue to cooperate, and I believe that this is also an important contribution. I also believe that Austria is a good industrial location, that it should continue to be, and that is what it is to be done. I am convinced that in the field of digital change we need the essential design requirement. If we are in 20th place in the Networked Readiness Index – so how fit we are for the digital future – then, I believe, we need action; but that is feasible, and we should work on it. It will be a matter of strengthening education, of strengthening qualifications, of setting research priorities in these key areas, and above all it will be a matter of supporting the people working in the enterprises in a very concrete way, and of putting in place initiatives in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, along with the legal framework needed to do so. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Mr Minister, I would like to bring together the various points I have now raised: Austria needs a digital strategy 2025. We must be clear where we want to stand in 2025 and how we get there, how we achieve the goals. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] I think that is the political challenge, and it is an invitation to work together on it. It is feasible that we get to the top and then stay at the top.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e6997	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7018	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Yes, digitization is the largest Game Changer, the largest social change for decades. Change means change, and that sounds like Some of them are threatening. We've heard some good analyses now. What my colleague, Mr Lichtenecker, has told us, I like this in the problem analysis and also in the approaches to how we solve it. The recognition of opportunities is something that many find very difficult. There is, for example, a statement by Thomas J. Watson, IBM President, from the 1940s: “I think there is a world market for about five computers.” – He has a little appreciated, we still have more than five computers in operation, IBM still exists. But you can't take such a statement really bad either, because at that time computers took entire rooms – and these were large spaces. This has changed very quickly, and the formulation of this change also has a name, the so-called Moore’s Law. This means that the complexity, the number of circuit components of integrated circuits in the cycle doubles from one to two years, one goes out on average of 18 months. This results in a curve that you all know – a Power Law, the Moorish Law – that looks like a power law. [[keeping a graphic in height]] If you turn this distribution around, so reflect, then there is another well-known graph, I have drawn the reflection on the other side – that is, graph in the sense of curve, not like one who sells flu masks –: [[Keeping another graphic in height]] This is called the Pareto distribution or also long tail. The following phenomenon is to be read at this curve: For example, if you have a trading company that sells on the left hand side the bestsellers, that means that on the right hand side are the shopkeepers. And what happens now through digitalization? – By digitization, by the virtualization of goods, the economic boundary shifts. That is, the shopkeepers here on the right become economically usable at once because, for example, capital bonding costs in the warehouse are lost. There are phenomena here, such as democratization of means of production, the decline of entry barriers in markets, niches become usable. This not only has to be technology, it can also be the case with completely different phenomena. For example, think of Uber, think of Airbnb! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] Overcapacity, even if created by random means, is exploited and distributed differently by democratization of distribution. There is a link between supply and demand at a global level. In other words, little demand in a market can be made much more widely in demand in another market, and these technological platforms bring this together. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] That's nothing new at all, these stories have been working on us for ten years. I just want to do this to show that we have already slept this change in many areas. In the media sector, there are very big upheavals, as entire business models break away. The media advertising market is swallowed by companies such as Google or Facebook, which some may call media in some terms, but we definitely have to argue about it. This problem, of course, goes to politics. We always believe that we are not affected by this change, are immune. However, the question of politics is no longer what role the network plays in democratic society for us, but what role democracy can still play in the connected society. At any rate, politics is required to understand the phenomena that occur as an opportunity and also to treat them as legitimate. We've got a lot of passwords. Listen, here's the talk of Industry 4.0, of Internet of Things, the Internet of Things. But we can also bring quite different terms into the meeting, such as: Disintermediation, Automation, Screening, Decentralization, Augmentation, Robotization, Intelligence. There's a lot we could talk about. But: Where is the legislation in this area? – The phenomena we are discussing here have long been out of date. That means we have to take a step forward here and also anticipate things. I don't hear anything about that. Here I hear good approaches that can, so to speak, fix the mistakes that have already been made, but are not directed towards the future. We must bring the fear of change out of our minds: a little less UNESCO, a little less Katzian in our minds.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7096	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7118	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Machines push out jobs, and this is because machines can do what they can better than humans. That is the case in all areas, and that has been the case since the industrial revolution. Look at the machine towers in England between 1811 and 1833! What was the background? – There the mechanical weaving chair was introduced, and from one day to another hundreds of thousands of weavers and staff in the textile industry were unemployed. One year later, the death penalty was even introduced for all those who destroyed Webstuhls because they were afraid of their jobs. We still see the development of those days. The union feeds this picture again and again, saying: Yes, the machines are so bad and the machines push out jobs! – Yes, it is, but on the other hand, new jobs are created. If you look at the whole economic situation and look at the situation in England at the time where hundreds of thousands of people were unemployed by these machines, you can see that there were two effects: Firstly, these people have found another job within a short time, and secondly, the textiles have suddenly become much cheaper, which in general has increased prosperity. We see exactly these effects. That is, always where machines are used, it becomes a profit for the economy; that's why you do it, but you have to do it right. Perhaps another recent example: They build motorways passionately. They will notice that today, building motorways, one needs only a hundredth of the people who used to need it. If today one stands there, there were hundreds standing there with the shovel in hand. Today there are excavators, big machines and so on. What to do You as an old socialist now? Do you send the machines home, or do you blow the machines and get the unemployed to build the motorways with the shovel? - No, you don't. And do you know why you don't do it? – Because the economics doesn't make sense! You have to let the machines do what they can, and people do other things. Now we come to digitization, which you repeatedly address: The only difference between then – machine storms, industrialization – and today is that the development is getting faster and faster. That is, the machines are taking on increasingly fast jobs for the people. Now it's about not being afraid and being afraid of how you do this: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hakel]] Now the machines are coming, and they're going to be intelligent, and in a few years, the machines will also repair machines – by the way, they already do, but not to this extent – and in a few years you won't need people anymore! They scare this fear, but we don't have to fear the machines and the artificial intelligence, we have to fear politicians, not politicians who produce and spread fear like you, instead of showing the solution. [[Rejoicing at SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hakel and Mr Rädler]] And the solution is simple: When the machines come and we lose work, then we need framework conditions that bring back to work those people who lose work or – and now we are in the hands of an old socialist idea – the unconditional basic income. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Stutter.]] That would work all of a sudden. Today, of course, this does not work, but in 20 years, if there is artificial intelligence and if the machines also produce machines and repair themselves and then the machines work mainly in all those areas where people still work today, such an unconditional basic income would be feasible so that people no longer depend on employment, no longer have to clear out channels and do other things, but can do things that also make them fun. That would make this revolution possible. We only need framework conditions and not politicians who, like the machine towers, try to prevent this from happening with machine taxes and all the possible means, as well as in the Internet and in the trade, where, on the one hand, the trading companies in Austria are restricted, tell them when to lock up and lock them up, and on the other hand, like rabbits staring at the snake when on the Internet 24 hours of goods are offered. We need proper framework conditions, but you are not in a position to do so, nor are you the union that is just afraid. That's why: Let's be glad when machines take over jobs that nobody wants to do anyway! Let us give people the opportunity to actually start something meaningful with their lives and not to let themselves be pressed into work! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] The union always says: fair distribution of work. – I look at this when 500 crapbags stand in front of Parliament, whether you want to distribute justly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] I'm right if that makes a robot or a machine. That's why: Has You don't fear, create proper framework conditions; and then man will finally be freed from the work that nobody wants to do anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7211	The next item is Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7244	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the middle of the age of digitization, already all social classes and, of course, the different professional sectors are affected. This means that the working world will change, so far known to us professions will disappear in the coming years, and new professional groups will emerge. Digitalization, however, not only brings about a change in the economy and in the working processes, but also becomes houses, cars or even clothing now connected to the Internet. Issues such as health or safety also become digital. – Yes, we are in the middle of the economy and society 4.0, and we need to prepare for it! In order to make the best possible use of this technological change for the Austrian site, it is necessary to provide some framework conditions for policy. What do I mean by that? – The availability of high-performance broadband is of central importance for the Austrian site. We also need to prepare for the amounts of data that come to us – keyword: self-driving cars – so that we can create the necessary infrastructure for the business location 4.0. Austria is very good in comparison: We have a much higher high speed rate compared to Germany. Of course, we also need to respond to the new developments in education and youth employment, because the digital world must already find its place in education. Austrian start-ups, such as Runtastic, Shpock, Kiweno, but also N26 have already shown us impressively how quickly the field of work can change and new careers arise. But they have also shown us that many young people in particular are becoming increasingly self-employed and start-ups and are also recruiting very young employees. But this also presents us with new challenges in the field of training: The lack of skilled workers in the field of technology. I was at the Google Centre in Zurich last week. In 2004 Google started with two employees in Zurich, today, twelve years later, the company has 1,800 employees, over 90 percent of them are engeneres, i.e. technicians, and the employees come from 75 nations. Shpock, the mobile flea market app, a start-up from Austria based in Vienna, started four years ago and now more than 100 employees from over 20 nations, most of them technicians. We must therefore change the framework conditions so that we can get to a world-class level in the field of technology. Therefore, interest in technology must be aroused early; Programming must already be part of the curriculum in the folk school, and programming must also become a teaching profession. Education and lifelong learning will become just as important as the place of learning to operate, i.e. business education and training. Because I mentioned Google earlier: I also believe that we are currently, above all, still lacking a legal framework within the EU so that users and businesses, too, know exactly what may and cannot happen on the Internet. People must be able to be sure that the European rules on data security and consumer protection apply even if the Internet dealer or provider of services – keyword: Airbnb, Google, YouTube, Uber and so on – comes from the USA, Canada or China. Yes, society needs to be prepared for what technological progress means for its own data, so it needs media education in kindergartens, schools, universities, but also, of course, in companies. Last year, I had the opportunity to have a lot of conversations with different stakeholders from the start-up scene and to listen to their concerns about what their problems are. With the start-up package of the Federal Government, we have certainly already taken a big step in the right direction. In addition to the Silicon Austria Research Centre, which starts the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, a start-up campus in Vienna is needed to make better use of Austria's economic location. What do I mean by start-up campus? – On the one hand, young start-ups should have the opportunity to rent there, but on the other hand also have the opportunity to hire with to co-operate large successful companies. There, there should be educational facilities, leisure facilities, housing facilities and childcare facilities, i.e. everything you can find in a crossword, but specifically focused on start-ups. Austria is on a good path! We don't need to hide and can go to the future with self-confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7311	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7332	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The best way to predict the future is to shape it. Mark Twain once formulated: “Of course, I’m interested in the future. Finally, I want to spend the rest of my life in it.” I also consider today's topic of the current hour to be very important and believe that we sometimes discuss it too late. In political design, one should always act in the future; and digitization is, of course, the topic of the future. Introductory of course also the finding: Digitalization has long been there. Mr Alm has carried out to Moore’s Law – I would like to very much support that –: In the last 50 years, computer chips have doubled every 18 months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] It is assumed that this will continue to be the case in the future, and this has also led to this digitization being there for a long time. Virtual offices are there: 24 hours, seven days a week, the place no longer plays the big role. Last year I had the opportunity to meet young Austrian entrepreneur Leo Widrich. Leo Widrich graduated from California with a fellow student, went to California, Silicon Valley, where he founded a company – $5,000 start-up capital. After two months he would have almost returned to Austria, but the company then – so-called – began to fly, now 100 employees from 40 nations and – that is the special – no more office. The office is only the virtual world: Home office, coworking and more. Digital marketplaces and online booking platforms are now a reality – we all know that. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I would like to remind you that in the last National Council meeting, we also responded for the first time to a concrete development in the field of digitalisation. We have forbidden booking platforms to apply the best price clause. We have responded here, and this will be necessary in other areas to respond politically. We do banking on the Internet; digitization has long been there and the sharing economy has also made digitization possible. I would like to say in principle that the Sharing Economy offers real opportunities – this too has already been done by Mr Alm. I got in early this morning by car from the city border of Vienna, of course, it was as always very tiresome – long traffic jam – and if you watch these cars, you can see that almost every car has a single driver. If digitalization makes it possible to plan resources better, to use them better, then of course it makes sense. However, I would like to say right now – and I am addressing these private taxi services now – that it is also very clear that there is obviously a need for a level playing field between a traditional provider and these so-called new providers. Is this digitization a threat or a chance? – In the foreground is always the question: How are the jobs going? There is this famous study of Osborne and Frey from America: Every second job in the next 20 years will change. There is a study from Germany on the consequences of digitization. So there's a lot about us. Much will change, but I think it is extremely important to see the opportunities in political design. Where are the chances? – The opportunities lie very clearly also in personal freedom, one can work 24 hours or seven days a week, or choose the place. This can be seen as a threat or as a chance. There are many people who want this individual freedom. It is an opportunity for rural regions. If the place is freely available in the area of service development, this can be a huge opportunity for rural regions. It can be a contribution to better organise compatibility between work and family. If it's easy to work at home, you might also be able to organize the family better in the future. Repetitive work, work that really also harms health, will be taken over by the computer – you can also evaluate it very positively – and, of course, digitalization will lead to an increase in productivity. This can, if we do it properly, also strengthen the location of Austria with certainty. Of course, the condition for me to return to my favorite topic is that we have to provide regions with broadband infrastructure, with fiber optic infrastructure. The Federal Government, Austria is on a good path, the first programmes have been implemented. The programs backhaul, access and also empty pipe were advertised. I think it is very good to evaluate these issues now, to look at how they work. On this occasion I would also like to mention the model Niederösterreich, the Lower Austrian way. There is the three-level model, which I would also like to give the other federal states very much. There are the three levels. There is the passive infrastructure that remains in public ownership. We then have the active network operator, which gives almost the light into the network. Then we have the competition at the level of the providers. Why is the model exemplary? – It is exemplary because we both create: We take on the public service task of maintaining these data networks in public ownership, but we still do manage to ensure that competition actually occurs at the provider level, because of course only competition will ensure that the corresponding quality and the corresponding prices are in place with the bandwidths. In conclusion: What are the main political conclusions? – Fair competition: New suppliers come to the traditional market. There is a policy to ensure that this competition is fair. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I believe that the subject of working time flexibility is a matter for us. One thing is quite clear on this issue: This must be used by employers and employees. Essentially, it is about us taking advantage of the opportunities of digitization. I'm not worried about Austria's location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7411	Mr Dr. Karlsböck is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7435	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Today's success is already history tomorrow. To keep Austria up-to-date, we need to continually improve and sharpen our framework conditions. Under the framework conditions, I understand infrastructure, the education system, the economic conditions and, of course, the climate and the policy that must work modularly. Much has already been said about the infrastructure. This is, of course, a fundamental condition: Computers, roads, transport systems and the like. Relatively little has been said about the most important, namely – and you, Mr Minister, have mentioned this –: In order for the qualified jobs that are created, including with people, to be filled and filled with descendants, a functioning education system is needed. Because this week we have once again received disastrous results presented by the PISA study; and the reaction of politics was exactly what we do not imagine, namely to abolish notes, to evade performance, to abolish discipline and to introduce a lifelong companionship, not promoters and demanders. I know, then the accusation comes back, we have some kind of stone-time pedagogy that we want to use there. However, I tell you – we have also announced this in broadcasts – that we will still be discussing this today under a agenda item –: It needs effort, performance, discipline, otherwise the system won't work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After all, we must keep up with China, South Korea, Russia and the USA. There, all of this is a matter of course. After primary school, the university arrives. That's where we have a success model. This success model is the technical college. Thereby these principles are applied: We have a recording test there, we have study fees there, we have an application-oriented curriculum there, and the whole thing is based on performance. This is an important pillar for our young academics. It looks different at the university again. Today's university has a lot of problems that we can't discuss right now. I just want to say: It looks very, very gloomy in the field of teaching and research due to the so-called tenure tracks for medium-sized construction at universities. We are also concerned to draw up proposals, and we will present them in a programme in January and February. In any case, we want to compare ourselves with the Silicon Valley. They say: Silicon Austria is to be created! – Yes, I was there this year and I looked at it. And I don't have to repeat what's going on positive. Anyone who goes there says this is a sensation, emphasizes the mood, the atmosphere there. - Yeah, that's right. Why is that there? – There blows through the courses of the universities, which are also located in the narrowest room, the Wind of Change. What do we have? – We have the Fog of Stagnation in the universities. We have to bring out the dusty ideologies of the old-eighties from universities – and I say this now – and at the Austrian universities we need a performance offensive, performance-oriented, world-wide academic sprinter and cross-country running structure. Only in this way can we produce and maintain performance in international comparison. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, of course, there is also a need for economic conditions – and you have said that correctly, Minister – but: In Austria there is every Many bureaucratic obstacles, which unfortunately suffocates all creativity already in the germ and thus makes the settlement of important international technology carriers more difficult. They presented a survey, a study; unfortunately, I have here another one that was carried out on behalf of the US Chamber of Commerce in Austria by the consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, which attests to the Austrian economic location a falling attractiveness to around a hundred companies from the USA. Only 8 percent of US companies that participated in the surveys believe that the quality of the site in Austria has improved. 35 percent, on the other hand, see deterioration. In all the problem areas, Austria has thus further deteriorated in the last half of the year, which makes it even more negative than in the last survey. Unfortunately, this is a reality. ==References== An ambitious research package was adopted in November of the year. However, we will have to wait for how these things are actually equipped with financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen, what is missing for us is the new spirit of foundation, an innovation-friendly climate and a corresponding spirit of departure. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] This requires, as has been said, a double strategy: On the one hand, it takes attractive research conditions to train young talents, and on the other hand the reduction of bureaucratic barriers in order to make Austria's technology location more inviting and prevent the departure of innovative companies. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7511	Next, Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7532	Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Perhaps, when talking about technological change, one should look back once a hundred years. That's why I enter with a text by Peter Rosegger, who wrote the following in 1902: “On the iron road came a coal black creature. At first it seemed to stand still, but it grew larger and closer with powerful beaks and pussies and came out of the throat enormous steam. And afterwards – "God's Cross!" cried my godfather, "all the houses hang on it!" (...) That doesn't make God stand! I still thought of it. Then the godfather took up the two hands and cried with a desperate voice: ‘Jessas, Jessas, now they’re going right into the hole!’ And already the monster with his hundred wheels was in the depth; the back of the last car shrunk together, only a little light of it was seen for a while, then everything was gone, only the ground drenched, and the smoke rose out of the hole. My pat swept the sweat from the face with the sleeve and stared in the tunnel. (...) in the car were benches, shriek like in a church; and as we looked out to the window – ‘Jessas and Maron!’ my pat cried out, ‘a wall is flying out there!’ Now it became dark, and we saw that an oil lamp was burning on the wall of our crackling stick. Outside at night, we tossed and tossed it as if we were surrounded by huge waterfalls, and once again, dazzling peppers were ringing. We traveled under the earth. The godfather held his hands on the lap and breathed: "In God's name. (...)’ (...) “With the steam truck – it’s the devil!” – So so much for technology. Over a hundred years ago, there was still the fear of entering the tunnel by train that the drum would burst. – Yes, if we were to come to the idea today, for example in rural areas, where no public transport, no train, no bus or anything else is going to make a self-help group – let us call it Uber – to organize with smartphones how we help each other to ensure mobility, then this self-help group called Uber in Austria is currently not possible, but then there is a taxi service like in Vienna in the 1. The district is out because the Austrian trade regulations do not allow you to organize with the neighbor in the country via smartphone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] This was, for example, the idea of origin. The topic of sharing economy is very current – and I have just put forward a proposal that has been postponed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs – how we share goods together. This has a lot to do with it, and this also has a lot to do with Europe, because if you ask yourself whether you are developing an app, you are developing a new product, then you can see that it makes a difference whether you do it in the United States or in Europe, because in the EU this will be a bit complicated. This is actually about creating framework conditions and similar basic conditions together – so let us call it the United States of Europe – so you think in this direction. But there are also issues such as ethical issues. If we talk about self-driving cars – we've heard it several times today – then if the car itself has to avoid and people stand on both sides, someday the problem is that the computer has to make a decision, in which case the risk of damage is less, i.e. whether the car is avoiding to the right or to the left. So these are very difficult questions. There is still a lot to be done in politics. Media competence belongs to me in the field of technological progress. In times when people share everything on Facebook – and I mean, we agree, there is really everything shared, and no one pays attention to what this is for a source, and the competence to judge the different sources has fallen dramatically – we need to stress the subject of media competence again. Today, hatred is already digitized. Now you could say, well, cutting hatred into zeros and ones is something positive, but I don't see it so positively. Thus, hatred is digitized too, and we can only fight against it by strengthening media competence. The issue of unemployment is coming back again and again. There is always talk of unemployment and the labour market, but the word unemployment is somewhat more precise, because the unemployed do not actually exist, the issue is rather: How can the work done in many different areas also be paid accordingly? – These are the issues we need to deal with. This also includes the question of a modern tax system. If we already talk about the robots taking over our work, then we can talk about the robots paying social taxes or taxes. This is the subject which is still under the concept of machine taxation in the logic of the Siebzi- years argued, but I mean one could agree that the robots also pay taxes and social charges, estimated ÖVP! Mr Hanger from the ÖVP spoke about working 24 hours earlier – I do not think so. Or do you mean seven days of work a week? - I don't think so either. I would like to ask for some clarity and therefore to see people in the foreground and not always the technology. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7624	The next item is Mrs Gamon's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7645	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Today we have heard a lot of phrases and also records on this subject. It has always been about Buzzwords, and in particular Mr Klubobmann. Arbitrators have started by stressing individual perhaps unproblematic inventions, which have very probably brought improvements to people's everyday lives – but I mean, that's not what this is all about. The things that everyone immediately feels positive are not at all the problem in this debate. This is about a reform of our attitude, which we have to impose on ourselves – a reform of our attitude towards the new, in principle, in the sense of Star Trek: “to boldly go where no man has gone before.” However, we do not do that in Austria, because technological change means a constant and perhaps accelerated change of existing jobs, of existing processes and also of professional patterns and services that we have in our country. That is what one might sum up under Schumpeter’s “creative destruction, ” for sometimes it hurts too. It sometimes hurts too, but we are often not ready to go this way – “boldly”. Technological progress, which we have already heard today, is as old as humanity itself – but we do not have to believe that this progress is now beginning to destroy massive jobs while in the past this has not been the case. At that time, compared to today, we have experienced just as hard, sharp changes in society as a whole, the whole landscape – or perhaps we have not experienced it ourselves. I would also like to quote something today. Hubert Markl wrote an essay for the book “How Does the New Get Into the World? ” Hubert Markl was a zoologist, science manager, president of the Max Planck Society and also included the founding document for IST Austria. He wrote in this essay: “Only the high value added of innovative performance is it, which releases many new, different employment potentials” – and the effect of these new employment opportunities is largely positive, and there are studies to do so again and again. There are also other positive effects that are brought in the context of this – but of course there are losers in this discussion, which we must not hide. However, when it comes to what we can at all make possible, some legal changes are necessary in Austria in order to make this positive landscape possible for new developments at all. These are questions of education, of debureaucratisation, of flexibility, which we have often heard today – things that enable the economy to handle this massive change in processes at all. Of course, it is also about issues such as venture capital, because without capital one cannot invent these beautiful things that you mentioned today, Mr Schieder. To quote Hubert Markl again: “The free market, free democratic will-building, free public, argumentative debate are the main conditions for such a qualitative performance assessment of the new in competition with the existing.” We also need to think about how we evaluate all that is new – and do we as a whole have the ability to carry out this assessment? The need for this discussion is reflected in a subject that I would like to mention here again and again: CRISPR/Cas9, the so-called Genschere. This method was co-developed in Vienna, and this is about the medically used variant, which is so-called red genetic engineering – not immediately frightening, just because the word Gen is stuck in it. Scientists hope that CRISPR/Cas9, for example, can finally defeat AIDS. It looks like a part of the DNA – i.e. this docking point in the genes that lead to HIV infection in humans – is being identified, and the genetic structure of these people looks just as much like those who happen to be immune to HIV. This can also be a solution for many other diseases that have quite clearly genetic causes: Sickly cell anemia, Chorea Huntington, Blood disease – these diseases may not be a problem for all of us in the future, but there must be the courage to address such a topic openly. German scientists have agreed that the scientific, ethical and legal possibilities of this genomic editing must be openly addressed and a public debate about it must be held – but there is no such thing. The Bioethics Commission in the Federal Chancellor's Office has so far had a meeting to discuss what the rest of the world is doing – we have not yet arrived in Austria. But we can and must also think about it: Not everything that's new is always good. We should and must ask ourselves the question: Is that what we want? – However, we must first come to recognize these things. Finally, a quote from Adolf Loos: “You can only do something new if you can do something better.” – That’s where we have to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7709	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7737	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Technological change as an opportunity for the Austrian site has already been described very thoroughly with all the arguments for and against. From the most modern representations to those of Peter Rosegger, we have already heard all the representations with all the fears and fears that are constantly associated with technology. Mr Leichtfried has said that we have the opportunity either to position ourselves independently or to swim with us. Mr Schieder has been talking about people in the centre, and I think that is exactly the answer that politics has to give. Where does sustainability, when referred to in particular with regard to technological change, remain the key to the abuse of sustainability, because it is not lived that way? Mr Hanger pointed out what a brutal change happens in rural areas and saw the chance of digital marketplace. But here we have the dangers: We have just been able to see the media in the last few weeks how much lost tax revenue Amazon for this state, for this Republic of Austria means because Amazon is dealing with taxes. The danger of digital development is also to be seen from the side of crime, as it is about hackers and all the other possibilities that pose the danger of humanity being pushed back ever further. As far as rural areas are concerned, Mr Hanger, there are research projects in which one is now working to replace the tractor leader or the farmer with a computer – I am not going to let this be improved! When I drive over my fields, I look at the whole thing, then I have the culture in mind, then I have the weed state and the fertiliser state in my eye and observe everything – and I am convinced that there are scientists who say that the robot can do it better than man. If we let ourselves be pushed back so far, we will be the great losers of this development, that must be absolutely clear. I would like to talk about a very concrete development: Only about two weeks ago I mentioned Lenzing AG as a model example, as a model location in our district, as an industrial location, where really innovative research is being conducted. If we read the paper now, we unfortunately have to find that Lenzing AG is expected to build the new plant with €265 million of investment in Alabama. There are not only 165 jobs created, but if we look at the total, the subcontractors and all the subcontractors, we have to count this number at least three times. Col. Minzig, if you say that the companies follow their markets, then we are exactly with this predatory capitalism, which I always blame you for in the discussions about CETA and TTIP. If we sacrifice all the independent, all the ability and knowledge at the altar of globalisation, then we are dead as a location – we must be clear, we cannot speak beautifully! We are very much in demand here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to give a simple example of an industrial company where today only one can see a central warehouse, a central logistics, no more people. Where 14 employees used to be, the trucks are now operated with robots, there is no human being anymore. We are increasingly discussing Burnout – I am just talking about “Dr. As a medical advisor, Google reads – because humanity is increasingly being pushed out of the businesses. The reason is that the dividend and the yield of this predator capitalism do not bear humanity and no sustainability, but only numbers and profits, profits on the back of humans. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Mr Katzian, this is the subject. There were just 2 500 jobs created in Styria in the last few years. Mr President, it is a pity that you do not understand the chance: Whoever pays the wages and who demands them – that's the big difference, my dear. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Without businesses, without a successful economic location, it is not possible. That's the very decisive thing: This economic location Austria has to be made a showcase location for Europe, for the whole world. I am thinking in particular of food, I am thinking especially of the areas of sustainable energy sovereignty and food sovereignty. I think we would have such a huge market that we would not have to hit our skulls on the Group market, but we could position ourselves there in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7818	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7839	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have the current hour on the topic “Technological change as an opportunity for the location Austria”. Research, innovation and technology are the driving forces in terms of economic growth in terms of competitiveness in terms of employment. Research and development are constantly changing our lives, such as broadband Internet. Innovative solutions help us to master the future and, most importantly and urgently necessary, create new jobs in order to create prosperity, because every unemployed person is one too much – we have heard that, so it is. But we must also ensure that these salaries and wages are such that the people who take up these new occupations can also live on them. Otherwise, the state-of-the-art profession will not benefit us if people can't live there. I mean, quite importantly, it is very important, Minister Leichtfried, for the state to create framework conditions for Austria to play in this league. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7870	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. [[10:34:03]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e7891	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8069	I also say that the Eleventh Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8090	The Club Team Stronach has according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 11075/J by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management concerning ‘Austrian products instead of environmentally and health-damaging palm oil from the rainforest’. [[The urgent request does not have the number 11075/J, but the number 11076/J. See correction by President Kopf, p. 74.]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8114	I would also like to say that Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill has requested that the Foreign Policy Committee report on the 1934/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Windbüchler-Sushill, colleagues on the financing of violent conflicts in the procurement of raw materials, prohibit a period of 30 years. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8135	The debate on points 1 to 7, 8 to 11, 12 to 22, 28 and 29, 30 and 31 as well as 34 and 35 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8160	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 128, FPÖ 119, Green 100 and NEOS and STRONACH per 52 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 26 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just outlined. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:37:19]] 1. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 1917/A by Mr Anton Heinzl, Mr Andreas Ottenschlager, Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Mag. Helene Jarmer, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1996 Chance Traffic Act (1418 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1347, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Road Law 1971 (1420 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1353, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on the Statistics on Road Traffic Accidents with Personal Damage (Road Traffic Accident Statistics Act) and amending the Federal Road Law 1971 (1421 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 1059/A(E) by Georg Willi, colleagues, on the legal basis for transport statistics (1422b) 5. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1356, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the road transport regulations in 1960 (28. StVO-Novelle (1423 a.k.a.) 6. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1358, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the driving licence law (18. FSG-Novelle (1424 e.g.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8286	We come to points 1 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are reports from the Transport Committee. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Willi is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8316	Madam President. Mr. Leichtfried! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall now try to move through seven agenda items at the pace of the move. I'll start with the 1st. The item on the agenda is about the Event Law. It is good that there is a unanimous request to amend this law in such a way that there is now a transport obligation for assistance dogs, which is a correct approach. So far, people who have used such a dog that can be fed without a muzzle and without a leash have often been returned. show. This was quite a deterioration in their quality of life in the use of public transport. On the item on the agenda 2, the Federal Roads Act, my colleague Harald Walser will speak. I now come to the Federal Law on statistics on road accidents with personal injury. Mr Minister, you know that the Government Convention provides that there should be a legal basis for all transport statistics. This law covers only a part of what the government has actually made up. It's too little for us. You said it was important to you that you at least prefer a part – it's nice that something goes on, but after three years of red and black government, it would be time to regulate all traffic statistics, not just those with road traffic damage. What does not taste to us is the short review period of only 11 days, which has also been strongly criticised in the review, because it also concerns very essential data protection issues. We also criticise the fact that this statistical evaluation, which is about high competence in data protection, is not necessarily based on Statistics Austria, but rather that it is possible to write out these statistical services and to take them out of the market most cheap. This is contrary to what the EU proposes, namely to pool statistics in a very competent place. This is where we have the statistics Austria and should therefore make this imperative with this – therefore no consent from us. They're changing the road traffic regulations. – There are a few points that we do support, but also some that just don’t work. There is an inconspicuous exception from the weekend ban for lights and beschalers, where we Greens ask ourselves: Which lobbyist group was there so successfully at work that this is coming?, but even more important, there is another easing of the advertising ban. You, Mr. Minister, have come up with the announcement: I want zero traffic kill. If you want zero traffic fatality – admittedly: a high goal – you have to do everything to make roads safe. And with the easing of the advertising ban, it is more possible to set up billboards in the street room, for example in elections. It is up to the district board to assess when an advertising board is at risk of traffic, and there will be very different interpretations. I can remember electoral struggles where there were unfortunately dead, even a dead child in this case, because this one was behind an advertising panel and then stepped out on the street. The driver didn't see the child and passed it. These are very tragic consequences, and we think that we can only face another easing of the ban on advertising, which only the advertising industry wants. Next point, driving licence law new: There are many good points, so we demand a separate vote – the desire is brought in – but there is one point where we do not go, and that is the possibility of the alcolock. When I learned that you were going to introduce this, I thought you could see if that's what's going to happen. Only the review of the alcolock has shown that there are many major questions behind this question. The alcolock is something similar to the footbands, it is almost a relief in the withdrawal of the driver's license: After half the time that a drunk driver was deprived of the driver's license, he can, if he has the appropriate money and has the alcolock installed, drive the car back with Alkolock before. Now, all relevant studies have shown that an alcolocker's relapsing probability is exactly the same, whether it uses an alcolock or not – with one exception: if there is a very good and concentrated traffic psychological care for these alcohol-influenced car drivers. And you don't see this well-founded psychological care of the alksünder. That is, if you are concerned about traffic safety, if it is your concern that you want to bring back people who have been driven under alcohol influence at the wheel and so many others are at risk, to the path of virtue, then you have to provide appropriate good traffic psychological care – and that is exactly what is missing. Therefore, many professionals say that what Austria is doing is quite nice, but it does not do in practice. The one who can afford the alcolock, he can drive again earlier, and the other must wait. – We have no understanding of this with a minister who wrote traffic safety at the top of his agenda. I come to the last point: This is about Italy's massive increase in rail tolls in cross-border rail transport by up to 130 percent. They can still do so because they have not yet implemented an EU policy that Austria has already implemented. We are currently building billions of euro expensive railway tunnels to bring goods and people to the railways, but in view of this massive increase in rail tolls in cross-border traffic, the ÖBB says, the Deutsche Bahn and other railways say, we do not know whether we can still afford cross-border rail transport to Italy – or we have to go up with the prices so much fewer people are travelling train. That cannot be it, and I therefore demand that you, Mr Minister, take advantage of all political and legal possibilities to avoid it. We cannot put billions into the railways, and then the Italians are turning off these trains with their railway toad policy! And you want to reject this request by a majority in the House?- Oh, my God! – For this we lack any understanding. I am once again advocating the fact that we are working on Italy to do everything we can to bring to the rails also with an intelligent and good rail toll policy. It is up to you to act here, and I hope that Parliament will support this approach at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8396	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8417	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a great pleasure, on behalf of Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger, to welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the professional school 7 from Linz here in the house. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the legislative initiative to be adopted today, I believe that it is possible to set up a whole package for greater road safety. First: For many people, the moped driver's license is the entry into motorized individual traffic, so it is important that this training takes place at a truly high level. The reform to be decided on today will also ensure this. Secondly, For young drivers, the pilot license has proved to be an important contribution to the reduction of accident rates. The sampling period is now extended from two to three years in order to further enhance this positive effect. Now to the third: It is also very positive that future radar images can be used to control, for example, the belt laying obligation, the mobile phone ban, the helmet requirement, child protection and so on, or to prevent violations of it. This is truly useful because traffic safety needs both: on the one hand, awareness raising and on the other hand effective control. Fourth: The alcolocks are a measure of greater control and awareness-building. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, if they want to do so, Alkolenkers will be able to return to their own car after half the time of departure, but with Alkolock and thus with guaranteed 0.0 Promille, twice as long as the rest of the time of withdrawal, but at least for six months. An example: A fine of € 1,200 to €4,000 and a driver's license withdrawal of at least four months will be due in case of alcoholisation of 1.2 to 1.6 permill. With Alkolock this withdrawal is reduced to two months, after which the handlebar must have installed the alcohol roadblock for six months and of course only with this car. The cost of this must, of course, be borne by the handlebar itself. That will help, and I am convinced, especially those who depend on the car professionally. You have to pay in total more, but on the other hand you can go to work again earlier, but with guaranteed 0.0 Promille, with your own car. Fifth point: With the introduction of a green label for electric cars, it has succeeded in creating an important basis for promoting electromobility. Green markings allow municipalities to implement their own incentives to promote electromobility, such as the exception of maintenance and parking bans, the operation of bus tracks and so on, easily and without great administrative effort. Ladies and gentlemen, the sixth point: Finally, I would like to express my express thanks to all the political groups here in the House for the constructive cooperation in connection with the innovation of the Opportunity Law. As has been shown, in the past there have been problems with the taking of assistance dogs in taxis and so on. In order to address this abuse, it is clarified: For assistance dogs, transport obligations apply, as is the case in regular buses for a long time. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this novel makes a direct contribution to improving the lives of people with special needs in everyday life. In particular, I would like to thank our spokesperson for people with special needs, Member Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, who has re-rolled this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8481	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8503	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mr. Minister, you have been in the Committee more often than not, but also in the plenary session. Its central objective, namely to reduce the number of fatalities to zero, is to communicate. They also have full support from us NEOS so that we can achieve this objective together. But the way there is not only a very long subject matter, but it is also stylistic in politics to do a lot. I have the feeling that in transport and in infrastructure policy we will never agree on investment, but that in terms of content we will be able to do so. I think it would be a good idea if we were to work together further than we are at present. I'd just like to pick it up very briefly: We had meetings with infrastructure ministers, Stöger, during which we were invited as opposition also in the ministry to maintain an exchange of content. We did not receive such an invitation as an opposition from you so far. Even a very short-term transport minister has Klug when it comes to a request that was opposed to it, he has taken quite a look at the telephone listener in order to maintain an exchange of views. Nothing of this kind has happened from your side! At the same time, however, the laws you submit here are relatively sloppy and presented at a very high speed, for example with a review period of 11 days. You can think about what actually comes in 11 days of feedback. This happened, for example, in connection with the alcolocks. We also had to make corrections during the committee meeting because the law did not comply with what was proposed. On questions I also had – it was quite specific about when a citizen could apply for an alcolock and when – as a Member of Parliament, we had once again had the last version, because changes have been made so quickly. In fact, the bill for the law enforcement carried out by your place of business – even if it was the task of Parliament – is not enough. This has asked us how we vote: Do we go here and say that there is a measure that, I believe, can actually protect human lives by allowing people who are under alcohol influence or are also “renewal offenders” – under quotation marks – to be built on a voluntary basis of this alcolock, but still have a roadblock, or do we vote against it because it is simply a construction site – in addition, combined with the road traffic regulations, where you have significantly expanded the penal canon, namely that if you have a photo recording on a section control, you can also be punished for other traffic offences in the future as well as for the extra-speed driving because of which you have actually been photographed? This is always a gratification, namely between the personal freedoms from my point of view – we are going in a direction where we tend to have more supervision – and the question: Do we actually save life with that? My personal assessment is that you have just brought the grate hike towards a half full rather than half empty glass and we will vote this time with a lot of abdominal pain for the alcolock, but – and I would like to share this with you here – I expect a call from the government for the entire opposition from January and more cooperation. In the future, we will no longer be able to contribute to such laws, even in the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8545	The next speaker is Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8566	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let me start with the 6th. Class from the BG8, the Piaristengymnasium from Josefstadt, very warmly welcome us to the Hohe Haus! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have already talked a lot about the technological change in which we are in the middle of it. Today, we will also be able to In the creation of the appropriate legal framework, for example for a new drive technology, e.g. electric mobility. Mr Heinzlhat has already mentioned that we are creating an additional registration plate with which we are particularly marking cars powered by electric power. What's that supposed to do? – This simply gives us the opportunity to create certain privileges for this drive technology, for example, that the municipalities can open bus tracks, give corresponding parking permits et cetera, et cetera, which is very useful measures by which we give this technology a boost. You know that the Federal Minister, together with the Minister for the Environment, has also attached a package of measures. This is about financial support, but it is also – and I believe this is another very crucial point – about improving and intensifying the charging infrastructure so that this technology also becomes attractive. Moreover – and that is also said at this point – it is of course not yet final that electric mobility is the only alternative drive technology. There will also be others, and at the end of the day, the market will also decide what the whole thing looks like in 20, 30 years. A second essential issue, Mr. Federal Minister – and here you have our full support – is the subject of transport safety. When you took office or shortly thereafter – and I was a little skeptical at the beginning – you said that your goal is that there should be no more traffic deaths in Austria. This is, of course, a high goal, and you have also done very well. You said: Given every single fate in every congregation, in every family where such tragedies occur, it would not be explained if we said that we do not have this goal. That is why I can now also support this good conscience, although we know it will be a long way, and that we can do it, we may not experience in this function anymore, but, as I said, the goal is definitely supportive. In this context too, a number of measures are being taken today, such as the extension of the pilot licence which has proved successful for young people. It is extended from two to three years. This should not be punishment, but rather we want to raise awareness of it, for example, as regards tax distractions. I think, together with the alcohol – the creation of the possibility of the alcolock has already been explained that I do not need to repeat that – the distraction on the wheel is caused mainly by the mobile phone dangerous situations. So I don't mean phone calls explicitly, but really the ins phone-view-and-the-blick-way-of-the-road-directions. This is one of the main causes of accidents, and we must continue to work towards countering them, and these are some points. To conclude, I have already mentioned the alcolock: Mr Federal Minister, I can assure you that we will support you in these measures – other measures to which I am going to comment – in the next item on the agenda – 100%: in measures to increase road safety, but also in the measures to force electric mobility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8627	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8648	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Right at the beginning in all the short: We have a number of laws here on government documents, which are very positive: For example, the aid dog rule, which can be understood by everyone, is a reasonable thing. Also, the fact that police officers now no longer have to have their own authority regarding § 5, alcohol controls, but that this is regulated throughout the country is a reasonable thing – to which we will certainly agree – but there is also something that causes me a little bit. Mr Minister, you know from the Committee: As far as the Alkopops are concerned, that was a difficult decision for me. Of course, these alcolocks – sorry, not alcopops, but Alkolocks – are positive about the idea, because it is about the fact that someone who has a driver's license and is a professional driver from me should not lose his job, but thus have the opportunity to continue to exercise the job – with a certain investment and also on condition that he has 0.0 Promille alcohol in the blood, which is certainly an educational measure – which is bothering me, is that it is only after half the time of the driver's license withdrawal. In fact, if you have a six-month withdrawal, you are only allowed to install the alcolock after three months. And in my opinion, this is the problem, because in this time, of course, one has already lost his job as a professional driver. In my opinion, this is not quite mature, and that is why we cannot accept this bill. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Another issue that always moves me very much – you heard it from me a month ago from this speaker’s desk – concerns the truck bans on heavy traffic on two-track sections of the motorway I have repeatedly requested. Anyone who has been on the road once by car, on which many trucks are on the road, on which there is a lot of traffic, knows this situation: the eternally long truck colony. And then you try to pass the overpass trail, and then a truck pulls out, travels 1 to 2 km/h faster than the rest of the column, and you drive 10 to 12 kilometers after him – always drive, brake, limit the speed, push back, front is pushed. At the top of the bridge is the police with the distance measurement, and then you get beautiful greetings from the county headquarters. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] This is always a problem, because if you leave too much distance, the next truck will drive into the gap. And that's the problem, Minister. I have also mentioned this here, and at the last meeting I have put forward the proposal to solve it in such a way that the overhead controllers, which we already have in many areas and which can also be installed in some ways, are not only used for the speed indicator of this unscrupulous air hundred, but also when a large traffic volume is used to create a temporary ban on trucks. You have noticed this, you have also said it in the Committee, and I announced to you a month ago that I will make a request for it, because it is also a bit about copyright, and of course we in politics also live on successes. The Stronach team often has good ideas, which we then apply for, and then they are not decided or amended by the government. In this respect, I have experienced something in the last Committee on the Interior. If you remember: I have repeatedly demanded that the police get under-privileged vests for their security, which is always rejected here. And in the last Committee on the Interior, one of the ÖVPs has come to the idea that I should withdraw my request because the Minister of the Interior now intends to accept and implement this request, I should withdraw it, unless it is done anyway. [[Abg. Obernoster: Go, hurry! It's not true at all!]] There's such a nice advertisement, you know it: “Who invented it?” – I would like to document with a motion for a resolution that I will now make immediately that this is the idea of the Stronach team, which I hope will soon be implemented by the Federal Government. You can then agree to this, I would like to invite you to do so because it is a good idea – you have said that too, Minister. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this is a reasonable matter, Minister; You recorded it, too. And it is, I think, just right and cheap that the copyright of the Stronach team is also being held here. I would be pleased if you would agree to this request in the sense of road safety and reason. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8711	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8765	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8786	Mr President. Minister! Appreciate spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! High house! My speech refers to the 28th century. StVO-Novelle, and I am pleased to note – at least with regard to this novel – that the so often conjured will to reduce the administrative burden not only remains lip commitment, but is actually carried out. The withdrawal of the special authorization for the carrying out of alcomat investigations by federal police institutions actually brings significant administrative and cost savings. It is no longer necessary to allow every single policeman or police officer to print extra 66-page documents in DIN A6 format. It is also no longer necessary that all district leaders who are responsible sign these documents extra and so on, because the federal training in SIAK ensures that our police officers are actually trained in the handling of alcomates and alcohol precursors. Of particular interest, however, are those innovations aimed at raising road safety, because they are positive on the one hand, but on the other hand they are also problematic. For some years now, it has been possible to detect speed crossings or compliance with the safety distance or red light crossings with image-processing technical devices. So far, it has always been possible to refer such transgressions to the handlebar so that it could be punished, but other persons who, for example, were recognizable on the image material and who obviously also committed a violation could not and should not be interested. This is also in line with data protection. Now we are creating a new paragraph, the § 98g of the StVO, with which a significant change occurs. On the one hand, in addition to the previous traffic offences, other serious offences affecting road safety may also be detected. This is the case, for example, of telephone calls without a means of communication, the unauthorised transport of persons, the non-use of safety belts, the violation of child transport regulations, the non-imposition of children. the helmet or a transport of several persons by motorcycle or by motorcycle. Now it is true that, in terms of data protection, if only the handlebar itself is concerned, everything remains with the elderly; it is still the other people to be unknowable. However, the situation is different, even if these persons have clearly placed so-called traffic evasions, which are valued, on the image material, for example, when a lady is sitting on the passenger seat, which is not strapped; then she also does not have to be made unrecognizable, and a criminal proceedings can also be initiated against them. On the other hand, what happens if, for example, the image material shows that the handlebar does not hold the steering wheel with both hands or has the feet on the dashboard, as can be seen several times with truck drivers? May these then be punished? Or can only the taxattitudes listed be pursued? – So we see that there is a wealth of problems: What about data protection? What about the right to anonymity of third parties, to a fair procedure? Or how can one possibly put an end to such a procedure? I'll give you an example. I said earlier: A lady is sitting on the passenger seat, she's not strapped; that's obvious. But what opportunities does the authority now have to prosecute this lady in administrative terms? – With reference to the holder of the licence, there is the possibility that he may be asked to announce who at any given time has steered the particular vehicle – well, then we know –; however, it is not permissible and not intended to force the handlebar to inform who is sitting on the passenger seat. This will not be possible, and this would also contradict any fair procedure. The same applies also if it is a minor: There is no obligation of the handlebar to notify. There is a maximum obligation to draw the adult's attention to catching up. Therefore, because of the lack of research opportunities, it will in most cases not be possible for the authority to investigate the person who has also committed a traffic violation. From many years of practice, I conclude that the legislator wants more and more than the authority can then implement, and that seems to be the case in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8845	Now Mr. Federal Minister Mag has himself. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8866	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to take the opportunity to thank you. When I first said that the goal must be to stop having road fatalities in Austria, a very intense debate about this statement has emerged as to whether this would be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, you have shown me today that this objective is supported by you, and I think it is also the only legitimate transport policy objective on this issue. It cannot be relativized. Dead can't be relativized, ladies and gentlemen. Those who do this should consider whether they are in the right place in transport policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is clear that the way there is a long path, a difficult path, an intensive path, and that this project can only be carried forward in stages. That is why we have jointly decided to set up a transport safety package that will be a first big step in this direction – a first big step, but certainly not the last step – and a package that you must of course always question and evaluate. I take the criticism that came from you in part very seriously and think, you have to keep looking at what you can improve and how you can improve it. But I believe that what we have presented is a very good answer to the situation. The situation is 479 road fatalities last year, and this requires a very intense response. The whole package is divided into several parts that work and intertwine, and I think this cooperation is also a very important and good one. Mr Willi referred to the road accident statistics law. – Yes, it is true that we are making progress. It is true that, for the first time, we can also link the accident data with the injury data in order to be able to handle it clearly. And it's also right that we give ourselves the opportunity to choose the best for this work. I believe that this is something that can also be claimed, and if Statistics Austria is the best, then it will also be commissioned, ladies and gentlemen. However, it is also about looking at where the risk potentials are particularly high. It has become relatively clear that there is a very high risk potential for young people, so we are extending the protection framework of the pilot licence from two to three years, i.e. they are longer in this protected area. It has been seen that when the test driver's licence is introduced in this target group, the accident figures have fallen very much, and that will continue to be the case. We are dealing with the subject of distraction, it has been discussed more often. With the photo proof, it will now be possible to determine, even in the case of speed crossings, whether other transgressions have occurred, how to make phone calls and similar things. And we're dealing with alcohol in road traffic. The fact is that every year the 26 000 driving licences are reduced for alcoholization. The estimates that exist point in the direction that, however, the 4,000 of these people continue to drive and continue to drive alcoholised; and only the number of these with the help of the alcolocks, ladies and gentlemen, means less alcoholized on the road, means safe roads in Austria. I also think that this is a goal that we should strive for together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The overall package is for you to vote. I think it's a good package. I think there are also issues to be discussed. That is why we have decided to test the alcolocks for a test phase of five years. We will see what results we achieve. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the criticism that exists, in any case seriously; only one thing I would like to say at the end: In Austria, no one is forced to drive alcoholically, and that is why it is true what we are doing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8933	Mr Walser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e8957	Mr President. Minister! High house! From our point of view, a little bit has gone down in this discussion so far, a very central point: the novelle of the Federal Road Law. At the heart of the issue is the cost-effectiveness of construction measures for motorways, for highways, and as in the past in the so-called road-fixing process, this is to be examined internally by ASFINAG itself, namely the commercial component, and on the other hand by your ministry, Mr. Minister, the national economic component. The aim is to have a procedural acceleration. We would certainly support that. It is less positive that from our point of view there are very serious shortcomings, namely what happens to the rights of participation, what the rights of those concerned come from such procedures. Mr. Georg Willi has written you an expertise about this already six months ago: ten pages that explain in detail why we think this novelle is very problematic. Unfortunately, the law does not find any of these objections, as does other objections that have come, for example from the Court of Auditors, which simply and simply finds that large parts of these amendments are unconstitutional. To give some examples – and I believe that it is enough to take common sense to the standard –: The fact that the owner is at the same time an approval authority cannot be. They themselves know that parts, such as the Bundesstraßen-Lammimsschutzverordnung, are already in front of the Constitutional Court. This is where we decide a law that will also be safe to land before the Constitutional Court. We do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, how to accept such a law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are some other problematic points inside, such as the so-called – already the word is suspicious – discharge privilege in the environmental impact assessment. There are then special immission protection rules. There is a so-called guaranteed right to continue operations, i.e. even in the case of decisions of the Administrative Court, for example, this can be continued. All of this is very, very problematic. From the point of view of Vorarlberg, let me add another aspect, because you are able, by this law, to build a bridge to a highly controversial project, namely the so-called S 18, the Lake Constance Highway. That's where you want to make construction easier. I say it to you as clearly as I think it must be said: This is a circumvention of all the rules that we have discussed in this context so far. The project is ancient. We've been discussing this for almost 40 years. We have a trail with the S 18 which, I believe, has been presented in 1996 and has been discussed since then. And this project, ladies and gentlemen, is not, as is stated, already in the target curve, because there are still very, very big problems. The two lines – both – pass through a swamp area. The cost of forecasting is up to one billion euros. I know you have lower estimates, but you've had to correct them all the time in recent years. All of this cannot be accepted by our side, Minister. It's an appeal to the reason we have to make here. Instead of resolving mistakes in a timely manner, ensuring greater transparency, putting in place fundamental rights-compliant measures and making conditions, we have a law here that – and I tell you clearly – is unconstitutional. We cannot therefore understand how the colleagues can agree to this Federal Road Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9017	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9038	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I promised my dear colleague: On behalf of Andrea Gessl-Ranftlföcht I would like to welcome the visitors to the gallery from Obersteiermark, Jüdenburg, in the Hohe Haus – also from my side. [[General condolences.]] Allow for up-to-dateity I would like to congratulate you once again once again on the press conference yesterday, Mr Federal Minister, that you continue along the way in the context of the best bidder principle in the public sector. They know it was a concern of social democracy, it was an initiative of social democracy and, in particular, of trade union colleagues, that the Ministry of Transport actively took a lead in where policy can shape, namely in public procurement – ÖBB, ASFINAG. We are talking about 1 billion € in the area of ASFINAG. Not the cheapest draws, but the best draws. Thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I will now come to the traffic safety package, to the Alcolocks. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure it is a pilot project. We put it for five years; and, Mr Willi, contrary to your position: I don't know if we're going to achieve the goal. At the very top of the list, the Federal Minister has carried it out in his opinion. If you follow the experts from the KFV, they expect a significant reduction in the number of road fatalities, a significant reduction in the number of accidents, including serious accidents. In this respect, one should give a part of the project a chance to achieve transport safety – we will evaluate it, the Federal Minister has promised it. Every traffic death – the number has unfortunately increased again – is one too much. If we are setting up a project with which we have a chance to restore road safety on Austria's roads, we should also give the project a chance. We therefore very much support it on the part of Social Democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9093	Mr Doppler came to speak as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9114	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring to the government template for a better statistical collection of traffic accidents with personal injury. Mr Minister, you mentioned it: 479 traffic deaths last year, that's about 479 too much. And I'll give you perfectly right if you say the goal must be zero traffic fatality. This law establishes a uniform legal basis for the compilation and publication of statistics on road accidents involving personal injury on public roads. The Minister of Transport should be responsible for this in the future, which is a completely correct and important approach. The proposed law lays down the nature of the data to be collected and also contains rules on data security, quality assurance. It is very important for the future that the different statistics are merged, because with the current We will not yet have the goal of completely preventing road accidents and deaths if possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9153	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9175	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am allowed to greet the students of Vöcklabruck Federal Gymnasium and her professor, Rill, here among our listeners. Welcome to our High House! [[General condolences.]] I too would like to comment in principle on the decision-making of the law on a database of statistics on road accidents. It is extremely necessary that we create a corresponding legal basis here and that Statistics Austria is likely to collect, collect and then make available to the countries through the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs and BMVIT. This will enable countries to conduct accident research, identify accident cases on the basis of this accident research, and then further elucidate them accordingly with structural measures. This is an important measure in terms of increasing road safety. Just remember that in the 1970s we had around 1,700 traffic deaths every year. We know, of course, that many legislative measures have contributed to this, such as the pilot's license and other measures, that it has been possible to reduce this number. Of course, technical improvements in the automotive industry have also contributed a significant part to this. If we have recorded around 402 traffic deaths up to this day in this year, that is less than the 450 to be complained of in the previous year at that time. However, I am also in favour of the Federal Minister, who has already stated in the Committee that: Every traffic death is too much. Therefore, we must oppose this on a legal basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9214	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9235	Mr President. Federal Minister! I'm talking to the TOP 5 and 6. Measures to reduce administrative burden should in principle be supported. Alcohol checks carried out by executive officials on the basis of a general legal authorisation shall be problematic and rejected. In order to increase road safety, it would be more useful to invest in drug testing equipment as well. In principle, billboards on traffic control devices should be rejected, as they may lead to misinterpretations or disregard of the actual control systems, which would be beneficial to anything other than road safety. On the other hand, the extension of the catalogue of the test driver's license by the offence of using a mobile phone on the tax is useful and supportive. With regard to the increase in the sampling time from two to three years, it should be applied that not only the duration of the test period, but also the kilometre performance and therefore the driving practice are important. This should be demonstrated in comparison to the mileage of the L17 training. The driving licence of Class B shall be valid for driving a motor vehicle up to a total weight of 3 500 kg. In the case of electric vehicles, this limit should now be increased to 4 250 kilos. The question of driving practice and additional training is also raised here, because a heavier car also requires a changed driving behaviour, which is particularly true for electric motor vehicles. This point is therefore to be revised from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9272	The next item is the speech by Mr Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9293	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to join my previous speakers, in that it is really important that we finally update these traffic accident statistics, that we collect these data, that we network and, above all, evaluate these data. There is no question that all of us are in favour of reducing the number of fatalities and victims of accidents in road transport, and it is therefore important to cut these data and draw the corresponding consequences. That is why there is also a clear yes by us liberals to this proposal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I would like to devote myself to a second subject area, and these are so-called alcolocks that have already been discussed several times. Mr. Federal Minister, you know that the Freedom Party was the first party to support your move and that we voted in favour of implementing it. Why did we do that? – Because we have seen this as a socially important measure, because a driving licence withdrawal – and anyone can make a mistake – can and should not cause one to lose the job that the family suffers and one falls into poverty traps. That is why we said at the time that it is a good excuse for you, Minister of State. Just, what happened in the meantime? . We have seen that exactly this social policy component, which you have initially brought into the meeting, has not been taken into consideration. Why do I say that? – We heard it before, these alcolocks can only be used from a minimum driver's license withdrawal period of four months and then at the earliest after two months. Federal Minister! If I can't get to work for two months – that's a topic especially in rural areas – then this measure is worthless because I've already lost the job. If I have to wait two months until I can use the alcolock, then even the annual holiday is not enough for me to bridge this time. That means it's just not practical and goes beyond the original sense of the thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I would also like to thank you for writing me an extra letter explaining your planned measures. But what was not discussed before was that the use of the alcolock leads to the overall extension of the penalty. If I have a four-month withdrawal period, I can only use the alcolock after two months. That is to say, the duration of the measure is extended to a total of six months – even that goes completely beyond the meaning of the matter. The next problem that arises is the cost factor. 1 600 € approximately must be applied for the installation of the alcolock. There, too, the question must be asked: Is this financial?, and above all: Is that also practical? Another question: The following shall be added to the list: What if I want to go with another car?, and so on and so on. So, it doesn't make things any easier. Mr Federal Minister, the consideration, your approach was basically good, the implementation is unfortunately bad of God, so we must refuse our consent here. Another thing is the extension of the test driver's licence. We talked earlier about the need for these traffic statistics to be a source of danger in order to analyse traffic accidents and finally to have really good data material from which they can be affected. That's why I don't understand that you can get out of a arbitrary action and say: We need to extend the pilot license from two to three years, because we believe that makes sense. Federal Minister! Let us wait until these statistics are collected until these statistics are compiled accordingly and, above all, until they are analysed. And if we draw the conclusion that it is necessary and sensible to extend the pilot's license from two to three years, then we can also talk in a parliamentary way about it – but until then, Federal Minister, we will not be able to agree to a pre-conception of our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9363	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9385	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I too can warmly welcome students here, namely those of the school centre Eybnerstraße in St. Pölten. [[General condolences.]] Agenda item 3 implements a government programme project dealing with a federal law on statistics on road accidents with personal injury. A number of points have already been raised by my previous speakers. The fact is, we're on the 1st. January 2016 to 11. ==References====External links== Every traffic death is too much. Our common objective must be to make road transport safer. Ladies and gentlemen! There are already statistics on road fatalities. However, with today's decision-making, we are expanding the scope of road traffic accident statistics. This law will make it possible to include the injured persons in the statistics to the fatally ill persons. As a innovation, not only data from the Federal Roads will be included in the statistics, but also the road fatalities and injuries from the entire Austrian road network. Statistics count, deliver facts, but do not show quite the reality, and therefore it is particularly important that we also allow accident deep research with this new legal regulation in order to ensure real scientific depth research here. For the first time, the relevant tasks of the BMVIT and the Federal Ministry of the Interior are clearly regulated. The BMI is responsible for the collection and quality assurance of accident data, BMVIT for the compilation of statistics and publication. This innovation also explicitly regulates data protection, as well as the transfer of data to the federal states, which has already been addressed today. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to awareness-raising, legislative measures and controls, transport safety work is of central importance. It is also new to the high quality scientific accident analysis, which leads to follow-up measures and so on. will lead to the reduction of accidents. However, our common objective must be to avoid accidents so that they do not have to be included in the statistics at all. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9433	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9454	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address another issue that is included in this agenda, namely the amendment to the Federal Roads Act, which concerns our Bundesautobahnen and Bundesschnellstraßen and contains the corresponding regulations. It is a question of revoking a double track, which has already been mentioned, to simplify the audit of economic efficiency, as it has been. Thus far, the economic tests in the construction of new federal roads or sub-sections were partly located at the administrative level in the procedure of the Ministry of Transport, but also at the private legal level of the ASFINAG. In the future, this economic review will be carried out in the run-up to the application in the context of the private economic application. The Federal Minister's mandate will ensure that in the future the focus of the audit will be on the ASFINAG and the national or global audit at the Ministry of Transport. At the same time, however, it is also clear that the rights of the public are not affected. This leads to a process acceleration, clear rules on responsibilities and fewer double-tracks. I cannot understand the criticism of the Greens that there is therefore a wrong situation and the privileges of the Federal Road Administration. Another point in this novel is that the ASFINAG as a project promoter can be applied in the approval decision measures of the object-side noise protection to buildings of neighbors. By expressly or in fact refusing their consent, neighbors were able to prevent ASFINAG from fulfilling this requirement. In the future, the measures required in the notice will be deemed to be fulfilled even if they only try to implement ASFINAG. However – and this is also important – the right of neighbours to set up such a measure remains valid for three years from the date of the release of traffic. Mr Walser, one word on Lake Constance: This project, according to my knowledge, is an important project for the Vorarlberg population, and I also know that the foundations for this project were created by all parties represented in the Vorarlberger Landtag, i.e. also with the agreement of the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen, finally back to the beginning of my remarks: All of us call for the red tape to be reduced, and we call for the elimination of double-tracks, because it can save costs and thus also means of taxation. We can make a small contribution to this today. Take advantage of this opportunity! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9495	Before I speak to the honourable Member Deimek, I make a small correction to a notice made at the beginning of the meeting: The urgent question put this morning by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues and colleagues, for technical reasons, does not bear the number 11075/J, but the number 11076/J. Mr Deimek. - Please. [[Interlocutory call towards the Bureau of the Abg. reached at the speaker's desk. Deimek.]] – Not that we will discuss the wrong thing afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9527	Mr President. Federal Minister! I take out two points for my speech today, which seem quite important to me, even if they may perish in the abundance of the agendas. Some time ago, we created a directive that assistance dogs must of course be taken in the taxis. But some taxi drivers are different, namely: Dogs have nothing to look for in my car, they're dirty! or: I have a dog allergy! – or whatever is objected to. This may be true in the individual case, only: It follows from this that the legal standard no longer applies and that one therefore assists dogs and above all – and that is what it is all about! – the people concerned simply leave behind, this is not the case in our Republic. That is why I am very glad that, in addition to all the organizations, the public prosecutors and, finally, the ministry and legislators also worked on it and made the situation clear as follows: The people who need assistance dogs must be taken with them clearly! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Keck.]] It remains, of course, if there are already drivers who cannot befriend them to leave the radio stations to leave one ride or another, but in principle this kind of accessibility is to be produced. The second point I would like to deal with is the already mentioned Federal Road Law, in which the Greens criticised, there would be a wrong situation. An example of this, even if it does not apply to a hundred percent by law: The Westring in Upper Austria is a model example of how one can unnecessarily lengthen a transport project for a city and the surrounding region. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From a planned beginning of 2017 we can only dream again, one is now at 2018. – that on the subject of misrepresentation or the unfair assessment of the interests of an abrasives. As regards noise protection: If the ASFINAG or the road operator or operator takes appropriate measures to protect the trailers, it is also necessary to provide for legislation that, if appropriate measures are proposed, a relinquishing can be no reason to delay the whole process. Therefore, there is our absolute agreement on both things and also on the other points to be debated. To the driving licence law, which has also been mentioned, just one comment: We were still in the last minutes, I must say now that we have a competent position – and I would ask you, Minister of State Lightfried, and your lawyers in the ministry to examine this – that it should be possible to avoid the test driver's license by means of a trick, which is to return the test driver's license once you have it, in order to obtain a new driver's license after some time in another geographical area, without a pilot's license. I ask you to consider whether this is actually possible – it must have happened already. We agree with the other legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9582	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9604	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The application for an amendment to the Chancellery Act is: It is very important, for this is about the support of people with disabilities who have an assistant dog. There have always been complaints, suggestions and requests from data subjects who have complained that they are not taken with their assistance dog. An assistant dog, ladies and gentlemen, is, in accordance with the Federal Disability Act, “a dog that is particularly suitable for the support of a disabled person in the event of proof of the necessary health and physical fitness and after completing a special training”. This dog is selected “especially in terms of social and environmental behaviour” and is specifically trained for “subordination and specific assistance”. Assistant dogs are only used as “Blind Guide Dogs, Service Dogs and Signal Dogs”. We did not introduce this assistance dog regime until 2012 in the course of a social law reform. In practice, however, it has been shown that, in the absence of clear legal regulations, problems arise over and over again in the taking of assistance dogs, and in order to counteract the disadvantage of people with disabilities who need assistance from an assistant dog, it is necessary to lay down the law that assistance dogs must be taken with them in vehicles used in the context of occasional traffic. This also complies with the provisions of the Federal Disability Equality Act. That means that another important step has been taken. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this proposal we support people with disabilities and thus also facilitate their daily routine of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9649	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9673	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! Please close your eyes and imagine, you are visually impaired or you are even blind and depend on the help of an assistant dog! All the ways you have to do, you can only do with this dog, and so, because you have an appointment, go to a bus stop and want to drive by bus, for example, to the doctor, and then notice that the bus driver does not take your dog away. There are many reasons for this, one of my colleagues has already listed it – but you are now standing, it might rain, it's cold, but the bus driver doesn't take your dog. In addition: You live in a small place where there may be only one or two taxi companies, and you know you don't need to call to ask for a taxi because the taxi drivers don't take your dog with you – for the reasons already mentioned. Of course, then you are desperate and frustrated, you feel extremely disadvantaged and extremely discriminated. – Unfortunately, something like this happens time and again. Not only the visually impaired are dependent on their assistance dogs, no, for example also diabetics have signal dogs that look after them, and there are many more disease images in which assistance dogs are used, for example also in mental disorders. As my previous speakers have explained, this problem has been recognised by the People's Procuratorate, but also by a number of dedicated colleagues here in the House, and a joint request has been drawn up by all the parties, which includes the requirement to amend the Chance Traffic Act to ensure that assistance dogs must be taken with them. As three previous speakers have addressed this issue before me, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that if you are among those concerned, you can be pleased today that we are looking at the problems of people with disabilities and also at the problems of minorities. We take this very seriously and try to do our best to comply with the provisions of the Federal Disability Equality Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9713	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9734	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! Every dead person is a dead person too much! Also our Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Lightness does not tire out to emphasize: Every traffic death is a dead person too much! I can only stress this, and as a result, it must be our goal to stop having road fatalities in our country. I am very grateful to our Minister for his commitment, because in Austria too, a philosophy has long become a political programme in other European countries, such as Germany, Norway, Switzerland and Sweden, the so-called Vision Zero, the Vision Zero, whose pioneers were Sweden already in 1998. Ladies and gentlemen! More than 90 percent of all traffic accidents involving personal injury are caused by human misbehaviour, so we have to design the transport systems in such a way that mistakes are no longer fatal. The vision of zero is aimed at distributing responsibility for safe traffic on several shoulders, not only to those of road users, but also to those of politicians and car manufacturers. With the 18th vote. FSG-Novelle, which amends the driving licence law, will take further steps to increase road safety. It has already been said a lot about it, only briefly: The whole is divided into four points. Three points are aimed at increasing road safety: improving moped training, improving the pilot's license and introducing alkocks. A lot has already been said on the subject of Alkolocks, I would just like to add one more: The alcolocks should be an alternative to conventional punishment. This should not be additional punishment, but rather the possibility of avoiding an economic disadvantage and a resulting social decline. Quite honestly, no one is forced to get drunk into the car, that is everyone's own decision, and so it's also your own decision to spend €1,500 for about six months so that you can stay mobile accordingly. The fourth point takes into account the change in mobility. This is about promoting e-mobility. Weight limits are increased from 3 500 kilos to 4 250 kilos, based on the fact that the batteries have more weight accordingly. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to accept this law in as large a number as possible, not to say unanimously, as it concerns human life, nothing more and nothing less. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9779	Next speaker: Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9801	Mr President. Minister! High house! Transport safety is and remains a central issue, and in its sense it is also important that we collect and analyse the data in order to be able to take the right measures based on it. The road accident statistics law is a step on the way to greater road safety and protects us all. Finally, every individual of us is on the road, as are our children or people who are close to us, whether on foot, by bicycle, by car or by public transport. Every single life is worth protecting, and that is why safety must be the top priority. It's not a cavalier crime when you're drinking on a vehicle. In my opinion, alcolocks are a good means of remedying them. I would like to repeat what my previous speakers have said: No one is forced to climb and drive alcoholized into a vehicle. In parallel, however, our objective must be to increase road safety even further. Of course, data protection must also be taken into account. However, data protection must not be pushed forward to prevent security measures. Safety is in the foreground, and this should be our goal, because every single accident or individual road traffic injury is one too much. That's why I'm asking you to: Voices You're asking for this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e9834	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Federal Act amending the 1996 Event Law, together with the title and receipt in 1418 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Roads Act, together with the title and receipt in 1347 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law, which lays down a federal law on statistics on road accidents with personal injury and amends the Federal Road Act, including the title and receipt in 1421 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1422 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft on 28 November. StVO-Novelle with title and entrance in 1356 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall only vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Hagen, colleagues and colleagues on the intelligent management of temporary and situative bans on heavy goods vehicles. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: ==References== FSG-Novelle with title and entrance in 1424 of the supplements. To this end, there is a desire for a separate vote by Members Willi, colleagues and a request for a separate vote by Mr Hafenecker. I shall therefore vote first of all on the parts affected by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall first proceed to the vote on paragraph 1 of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraph 2 of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraphs 3 to 15 of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on paragraph 16 of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on paragraph 17 of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on paragraph 18 of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1428 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[11:57:53]] 8. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1359, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Motor Driving Act 1967 (34. KFG-Novelle (1425 a.k.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 10. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 1900/A(E) by Mr Georg Willi, colleagues in the field of fraud at the expense of drivers, the Minister of Finance and the climate – that concludes! (1427 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1299, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Maritime Compliance Act (SSEG) (1419 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10110	We come to points 8 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Is oral reporting desirable? - That's not the case. We are going into the debate. First speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10141	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now debating four proposals here, two of which are laws, namely the Power Driving Act and the Maritime Compliance Act, and these two proposals we will also agree with Greens. The other two points to the debate are two requests from me. In both cases, these are air pollutants. If we heard the debate this morning, we could see that it was marked by two priorities. One concerns the technology location of Austria: We have to be at the front, we are getting better and better, we can always measure and produce better, everything gets more accurate. The second priority was: We do not want road fatalities in Austria as far as possible, transport safety has the highest priority. However, there are 7 000 premature deaths per year in Austria – 7 000! – due to air pollutants, and most of them are air pollutants from transport. No one speaks of these dead; these are the silent dead. We could do much more, especially in view of the technologies we have available today – and you all know this because of the months of reporting – to ensure that our engines are cleaner and there are fewer air pollutants. But all look away – up to you, Minister – when it comes to ensuring the cleanliness of the engines, which is always a very high level on the paper, through appropriate testing procedures. There are always others responsible or guilty of not happening. In Austria, the cleanliness of engines via the standard consumption tax is shown taxly. Everyone can see this in the registration certificate of his motor vehicle: The standard consumption of the car – the less CO2 per kilometer the better. There are many who actually look at it and say when they buy a car, they want a car that is as clean as possible. However, it is tricked and cheated where it goes. The VW Group is currently paying billions of fines and has a huge loss of image because it has faked something he could not fulfill. I would like to achieve with these two requests that we improve two things. First of all, the control of the exhaust gas reduction systems should be strengthened. Many of our contemporaries want to make their cars louder, more powerful and whatever. But what is being done is not in any way in line with what is contained in the type-approvals, and pollutant emissions will be blown out into the air at the expense of the environment. It was a concern of the transport representatives of the federal states – starting from Vienna; there is a red climate protection representative – to the Minister that he looks at these exhaust gas reduction devices at the cars and ensures that they are strictly consistent with the Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. – This is an attack on the environment! The second attack is much more serious: We would have it with the technical possibilities of today in our hands to ensure that the cars are as clean as they are in the license, but you refuse to see more precisely that we are using test methods that show this. The § 57a-Pickerl review, which we all know, is ancient, but is still being applied, although we have made enormous technological progress in the meantime. They often don't care about the environment. It doesn't matter to you that the cars are ruining the air and we have 7 000 premature deaths in Austria every year. That's what we Greens say: No, no, no, We want to do something for the environment, we want to do something for people's health, and we want industry to actually do what it can do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because you do not want to look more closely at standard consumption, you do not only damage the environment, but also two other groups: On the one hand, you damage the drivers themselves, because they have to drink a lot more fuel than they think their car needs because the car companies are just tricking. On average, the per Austrian car holder in the year 450 €. To do so, an average driver needs to get more fuel because his car is more dirty than it's in the typeapproval. The second person who loses is the Minister of Finance – and therefore all of us – because the standard consumption levy, which is lifted as a tax which enters the tax pot, is lower than it actually would have to be if one took the actual consumption of the cars. So there are three victims: first, the environment, second the drivers, and third, the Minister of Finance with his State. However, they turn back and say: Let's just leave it all the way it is! – The responsibility lies with you, and I would be pleased if your commitment to the environment, to taxpayers and to the Minister of Finance would be greater.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10211	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10232	Mr President. Federal Minister! Seers at the visitor gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Willi, I believe that the Federal Ministry has already addressed these two points very well, because in both cases – whether it is on the one hand with the standard consumption levy or on the other hand with the exhaust gas reduction facilities – the Federal Ministry has given an order to the Federal Transport Agency to develop more precise standards in cooperation with the Technical University of Vienna. I have to say the following: One has seen in the tests that it is very difficult to understand what results are achieved. If each state in the EU makes its own standards or tests, we have 28 results and then no one knows. That is why Austria is also pursuing the path of strengthening the type-approval procedure and of European market surveillance. It is therefore also positively assessed the corresponding advance of the EU Commission. As regards the other area, the control of the exhaust gas reduction system is in the 34. KFG-Novelle very likely sets out a way for accompanying measures to be carried out if a prescribed upgrade has to be carried out. That's what I'm saying. in Austria – tag VW-Group – has been 112 621 cases in this year. In summer and autumn alone, the conversion took place in 67 406 cases – more than 60 percent. In the KFG-Novelle it is clear and clear that a withdrawal of registration may occur if someone does not change a vehicle or can be shown that a proper upgrade has been carried out. We also need to be clear that we must be careful about the consumer in the final effect, because we cannot make the consumer punishable for what some companies have actually been baffling. This is the reason why we are taking very careful action. I assume that these measures will also be taken accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10272	Next speaker: Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10293	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I do not need to address Mr Willi's requests in a precise manner now, because Mr Lipitsch has already explained this very well. In general, however, it is already necessary to note that Austria, for example, has a lot of money in sustainable, ecologically meaningful mobility, in the development of rail and rail infrastructure. That is why we are in principle on a very good path. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all, on behalf of my colleague Niki Berlakovich, welcome a class of the Trade Academy Oberpülendorf to us. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this chapter also highlights road safety. We are able to use evidence photos from other traffic offences, such as speed infringements, also for the purpose of persecuting violations of the so-called mobile phone ban or against the belt or helmet requirement. This will be a further contribution to increasing road safety within the framework of the entire transport safety package. Furthermore, for example, radar or laser blockers with which speed measurements can be disrupted are finally declared inadmissible. In addition, in order to facilitate the administration of the driving school sector and in particular those of driving school inspections, we have created a basis for a driving school database, so important, correct steps are also being taken. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10332	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10354	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Ottenschlager, on the motor vehicle law, perhaps still: The photos of one are the roses of the other. I am very important in this power driving law novelle, among other things, the prohibition of radar or laser blockers – in order to say it quite precisely, the ban of blockers, but not of measuring or indication devices. The second, which I consider very important, is the new markings for emission-free vehicles, first of all because the ASFINAG is one of them. The system of empowerment, which is label-based, and the second because of the fact that it is finally possible to address the issues in certain regions in the punishment of IG-air “deputies” – under quotation marks – which are, of course, not there, and to clarify the whole. We also find very positive the change in the Maritime Compliance Act, which is about preventing a double punishment. Now to the very terrible – already almost – crimes about standard consumption: I would therefore like to express my firm opposition to this point of view, because the classification behind it is always the same: First of all, something is taken out only partially. It is written about standard consumption, at the same time the vehicle producers are blamed, and vice versa, the legislator, whether federal or state, is asked to do something about it. What's this about? – The norms are not something God-willed, which the car producers have come to mind, but we are talking about EU rules to generate something similar to the standard consumption of people driving a car, across all the population groups. Now I want to know how well such a person pictures reality by comparing one who lives in a rural region with someone who was in the 7th century. Wiener Gemeindezirk may be only about his bio-apperl or with the SUV driving into the job and otherwise walk on foot. You can't do that if you take it exactly. Nevertheless, a standard is created. Then to say, because the legislator – in this case the EU – created this standard consumption, the car manufacturers or the auto-importors are guilty, is a bold conclusion, yes, a conclusion, because they certainly did not want these so-called norm practices in the way. The second is the access to say: So, let's just put a lock on everything over it! In Styria there was the example of the Transport Country Council Kurzmann, who was also the Environment Council. There was found a mode for the city of Graz, which is certainly marked by the inversion weather situation, and the topic was regulated to the satisfaction of all those involved – without driving bans, without any drastic restrictions, simply with the brain, one could say. And this is also possible in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you say, there's been a scam, and maybe the whole thing's still stuck at the VW group: Well, somehow you have to take the stuff! There have also been companies that have made this with technical changes which they have made officially and signed in. But what I still want to criticize is that something – let us call it calmly – is done without shame, because it is done with dead policies. Everyone, as we have said today, who has really died for these reasons is too much, whether the reasons are in the field of safety, the environment or in another area. But making this business is unfair. Where's the limit? The next one is doing a shop with drowned people, with dehydrated ones and so on. That's unfair, and I don't want that in this house anymore! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing is written to you in the main book: We can limit the Austrian cars and the Austrian registrations, as much as we would like, as long as we do not want to do anything about parking with Hungarian, Slovak and Czech licenses in the city center, but in the cars not Hungary, the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic. Slovaks sit, but citizens of Vienna, as long as we don't have to think about the other. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10432	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10453	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I have actually prepared a few other words, but I would like to address the conclusion of Mr Deimek's remarks, namely the question of "business" with the dead. They referred to colleagues Willi because he spoke of the 7 000 deaths a year because of air pollution. The question is: If not policy, who else should think about it if people in that country die because of a wrong transport and environmental policy? I think we're the right contact. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Willi.]] [[Abg. Deimek: It's about the way! How many can it be? Is 7,000 bad? Is 5 000...?]] . I understand what you mean, but if you don't think the dead are a subject for you and we should leave it aside, then we take the economic damage: € 4 to 7 billion of money-value damage per year is caused by air pollution in our country; this is indicated in a wide range of European studies. In these €4 to 7 billion a certain amount of external effects, i.e. environmental pollution, is included, but a very large amount lies in the health system, namely prevention, treatment and much more. That is to say, it is in every respect a damage to Austria if we do not get under control the issue of pollution caused by individual transport. However, because my speaking time is very short, I would like to come to the essential point: We support the initiative that in future the electric cars can be marked with a green panel. This is the basis for making appropriate transport policy in the countries and communities, which creates an added value for the owners of these electric vehicles at no extra cost to the Republic. Classic examples are, for example, in Scandinavia, but also in the Benelux countries, free parking in short park areas or normally cost-effective park areas, access to inner cities, which are normally denied or also associated with costs, or the benefits of bus and taxi tracks, so that you can get faster through storage zones. All these things are to be supported. By the way, this was already demanded by our NEOS City Councillor in Salzburg, Barbara Unterkofler, in a petition to Parliament a year ago. I strongly claim that this is simply a implementation by the Minister, and we thank NEOS very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10494	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10515	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Government template, which amends the Motor Driving Act 1967, concerns the implementation of the EU Transport Safety Package. This Act implements Directives on the regular technical surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, on the technical checks on road safety of commercial vehicles and on vehicle registration documents, Mr. Willi. This innovation also aims to achieve uniform training in the driving schools, the so-called driving training. New in this novel is that in the future, evidence photos of a speed crossing may also be used for the persecution of other offences, such as phone calls at the wheel or the disregard of the belt obligation. This novel promises more road safety. Mr Willi, the facts are such that this has not only initiated the city councillor you have spoken about, but there are, of course, many political parties and mandates who are very energetic about this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10548	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10569	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is currently in the EU's centre when it comes to road safety. However, the Mittelfeld cannot be Austria's claim; we have heard this a few times today. We want Austria to be one of the five safest countries in Europe. A first step towards this is the implementation of the so-called EU Transport Safety Package, i.e. the Novelle Motor Driving Act. This concerns, inter alia, EU Directives on the regular technical monitoring of motor vehicles and their trailers, as well as the technical on-road control of road safety of commercial vehicles and the amendment of the Directive on vehicle registration documents. In the sense of quality assurance, this innovation also aims at a uniform administration of driving training and driving schools. This is particularly the case with driving school inspections. In future, the Power Driving Act also allows evidence photos to be used for the persecution of other offences, such as inadmissible phone calls with a mobile phone or infringing security belts or crash helmets. All these measures will help to increase road safety. The new regulations – which we have heard several times today – also include a green plate for electric vehicles so that the e-vehicles can be marked. Why do we want to do this? – Currently, the share of electric vehicles in cars is only 0.2 percent. This will change by making the cars cheaper and can also be charged in other places. In addition, certain privileges for electric drivers should also increase the purchase of e-vehicles. For example, this could be free parking or the opening of individual bus tracks for electric cars. And to do that, we need the green numbering board.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10606	Now Mr. Federal Minister Mag has himself. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10628	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Willi, you have now twice surprised me with your statements. On the one hand, you surprised me because I understand very well what you say in terms of content, and I also believe that things have happened that have not happened. And the Austrian Federal Government has responded! We have done exactly what you are requesting, namely: We're checking cars now, we're testing cars. We're testing cars to find out what the exhaust values really are. That's what happened now. We do this for two: the Bundesanstalt für Verkehr and the TU Wien. And I think if the first results are available, we also have to respond. So it happens exactly what you want – but you blame me! The second is: Of course, we also changed the decor of the trucks. We took the external costs into account for the first time. These are the things, ladies and gentlemen, which I believe are the right ones. The Federal Government acts and does exactly what you demand – but that is what you accuse us of! I do not understand that, honourable Member. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would now like to come to the second case of my astonishment, because I believe that we also agree that what we have just discussed is to combat symptoms – to combat symptoms, that even if the emissions values were true, if it were the case that we would fully prescribe the costs incurred by the exhaust gases – what we are not doing now – it would probably be a change in the situation, but the situation would not be eliminated. This situation can only be eliminated by bringing individual traffic in new ways. And this new way is, in my opinion, electromobility. With electromobility, we will really succeed in fighting these problems, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There are no more exhaust gases with electromobility. With electromobility we also have the external consequences of these exhaust gases under control. And that is why I am glad that we have discussed this issue today, too, that we are launching a package which, in my opinion, leads to electromobility becoming commonplace and manageable for the first time in Austria. This is about subsidies in the price, which is about charging infrastructure, and this is about incentives. And this combination will lead to electromobility becoming the mobility of the future. I am also pleased that we have created a recognizable symbol for electromobility with the green label, so to speak, in order to be able to exercise incentives on the one hand, and on the other hand to make visible that it is becoming more and more of these cars. I just ask you not to understand the green color politically or football technically. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10681	Mr Willi has now spoken again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10702	Minister, now bewilder She's back to me. First: It's right, there are first tests. But you are not ready to at least convert this pickerl review to modern standards that would apply today. And that's what this big mass of annual reviews are all about. There really could be a major change in things, in favour of the environment and in the direction of fewer air pollutants. But the second: That you are proud of the conversion of the tomb at the trucks, that amazes me. It is true, yes, that external costs are more taken into account than before. But these concern only 3 percent of the huge toy cake in the trucks – which accounts for approximately €1.8 billion. At the same time, you have the In the case of the toll, with regard to the euro classes, it was almost abolished. This has led to a very large freight forwarder in the surrounding area of Vienna getting excited with me. He has changed half of his trucks to Euro 6, and he now has the much greater price increase in the toll from one year to the other compared to those still on the way with Euro 2, 3 or 4. That is to say, you have applied a dirt, namely to put environmental measures in a very small sector, but in the large part of the toll cake of truck tolls you have converted at the expense of the most modern trucks. You know that as well as I do. That's what your predecessor negotiated with the Chamber of Commerce. They've gotten out a lot for their members. From an ecological point of view, the signal you sent with this toll cell is a disaster.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10744	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The vote will be taken separately on each committee request. First vote on agenda item 8: Draft concerning 34. KFG-Novelle with title and entrance in 1425 of the supplements. Who agrees? – This is unanimously accepted. Third reading: Who agrees in third reading? – This was, in turn, unanimously adopted at the third reading. Agenda item 9: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1426 of the supplements. Who agrees? – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1427 of the supplements. Who agrees? – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 11: Draft federal law amending the Maritime Compliance Act, including title and receipt in 1299 of the Supplements. Who agrees? – This is unanimously accepted. Third reading: Who agrees? Once again, it was unanimously adopted at the third reading. [[12:28:08]] 12. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1339, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG Target Control Health (1371 d.a.) 13. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1340, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the organisation and financing of health care (1372 d.a.) 14. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1333, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, with which a federal law on the partnership control of the target Health (Health Objective Control Act – G-ZG) as well as the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Medical Law 1998, the Federal Law on Health Austria GmbH and the Federal Act on Documentation in Health Care (Agreement Implementation Act 2017 – VUG 2017) (1373 d.B.) 15. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1357, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Medical Law 1998 (1377, e.g.) 16. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1869/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the Health Structure Plan (OECD) (1374 d.b.) 17. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1894/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the termination of the privatisation of the Vienna Hospital Association (1375 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1909/A(E) by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, Members and colleagues on the protection of Austrian health care (1376 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1868/A(E) by Mr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, Members and colleagues on the costs of the CCCCS for asylum seekers (1379, e.g.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1787/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on Free choice of insured persons in the event of benefit disadvantages (1380, e.g.) 21. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1738/A(E) by Mrs Dr. Marcus Franz, colleagues on "Fusionation of social security funds and general reform of the public health system" (1381, e.g.) 22. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1287/A(E) by Mrs Ulrike Weigerstorfer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Animals are living creatures equipped with sensitivity’ (1382 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10965	We now come to points 12 to 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. First word message: Member of the Commission. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e10992	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are negotiating today the Article 15a agreement on health care. It has already been written a lot about this in the media. Today, the so-called medical strike is also taking place in three federal states. And I think that is not without reason, Madam Minister, because what is to come, the so-called primary supply centres, are not what you are trying to spend them for. The primary care centres are actually to be weakened by the current family doctor. Even if you're always advocating this: Of course it is. Then: The aim is to bring together a number of doctors with other health professionals, where the doctors are then employed, in the ideal case probably also from social insurance. The patient gets hold of the doctor who's just on duty, who's just free, but certainly not the one he chooses. – This is the one side of the medal. The second side of the medal is also to be considered: These PHCs, which are relatively large, are more likely to settle in the district capitals, especially in rural areas, less in the small towns. In other words, towns that now have 1 000, 1,500 inhabitants will not have their own family doctor in the future either. And this is a massive deterioration in the state of the weather. You have to say that now. That is why I do not fully understand why we are going through this with violence. I have a little the impression that the Federal Government and both government parties are very much under the pressure of social security. I've said it before: In my opinion, this is a dictatorship that makes social security. They try to lower the system, make it cheaper and eliminate the state of the free medical profession. And if you know who in the background in the main association is the builder, so to speak, then that is quite obvious. And, ladies and gentlemen, above all of the ÖVP, you are always the economic party as the party of the professions – yet you vote You're here! I know that Mr Rasinger will now say again that it is up to us to formulate the law. But if I consider the power of the main association, which power the social security funds have, then I have little hope that when designing will be possible even great variants. That is to say, in total these PHCs will have a GDR system, doctors will be hired, and all this will be under the pretext, because, for example, Mr Spindelberger said in committee, nine ordinations will not be found in any district in Styria. That's what I'm telling you: Yes, we have a medical shortage, and yes, there are many young doctors who don't want to become domestic doctors anymore. That's got a lot of reasons. One of the reasons is that they earn very badly, very little – only about half of what a specialist deserves. This is because of why virgins do not choose to become domestic doctors. Another reason is the superfluous bureaucracy. And then the social insurance goes on to cross, sends the doctors the Mystery Shopper and suspects them to be all fraud and evil people. – All these are reasons that play together and lead to the fact that there are hardly any young doctors who say they want to become a house doctor. That's where we have to start, because if we don't have doctors, we won't be able to fill the PHCs either. And to believe that now nurses – whose training has been cut down by the way – will take over the work, that's a trick. But you want to go exactly in this direction, and that is exactly the thought that comes from social security in this regard. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... the untruth!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Unmistakable! That's disgusting! ...the untruth!]] Joseph Probst has already made this very clear. By the way, he set this as his goal years ago. That's exactly what we're against! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not want to break our Austrian health system! And I don't want a DDR system where you just hire doctors somewhere where doctors are not motivated, where patients lose their free choice of doctors, where patients lose their trusted doctor – I don't want to! So what does it need? – I have been here in the National Council since 2006, and in many, many government programmes it has always been called, we need to upgrade the family doctor. That hasn't happened to this day! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: He will be upgraded!]] – No, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the family doctor is not being upgraded, quite the contrary, the family doctor should be abolished! Be honest: They come into some PHC as employees of social security and then have to do what the employer, in this case the social security, instructs them. – That’s the truth, and let’s stick to the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Put off your ideological scams! Overall, it becomes simple and simply worse for patients! And, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you've already broken the schools – the PISA test is getting worse and worse – please stay out of the health system! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second thing that is still important to me – because we are dealing with a lot of requests here – is the item on the agenda 17, which is my request to prevent the privatisation of the Vienna KAV. We have already put this issue on the agenda several times, because I think it is a very, very serious issue. In the last plenary session, Mrs Minister, you said that this was all a panic of the union. I don't quite see that, because we already see that the city of Vienna is ready to bundle the entire medical staff out of all the Magistrates' offices, to stop everything in the KAV, so to speak, to equip the bride well before you want to bring it to the man – that is, to achieve the best possible yield here. The reason for me coming back to this topic is because there are really concrete plans here – plans that provide as possible variants that it goes either towards VAMED or perhaps towards Helios, or one files the KAV to perhaps make the revenues even bigger. And that's crazy! The union does not simply say that – by the way, these are the social-democratic trade unionists. They have not sucked all of this out of their fingers, but they are all going in this direction. It is now an open secret in the KAV that this will happen. We have to put a bar on this, because one thing I'm saying: If we are starting to privatise the health system, we have privatized the public's general care. And that just under Chancellor Core, who made himself here a few months ago and said that he wanted the New Deal, in reality now a neoliberal government, neoliberal thinking is in progress, as it does not even have conservative governments in Europe, I find that so embarrassing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] In this I actually see a very serious danger, because it is precisely you who are always warning about globalisation, but in reality you are doing nothing but ruin everything here in a wave of privatisation. [[Call the SPÖ:A fairy tale hour! Fairy fairy tale!]] Therefore, I would ask – and you know how the city of Vienna has acted in recent years, what has been privatized there, to the Vienna water, which has been partially privatized: Hands away from health care! That must remain in public hands, and that is why this request is so important! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11106	Before I give the floor to Mr Spindelberger, a request to the cameramen on the first gallery to the left and right: The camera positions are not ideal for this house, we all know. There is no reason at all to not film Members from the front, but I would ask you not to film them in the back of Members' banks, especially in Members' documents, if possible. Thank you. Please, Mr Spindelberger.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11131	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! At the beginning, I would like to make an amendment by Mrs Rasinger, Mr Spindelberger, to the report of the Health Committee of the Supplements to the 2017 Agreement Enforcement Act. After he's been distributed, I'm allowed to explain him in rough. It is about the fact that the Federal Health Commission will be represented in addition to those health professions for which there is a legal representation, i.e. the Chamber of Physicians, the Medical Association, the Austrian Association for Psychotherapy and the umbrella association of the up-to-date medical and technical services in the future. The same is true in this application for the abolition of the costs according to the Health and Health Insurance Act. In the case of hospital care, all persons are now included in the 18th century. years of life have not yet been completed, and not only the members under the Social Insurance Act. This means, for example, that recipients of orphan pensions are now exempt from the benefit of a cost contribution. In contrast to my previous speaker, I would like to try to reintroduce more materiality into this subject because: I do not know how you, as a Member of Parliament, have been addressed in recent months by many mayors and insured patients who have appealed to us to do everything to ensure that a doctor is present in their community again. [[Call the FPÖ: I believe this!]] In Styria alone – you said Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein – there are currently nine out of twelve planning places for domestic doctors who cannot be re-occupied because there is not even one application. And if you know that by 2030 three-quarters of the general physicians are retired, then you have to say it's high time to do something, there's fire on the roof! That is why it says: Act now, not only in the distant future! Acting is required, and I say that very consciously here and today – and not just as the representatives of the medical board do, by spreading false reports every day and thus massively insecure the patients. If they spread the rumor that our health system is being saved to death, then I hope they have more knowledge of medicine than of the calculation, because the expenditure in the health system is rising quite enormously over the next five years: We will spend more than €4.6 billion on the health system in 2021! [[The speaker placed a table on the speaker’s desk with a column diagram and the inscription “Efforts für Gesundheit liet über Inflation. ”]] And let me mention, please, even one other country in the world, which has already set up budgetary measures for five years in advance to improve the health system! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same is wrong with the statement that this health reform is intended to eliminate the domestic doctors. Ours In the future, domestic doctors will also have a very important role to play, because the domestic doctors know their patients and therefore also have the best overview of their health status. However, it is new that in the future, domestic doctors should have the opportunity to exchange with other doctors and health professionals, such as qualified nurses, physiotherapists or social workers, and to work together in a team. What is bad if the doctors have more time for the patients through these new forms of home-based care in the future? Please look at the new supply structures in practice! My predecessor said that in Mariazell, where surgeons work with osteopaths, with physiotherapists, with pediatricians, it works perfectly. That's nothing bad. The people on the ground are really excited because they have never had such good medical care as it is now. Such an example shows the importance of the new primary care units for patients, but also for doctors. The whole chatter about the fact that you can no longer choose your family doctor in the future is also wrong, because the patients can also choose freely in the future to which doctor they will go. No one is thinking about a free choice of doctor, as it is important that patients trust their doctor or doctor. That's why I'm asking the doctor's chamber officials to do one thing: The medical chamber elections that take place in spring are a side of the medal. But at last put the interests of the patients at the centre and help your part to bring the heated discussion back to an objective level, and do not constantly block all the projects, because the patients need more than just your No! Because a No to health reform, a No to ELGA, a No to e-medicine or even a No to new forms of care like those in Mariazell are no solutions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, strikes that are strangely only taking place in those federal states in which there are SPÖ heads of state, are not at all a contribution to a clarification of this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11193	The amendment tabled by Mr Spindelberger in the broad outlines is, therefore, sufficiently supported. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11377	Mrs. Dr. Mückstein will speak next. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11400	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Yes, we need a health reform, and we welcome some of what has been set out here in the reform projects. It is a health reform with sun and shadow sides. The Greens welcome the reduction of expensive hospital structures, and this means that the outpatient sector should be consistently promoted. It is also very important to us that there are more cash contracts again, i.e. the principle of benefits in kind is strengthened. However, unlike my previous speaker, I believe that it would have been a long-standing task of politics to create more attractive cash contracts situations, for example by the possibility that two doctors share a contract, or also work models that make the supply on the weekend more attractive and easier. We find that a basis for primary supply is very positive. In principle, we welcome the fact that there will be joint planning for the stationary and the established area in the future, and that countries will have to comply with the Federal planning requirements in the future and that there will be an enforcement option on a legal basis. It is also very gratifying that the hospital cost contribution for children will be abolished, that there is now funds for hospice and palliative care, which should also be secured for years, and that more resources will be made available to people with rare diseases. On a number of important points, however, the reform does not go far enough. I personally believe that this health reform has been more focused on the weakening of the medical profession than on the real problems of Austrian health care. There have been too few reforms in the field of health policy and social security. The jungle of competence continues to exist, there is still no funding from a single source, and we know how difficult it always has to do with it. The combination of health insurance funds to a health insurance fund is in a distance – and thus also the performance harmonization. The lack of general physicians will meet us with or without primary care. There are massive problems in medical training, and there is a need to address them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are also some points that we see very critically and in which we also partly share the concerns of the doctor's chamber. This concerns the issue of the upper limit on expenditure for the period 2017 to 2021. There is a cost-damage path. Yes, nominally it is € 4.5 billion more that will flow into the health system, but without fixed indication of the reference system. Indeed, it depends on forecast GDP growth, and therefore it is not estimated whether these financial resources will lead to a savings programme or not. For primary supply: The Greens are in favour of establishing primary supply structures. But we are for a healthy mix of individual practices, group practices and primary supply units. We do not want primary care to push out individual coordination or professional medical practice. To avoid this, it takes good and sensible control mechanisms such as the number of primary supply units, an overall contract also for primary care, the limitation of the number of doctors employed and the limitation of the number of patients to be provided. This is a very important point, just as it is holding fast to the general contract, because with the primary supply centres a new model will be established in a market-accessible way. In the case of social security, it will be decided who will receive the contract. This will also be crucial for which supply models will ultimately prevail on the market. A major criticism concerns the lack of participation of health professionals, and I mean medical professionals like non-medical health professionals. There has been a small concession of the Minister of Health – thank you! The non-medical health professions are now also represented in the Federal Health Commission. But it would have been very important to us that the participation of representatives of medical and non-medical professions is possible even in the planning phase. I am very convinced that good health care cannot be well developed without regard to the interests of health professionals and without regard to the expertise of health professionals. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I therefore also propose an amendment tabled by Members Mückstein, colleagues and others. This amendment refers to the 2017 Agreement Enforcement Act and to paragraphs 20 and 21. § 20 states that there should also be an invitation to the discussion and consultation of health professionals during the voting phase, namely if the Austrian structure plan is to be voted on between the federal government, countries and social security. The second part of the application relates to § 21, which provides that the planning documents are to be made available to both medical and non-medical health professionals four weeks before decision-making and that non-medical health professionals are also included in the review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11479	The amendment tabled by Mrs Mückstein in his main text is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11571	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11592	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Before I start my speech, I would like to welcome a guest to the gallery, the Nobel Laureate Eric Kandel, who came to us from America. [[General condolences.]] Eric Kandel was born as an eight-year-old child with his brother and parents from the 9th century. District in a very, very dark phase of Austria, during the Nazi regime. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 2000 for Brain Research, and now, at 87 years of age, he is still an active professor at Columbia University. Because we're already on the subject, a little bit of an American reference: In America, Americans would be happy to have a health care as in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I spoke to Mr Kandel yesterday, and Donald Trump was thinking of reversing the Obamacare. Obamacare has just managed to reduce the proportion of Americans who do not have insurance to 10 percent, so 25 million Americans still have no insurance; a thing that is unthinkable with us. I have to say one thing: If you look at the OECD numbers exactly, we are in the performance about two to four and at the cost at 11th place. That means we're talking about a world-class health care, and it's important that we get this! That is, I believe, also the meaning of today's discussion. What is the purpose of this law when you see it positively? You can judge anything positively or negatively. The aim is that by improving planning between countries and social security, we better close several gaps. The aim is to relieve the hospitals and relocate the supply to the outpatient area. The aim is to allow new things to happen. What we don't want is that we get forced centres à la Sweden, à la England, these are expensive and probably away from citizens. Where is the position of the ÖVP? – We want to get the freelance family doctor, we want to get the professional specialist. We also want to receive free doctor's choice; for us a very important asset. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whatever we want is an attractive professional offer. If you think that 60 percent of the domestic doctors will have to retire by 2025, then – like abordinary doctors Nine Spindelberger said – all the alarm bells are ringing. What's the best system for us if no one's in it working? That is why we need measures in the hospital, a better training. We finally need the teaching practice, and we also need an equalization of salaries between a family doctor and a specialist, these differ by 40 percent. – I don't think that's how it works. I've been a family doctor for 35 years, it's a very nice job, because I care for the same patients for a long time, or the patient has the same doctor. I believe that this is an essential value compared to other systems, a value which is very high in Germany, Switzerland and Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also tried to take fears. We have put out redundancies on redundancies. We have disputed the ban on the employment of nurses. There is no intervention in existing rights. There should be no priority or forced happiness by certain models. Furthermore, we have explicitly stated in the Committee that it should be an overall contract and not a free style that each doctor must practically dispute with the health insurance fund for the contract and then be more or less in the minority position. We have also disputed that there should be ceilings for these new models. We have also disputed that we do not want purely yield-oriented investor chains. We have also disputed that the role of doctors is, of course, very, very important. They are just as important as teachers in the field of education and justice. I would also like to say thank you on this point – thank you to the 4,000 domestic doctors and 3,000 specialists who handle 100 million medical-patient contacts. That's six times as much as in the ambulances. I think that is a value that we have to defend, for example, in America. I'm sad when a house doctor writes: We've been talking to our family doctor for years, that's frustrating me personally. I've been a family doctor for 30 years. Unfortunately, toward the end of my activity, I have to experience how this beautiful job is made poor. I think this is irresponsible. - Quote. Yes, if that happens, it would be irresponsible. From the ÖVP there is a double, triple, quadruple, tenfold, one hundred times yes to established supply and to attract these professions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We don't want to be ghost drivers against the opinion of the population that 94 percent says she appreciates her family doctor, but we want to let new things happen. Because we want to stay at the top of the world in health care.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11692	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11714	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The establishment of primary care centres could have become a real big throw, namely an enrichment of medical care in the established area, an additional form of work for the established doctors and a new form of cooperation also across disciplines with other health professionals. This in the form that doctors could have freely decided whether or not they would have been working alone or in cooperation with other doctors, in cooperation with other health professionals, whether they would have been employed or would like to pursue their professional activity. At the same time, patients would have been left to choose whether they want to go to a primary care centre or to a home doctor and individual fighter they have known for years, to whom they trust, whether they prefer to go to the care of a primary care centre or a single family doctor. But it won't come to that. In the health committee SPÖ and ÖVP have the shortest – and there is always Rightly suspiciously appropriate – a committee established that such primary supply centres may not be operated by – and then literally – “investors with exclusive interest in profit”. Now I ask you: If an entrepreneur who is a doctor operates a primary care centre and an entrepreneur who has learned another profession operates a primary care centre, where is the difference in the profit interest? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is already a gross difference!]] – Both operate this primary supply centre and want to earn money. In principle, we do not consider it immoral when someone earns money, but obviously there are two government parties who have a problem with the word profit. Social security would be a service, namely the operation of a primary care centre, and then providers would offer their services. The payment of social security benefits sees whether the benefit is provided, checks the quality and, in any case, you can cancel contracts again if the performance is not correct. In my opinion, the real intention is not to disclose to the Federal Government: At the end of the day, the health insurance companies will operate such PHCs and secretly disperse and expel the professional doctors. I claim that you meant that when you wrote in: not profit-oriented. In fact, the health insurance scheme will not be profit-oriented, but it will be the service provider and the payer at the same time. Inefficiencies are preprogrammed and money destruction is preprogrammed. Mr Belakovich-Jenewein said that there is a neoliberal model. - No! There's no neoliberal model coming. What comes is pure for the patients the state medicine, both in the established area and in the hospital, one will have the state medicine. And for the doctors, that means: One will only have the choice between different public employers, either one is employed in the cash desk or a hospital carrier. But the profession of the professional, entrepreneurial doctor in the form, will be less and less there in the next few years. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You have no idea at all!]] Now the Minister is going to hold me: No, that's not true, of course, doctors can operate such PHCs. What is missing, however, are reasonable forms of cooperation, legal framework conditions that make group practices attractive are also regulations of the main association and health insurance companies that make such cooperations of doctors attractive. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The funding of medical cooperation through the cash registers is very badly regulated so that it does not pay off to work cooperatively. There is no interest of the main association and no interest of the health insurance companies in such cooperation by doctors. The result will be that you write out the performance and find no one to offer it under the conditions, and then it says: Unfortunately, the cash registers have to do this now, because we do not find doctors who do it! The goal and the result will be total state medicine. What really belonged to the law would be a ban on health insurance companies to operate such PHCs. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Franz.]] Another sentence for the extension of the care fund: We are expected to vote against the extension of the care fund in the existing form. The reason is: Care needs reasonable funding, but we have to think more than just the next three, four years. As a result, the government is simply continuing until the care fund is extended again. Unfortunately, there is no solution to the question of how we deal with the increasing number of older people. We do not want to give our approval to this next round. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11781	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11802	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think we should go back to reality from the realm of myths. Here it is true, here it is prophetically shown what can be anything. Instead, let us look together at our good health system and its future! It has already been said that many practical doctors will retire in the next ten years. We also know, however, that some of the young doctors do not yet have the appropriate framework conditions to settle in regions where it may be a little more challenging. This is due to the distance for patients, but also to the conditions regarding the compatibility of work and family as well as child care. It is precisely for this reason that the purpose and purpose of a team around domestic doctors. It is about extending the regional care of patients. That is, we are developing the health system further, we are developing it forward. We invest – if we decide today, and I hope you all agree – in this regional healthcare system for the next five years €200 million, which has already been agreed on by the Federal Government, the Länder, the Communities and Social Security. That doesn't mean building centers and giving up individual practices. No, that means that the individual practices of the domestic and domestic doctors who are now in service can also be maintained, but they can network, that they enter into contracts with each other, to ensure that, for example, chronically ill children can be cared for in a multi-professional manner, are cared for by dietologists, are cared for by social workers. This means that special needs, such as diabetes, can be well cared for and adviced. That's exactly what these centres are supposed to make possible. This can actually be a centre in an agglomeration room, when newly built, but this networking should also take place in existing structures. That means, in total, everyone has an advantage of summarizing it very briefly: The multiple findings for patients may fall away, the broad paths will fall away, the need to drive into the ambulance of the hospital will fall away if networking takes place on site. For the doctors, it is an advantage because they no longer have to carry the load alone, but in the wheel they can divide the services well and work multi-professionally with other health professionals. It also has an advantage for the municipalities and cities: They can plan well regionally and also ensure the provision of the population. If you don't agree, I don't remember.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11844	Mrs von Wogau (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11866	Mr President. Minister! High house! At this point also expressly a warm welcome to the many doctors who came here to the House to listen to this discussion! I would particularly like to thank the doctors for their incredible professional competence. We really have great doctors in Austria. Thank you. [[General condolences.]] Of course, the fact that the negotiations and discussions on this subject have been such in the last few days and weeks – on the one hand from the ministry, on the other hand from the medical profession – are very sad and I believe that they are also counterproductive. But this shows again that there is a disease in the health system. It's tingling, and it's a matter of urgency. Of course, that's nothing new. The Court of Auditors has been pointing out for many, many years that urgent action is needed. Something has to happen. The stand is: We have overcrowded ambulances, we have gang beds, we have much too long working hours, we have above all a large medical escape abroad, we have unattractive cash contracts, overcrowding bureaucracy. Especially the future medical shortage in rural areas is a huge topic. We will be so far in just under three years that every third general physician is over 65 years old, and there will be no young ones. It's clear you have to take counter-taxes. We dare to doubt that this action, with this law, is the right way to go. Mrs Minister, we appreciate You very, I personally anyway, but I'm afraid you've been shot a little beyond the goal. Of course, these primary supply centres can now be seen as the first step in the right direction. For us, however, the right step would have been to strengthen and support the domestic doctors much more. All right, you're now focusing on these primary supply centres. Of course, this can have some advantage, but the disadvantages still outweigh it. We see very critical that this new agreement will also make it theoretically possible for companies and investors to operate primary supply units. Negotiations on CETA and TiSA are in the final phase, and we are already laying the foundation for the promotion of privatisation efforts in health care. That's just a very big source of danger. Very, very important is the human being. We all know that illness and health are very sensitive topics. One thing you can't speak beautifully: The patient will eventually come into a situation that may not be pleasant. Anyone who is sick knows it's sensitive, and you have a certain basis of trust. Who's the confidant? - The doctor of my trust. This is a contact person you may not have in this way anymore. When I get to a primary care center, I don't know which doctor is present. That is, this long-term relationship of trust between the doctor and the patient simply cannot be guaranteed as it exists. We all know it's just in the health field so you have to see the whole thing. It's not just a sudden illness, it's all one Prehistory. We believe that this relationship of trust between doctor and patient is very important. We will not support the solution as proposed here, for the simple reason that it contains, of course, one chance or another, but that it outweighs risks, so we will definitely vote against it. Now I have to make a very big jump: People are incredibly important, health is something incredibly important. In this debate, however, we have a lot of TOPs to negotiate under one. A TOP is a subject that is also very important to me personally, namely animal welfare. That is why I now have to make this spagate from human beings and health to animal welfare, but this is unfortunately not possible today. The issue is that we have introduced a relatively simple initiative to make a small but very effective change in the Civil Code, namely that animals are called “animal beings equipped with sensitivity”. Now you might ask yourself: What are you doing? – I would like to explain briefly to you: It is a measure of awareness-building, and I think that appreciation of animals is also a very, very important basis for our social behaviour. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] Me, we from the Stronach team, have succeeded in increasing the level of punishment in animal torture. I would like to thank you once again for that, which was a wonderful step in the right direction. I think, however, to be aware that animals are not things, but really living beings equipped with sensations, to sharpen the entire population a little, it would be good if you simply changed this in the Code. It's just words, but that would do a lot. I would be very pleased if you would put a sign in the right direction. This is not an idea that would be innovative in Austria, there are a lot of countries that have already put it in the Code: France, New Zealand, the Canadian province of Quebec. So it would be very nice if we could simply raise awareness of appreciation for animals. As I said, Of course, man and human health are a very, very important issue, but I had to discuss this in a speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11945	Mrs Oberhauser spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e11966	Mr President. Dear colleagues of the House! Dear colleagues at the gallery! I would like to thank you in advance for the very objective discussion, at least over long distances. However, this is a debate on a subject that we do not vote on today. There will probably be enough time to discuss the issue of primary supply by the middle of next year – I hope not on the road, but also at the negotiating table. The only thing we decide today is two contracts at federal and country level. We decide on binding planning in the region, and we decide on an expenditure reduction path, and this is not the first time. In 2011 we decided on the first line of expenditure reduction. I remember when I was still up there, and I think you were a minister at the time. [[in the direction of the Abg. Fek-tim]] I was very concerned that with the 3.6 percent of GDP we would find the result, and I was worried that I would admit that. What have we learned? First of all, with this expenditure path, with this 3.6 percent also very, very large increases in the number of doctors due to the reduction of working time, we were able to intercept without leaving the path. What does the expression mean from 3.6 to 3.2 percent? – We start at 3.6 and go down slowly until we are 3.2 percent in 2021. In some cases it was required otherwise, there were quite different numbers in the game that you would have liked, but we then agreed on it and calculated it very precisely so that we do not come to the savings – even in the worst calculations – but always spend. That means it's very well calculated. We decide these two things today. The debate on how we deal with the issue of primary care is a discussion which we hope will continue soon here in the High House and in the Health Committee and also together with the doctors and representatives of other health professions at the negotiating table. There are two positions on the one hand: We'll get rid of the house doctor. On the other hand, there is the position both Erwin Rasinger and I and others have represented: No, we don't think about it! I think I'm chatting out of the sewing box when I say, We both fought very vehemently for the family doctor to be a topic during the government negotiations that we both held as health spokespersons at the time. [[in the direction of the Abg. Rasinger]] I think we both continue to stand by it, because we both – he or she is better than me – because he works as a family doctor, knowing that domestic doctors are not to be thought away, neither the word nor the profession. [[I should like to congratulate SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] The second story, the anonymous center where you can't choose who treats you: There are thousands of people storming into the hospitals every day, and there is almost always another doctor. I can still remember very, very well my time as a hospital doctor when I worked as a young gymnist in the children's ambulance and parents came to me as a gymnastician with the diagnostics and therapies they received from the specialist, and wanted to see if what the specialist or the family doctor told you to do was the right thing. They were actually at the wrong address. Nevertheless, they have come, or they have come because they have not found anyone. There is nothing left to us but to force someone to go to a doctor to whom he does not want to go. You can look at the centre in Mariahilfe: There are three doctors there who share the ordination times. There's exactly who's there and who you can go to. If you need a recipe, you probably don't care who it is to be shown. If you want to discuss your health history with the doctor of his trust, you need to see that you arrive at the time when the doctor, the doctor of his trust, is there. That means, that's planable. On the question of the centre: I admit that primary supply center is a very misleading name. There may be centres, but there will probably be much more alliances where colleagues and colleagues join together, where they simply try to network patient data where they are trying to network ordination times. One will try to have the social worker, who may be paid – I say now – by the city or the community on certain days there, that someone knows in which district and in which ordination is now a social worker, or someone can say where one can as a caregiver, everything you need. That means there will be two variants. I think there will be nothing left but to put us back at the table to bring together these two positions, which obviously, for whatever reason, are irreversibly opposed to each other. This means that we can also implement the committee statement we have made – Erwin has said it a little bit in his speech – in fact, in order to address many of the concerns – I say carefully now. In order to perhaps return to the question of what the private investors make the difference: I recently have a contribution from Switzerland, I think, read where very, very many hospitals have been privatized. One has to say that there is another fee system there, so no LKF. As a result, doctors have been stopped to do cost-intensive – let's call it that – things are not done, but, for example, intensive operations in increasing numbers for the home. For example, the number of arthroscopies has gone up extremely high there. The difference lies in this: whether I have a system run by a doctor, a doctor, or by someone who only sees the profit; he sees the performance and expenditure behind it, but perhaps not the ethics when it is said to treat patients. In this sense: Let us go back to the table, and I hope that we will bring today's points to a good vote!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12045	Mrs Diesner-Wais. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12066	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Dear listeners! We have a good health system, we have already heard that. A very important element in this is the domestic doctors. The objective of the planning instrument is to ensure the care of the domestic physicians and to guarantee the local care and discharge of the hospitals. For this purpose, the Austrian and regional structural plans are to be implemented, where the stationary and outpatient areas are also regulated. At the heart of the debate are the Article 15a agreements on primary medical care. 200 million € will be made available. This arrangement, which has already been much debated today, can be an opportunity if all parties are concerned with it. It is a compromise, and there is also a lot of criticism – as we have already heard in advance. We have been able to establish a committee in the Health Committee – and this has already been mentioned – because it is very important that the contractual doctors also have a right of participation when entering social security schemes. Furthermore, the scheme for the acquisition of ambulatory services by investors has been formulated to exclude those who have exclusively profit interests. Mr Loacker, it is not a question of someone not being able to earn something and to have a profit, but rather of being anchored in the field of doctors. New to this law is the legal instrument that is now binding. We've heard about it many times: The reasons for this are a willing shift in expenditure from the hospital to the outpatient sector and the threat of a medical shortage that is imminent. We know that in the next ten years very many domestic and also specialist doctors will no longer be there, because 60 percent will be 65 years old over the next ten years. So we need measures such as: to reduce bureaucracy. to enable a training rail to ensure that there are teaching practices and the appropriate conditions for doctors in the country, in order to ensure that domestic doctors continue to exist in this form. In my opinion, however, the central point is the patient and the patient; they must be in the foreground and their best possible care must be ensured in the vicinity of the home. There are many seniors and mothers with children who do not have a car, but doctors must also be accessible to them. We can see primary care centers as a supplement to domestic doctors. I think it is particularly important that there is a network between the doctors, the caregivers and the various medical professions and that it is possible for doctors to recruit doctors. I would like to point out – this is very important to me, and a confession has been made to it – that there will continue to be the electorate and that patients will continue to receive a reimbursement of costs. In this sense: Let's do it and work to ensure that our health system remains so good!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12114	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Karlsböck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12136	Mr President. Minister! High house! What is the most important thing for people? – It’s health. What profession has the highest degree of confidence in case-by-case queries? It's the medical profession. That is why the matter is so important for the Austrians, and that is why we should not get involved in ideological grave struggles here, but really discuss these things seriously. Minister! We are willing to cooperate constructively in improving our health system. We offer you a consensus, but we ask if things really make sense. We ask ourselves the following questions: Does it make sense for the practical doctor to be pushed out by these new regulations? Does it make sense that the system will be destroyed? Does it make sense for anonymous, profit-oriented PHCs owned by private investors to step in and replace the doctor of trust? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Have you listened? There's no such thing as that!]] Does it make sense that patients will no longer have a free choice of doctors in the future? Does it make sense for the patient to fail the best therapy in favor of the cheapest? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... meaningful listening!]] Does it make sense for anonymous corporations to control medicine in Austria instead of trust doctors? [[Further calls to SPÖ and Greens as well as the Abg. Fekter.]] I'm asking: Does it make sense to downgrad the doctor's professional profession to a health service provider? Does it make sense that doctors should no longer be involved in the planning of the health system? Does it make sense for cash doctors not to hire doctors? Does it make sense to dispossess doctors in general? Does it make sense that, every year, relatively less money – you have said, Mrs Minister, the key to reducing costs – will be available to patients? Does it make sense that the atmosphere is poisoned by Mystery Shopper and bureaucratic obstacles? Does it make sense that private insurance is now necessary for proper medical care? [[Abg. Fekter: Why don't you agree?]] Does it make sense that patients should continue to lie in bed and children – as we have heard – must wait seven hours for an operating term with an acute cane breakthrough due to a lack of savings policy and that is why they almost die? Does it make sense, without a reason, to endanger the existence of a safe and grown medical system through a senseless conflict with the doctors? Is it useful to want to bring about a contract-free state? – The doctors want to bring about the contract-free state due to the process, which means for the patients that they have to pay everything themselves that they may not get back in the future what they will pay. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Shame! Which country do you live in, Mr. Colleague?]] All of this should be reasonable to Austrian patients and social security professionals?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, that doesn't make sense. Obviously, there are small-minded ideological arsonists at the plant that cause the greatest possible damage in our health system, by machiavelistically using the favor of the hour and by having negatively affected the most important decision-makers, namely the woman ministers and also the head of the main association. These measures and legislative changes are intended to make the health system fit and efficient for the future and adapt it to the circumstances of the future. In reality, however, one wants to disable control agencies in order to do undistorted business in the background. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Who? Who's doing business?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] I now ask you very specific questions on the basis of an example: How does it look today – let's take the city of Vienna – when a cash register is issued? [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] – Today, the city, social security and the medical board decide whether a contract is awarded at a location. In the future, only the city and social security will be awarded the posts together. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is all not true!]] In Vienna, Mrs. Stadtratin Wehsely is working, and in the health insurance company, it is Obfrau Reischl. You have to imagine this: On the other hand, if a doctor apply in the future, as we always say, anonymous institutes – in that case not anonymous, for example the companies PORR and Vamed – are in the opening holes and are trying to apply. Now you just have to know that the former head of the KAV, Mr. Marhold, is involved in the planning of these centres by the company PORR, on the other hand, a certain woman Eichhorn, who worked in the PVA, came from the trade union, had to go there unchallenged, because in the calls for proposals for rehab something did not work completely. These rulers, Marhold and Eichhorn, in the close relationship with SPÖ, Mr Katzian is also involved by the union, Mrs Reischl, Mrs Wehsely: They all decide against the little young doctor when it comes to a cashier's practice. Who's gonna win this, ladies and gentlemen? – There is a classical case of incompatibility. Randomly about chance! The new law opens Door and gate for corruption and therefore approves that the medical care of patients is massively deteriorated and threatened. This is ultimately due to a grossly negligent failure of the entire Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not allow that to happen, of course, we will do what we can. On the other hand, we will fight for a deterioration for patients, for corruption and incompatibility to be included in the health system and health policy, and for semi-political radio stations to clear off Austrian social security professionals like a Christian tree. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... half off!]] For us, the well-being of the Austrian patients is the first priority, not the well-being of the political functionaries and dubious business makers. That is why we can promise you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will take care of our health system and, we are now going to announce this, as one of the first measures of the new Federal Government in which we will be involved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12278	Ladies and gentlemen! I may also point out to our valued guests that our house rules do not allow welcome expressions from the gallery. That's how the house rules look, unfortunately. The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12302	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by welcoming the students of the Polytechnic course in Amstetten to the Hohe Haus. [[General condolences.]] I listened closely to Mr Karlsböck's speech, and it distinguishes us from something essential: For us in social democracy, man is at the heart of us. Mr Karlsböck, you said in committee that the doctor is at the heart of the matter; not the person, the doctor, you said. This is an essential difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schwentner.]] It is a very important issue that we are discussing here today. Above all, it is important to me to point out that the present draft will ultimately serve the good reform that is being undertaken, in the positive sense, of the entire population. There will be new possibilities to provide optimal medical care for the population. I come from the Mühlviertel and could report a lot about the difficulties that young people have with small children in the end. It is therefore also important to me that this reform not only creates opportunities in the urban area, in the large agglomerations of supply, but also in rural areas, for rural populations in the future. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also know very well that in the current system, patients often have to land on land, be sent down land, take miles-long distances due to various assignments and transfers – which are certainly necessary medically. The new system will make it possible to carry out investigations, other studies only one stick higher. These are things that are particularly important in rural areas. Another point: Opening hours. A colleague of mine has already mentioned the example of Mariazell at the outset, but there are also many other examples, including in the rural area, where opening hours have been greatly expanded due to group practices and other organisations. I think that is necessary and it would be optimal and important that – as I said – medical care is possible not only in the city, but especially in the country 24 hours a day, in the best case seven days a week. This ultimately saves us costs, because what are the citizens doing at the time when there is no practice open? What do young families do with small children? I'm from Pregarten and I know very well that the way to the ambulance, to the hospital to Linz, is quickly taken. When we discuss the cost question: We know that the new form of medical care will certainly be cheaper than treatment in hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by bringing in a motion for a amendment which ultimately serves to clean up paragraphs. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12412	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12486	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12507	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear viewers! Only if I follow the debate and the previous speakers, since the colleague of the Stronach and Karlsböck team from the FPÖ, is respectful, I understand that the people in Austria – not only the patients but also many doctors I know – are now quite unsure about the course of the debate, and also about what we have now received information. I also have to say that a large advertising drop in the whole debate is that we had a very short deadline or no review period and therefore no opportunity to look at it more closely and to inform us better; however, I am glad. This uncertainty is probably also due to the fact that in times of great change there are always uncertainties. I can understand a lot of this, but if I take the perspective of patients, I would like to scare my colleague, Refuserstorfer. Let's see what we need: When I get sick – I am not only a politician, but also a patient, I am also a mother of two children, and I have always been obliged to go with my children to the doctor, to the doctor – then it is usually still the case that the doctors and doctors, the specialist doctors, but also the general physicians have always been open when you have to work. In the times when you actually have the time – after work – to go to the doctor, there are no appropriate options yet. There are those in Vienna, which the woman minister has already mentioned. In practice on the Mariahilfer Straße, it is so that I can go to the doctor after work, at times when other doctors have not opened. This is a way and a step in a direction that we absolutely support. However, we lack many things in the debate, we are talking about planning in the regions. I only talked to a friend who's in the country today, up to 170 patients a day and who are also insecure. She's insecure because she doesn't know exactly what's going on. In fact, she already works much in this direction, she is connected with other doctors in the area, and she is also afraid that there are now large corporations, private institutions that are almost taking up a space and are based profit-oriented there. I think we need to inform the people, doctors and doctors, but also the people who are concerned about their medical care, who are afraid, who are better informed about what we are planning and what direction it should go. There are major failures, my colleague Eva Mückstein also mentioned some of them, there is a shortage of supply in the regions. In order to close these gaps, we need to ensure that general physicians find better conditions that there are teaching practices in which it is possible to work for up to a year. We must close gaps where it is necessary and ensure in the regions that people there, where they need the care, also get them at the times and in the situation where they need them. Last but not least, you have mentioned this, Mrs. Minister, about the discharge of the many ambulances in the hospitals. We need a different form of primary supply. Also in this form of initial care there are doctors of confidence, as one can see where such facilities can already be found. That means that this better care for the patients must be the way. This is somewhat clumsy and therefore quite insecure, but we are happy to take part in the debate and in what is still to be done and what can be done better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12552	Mrs Fichtinger's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12574	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues! Dear guests at the gallery! The present medical law Novelle, which amends the Medical Law 1998, regulates punctual adjustments in the professional law of the doctors. Over the past few years, justified requests and complaints have shown a need for adaptation on this subject, and many points are being re-examined. One point from this area is, for example, the acquisition of medical professional rights by asylum seekers and eligible persons. The doctor's chamber will carry out a standardized test procedure: Following a valid confirmation of the training, it is possible to access the examination to the doctor or to the doctor, to the general physician or specialist. This is also a point that contributes to integration and is important for refugees, it may also be a small contribution to the fight against the so-called lack of doctors. I am aware that it is certainly only a small contribution that trained people can and can make in this area for Austria. I would like to say another sentence on the Article 15a agreement on the organisation and financing of health care. It must continue in the future, I believe, for all of us to be aware that patients always have the focus and we always have to stick to it intensively so that all people across Austria get the best possible medical treatment, at any time and at any place. We have already implemented some improvements, for example by the Pharmacopoeia Act. Mr Rasinger said: Cooperation between the two sides of industry It is very important for the Federal Government and the Länder to be very important. I am also able to say thank you at this point that in my state of Lower Austria all emergency services are guaranteed that 95 percent of the population can be reached by an emergency doctor within 20 minutes and that the emergency helicopter – especially the rural area in the forest area – can now fly even at night. These are simply important points for rural locality. We know that the rural area in Austria is very large. A brief comment on Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein's speech on the medical centres: I can now give an example of this because it is said that the rural area will pay for it. - He won't! It's a challenge, and I'm already experiencing it in a neighboring community. There is a small medical centre with three doctors – a family doctor, a practical doctor, and two doctors – who share a practice. Of course, the mayors are required to make these medical centers possible. This kind of care is important, and it is an important opportunity for the doctors who work together and perhaps also have a joint doctor assistant who works for her. From my point of view, this is an important contribution so that medical care is secure every year. We owe it to people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12613	The next speaker is Mr Riemer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12634	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! I speak for the 22nd century. Agenda item, ‘Animals are sentient living beings.’ Since this hot debate on animal welfare is also to be addressed, I think... [[Abg. Keck: The debate is not so hot!]] – Well, that's a very hot story. The Federal Minister invests very, very much heart, for example for “animal protection makes school”. I would also like to say this here and not only in committee, it has moved me very much, it has been very addressing me, but that is just a small part of it. To colleague Fichtinger maybe something else: I heard the debate about the doctors. I worked in private insurance for 40 years myself. We know that social security schemes provide a minimum of possibilities, so that they finance the best possible medicine, we don't even have to make that clear, for which there are private insurance companies, which, of course, make a lot of money with it. The second question concerns rural regions: I myself come from a South Styrian community, and I know what it means that the priest is gone, the post is gone, and the teacher is gone. In Gleinstätten, despite the assurance of politics, a vocational school is closed. These are all disasters for a region. If then the only doctor goes, then the old mothers, the farmers – because social democracy is so social – have to drive by taxi or perhaps by tractor, 20 kilometers, 20 kilometers back, are 40 kilometres. [[Abg. Keck: Hey, hey, hey!]] I am not blocking your proposals, but I am just saying that reality is another, because the rural population is cut off. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something else, you should also know: The focus of social security is the medical discussion. The medical conversation is worth more than any medication. I think it's a lot and I have a lot of respect for the doctors. This, of course, also includes the so-called trust, a pre-confidence. You can't win trust in where you send people into a center like in a laundry street and you say: Look, now we're doing some program! - That's certainly not meant. If it succeeds in having good ideas, then I wonder why nothing is done about the fact that there are no doctors in ten years, and why not try to clean this bottleneck too. Let's go back to animal welfare: “As long as people think that animals don’t feel, animals must feel that people don’t think.” – I think that’s an old saying. There is another saying: “Never mind an animal as a joke, for it feels like you’re in pain.” There is also the question: Are animals sensitive or not? – Thank the colleague, Rejectorstorfer, for doing this on the subject. We live in an environment in which we have been depleting resources for millenniums – whether in nature or in our wildlife – and if we say that the species of Homo sapiens should still exist in a thousand years, we may not be able to be quite as sure of that. Man has destroyed nature, destroyed the animal world, and is also the victim of this will of destruction. Feuerbach has also rightly defined this: “Man is what he eats.” It's nothing new. You can see this when you look at the animal rights activists at the end of the 18th century. In the 19th century, the German Wilhelm Dietler or the Danes Lauritz Smith, who said that animals have a dignity. We shall now come to the request: It is the many sensual and mental abilities that dignify animals. Today, however, we are more in the course of that, as victims of the monotheistic world religions; there the animals do not have this position feature on and on themselves. The monotheistic world religions are not very friendly about this. Kant himself was not a special animal friend, but he said at least one thing: At least one must take into account animals, as this requires the self - esteem of man. Anders Arthur Schopenhauer, who clearly defined that the essential and main thing in the animal is the same as in humans. We are all here today called to act as a protector of nature and also of animals, if we really take the content of this request as it would like to be understood. We are the truth of the future, even tomorrow. Of course, this proposal is good for this. In France today, this is enshrined in the Civil Code, even in the Canadian province of Quebec or in New Zealand, animals have been granted the status of sensitive beings. They're all going a step further. This is about changing the ABGB. It should not only, as at present, provide that animals are not things and that the ‘rules applicable to matters [...] apply only to animals’, ‘if there are no different rules’, but that provision should read as follows: “Animals are not things; they are living beings equipped with sensitivity”. The applicant's request, including the animal protection speakers, is that one also uses it to say that we recommend it to the judicial committee and will also work for it. Maybe there are some people who say an animal is more than what you see on the meat plate. It is only about changing a small text, which would be a milestone in the sense of all those who have been dedicated to animal ethics for two or three hundred years and will also be prescribed. It's a milestone that might be a little light at the end of a long tunnel. If someone has the Christmas crib, if he is religious, standing under the Christmas tree and sees ox and donkey, then he should not just say they are sweet, but, I have made an essential contribution here. In this sense: a Christmas candle for the animals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12694	The next item is the report by Mr Hechtl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12716	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few words about Mr Riemer, who actually referred to social democracy as not social: I look back some times with shudders on the time between 2000 and 2006 when you were in the government. We still suffer socially today, and many people are still faced with social hardship. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Go!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, exactly!]] Another point also to colleagues Karlsböck, who, in his statements on health care, did not mention any word to the patient or to the people: We focus on people everywhere, both in health and in unemployment, because we are fighting unemployment and not the unemployed. - That makes the difference. [[Call the FPÖ: Such a fool!]] Now on the subject and therefore in general on this agenda block, which deals with important health issues, future-oriented issues of health care: I am thinking of the Article 15a agreements: An agreement has been reached with which certain framework objectives have been agreed, including the attraction of health professions. An essential thing The aim is to strengthen health promotion and prevention and to strengthen health promotion. These objectives are, of course, related to the implementation of primary care, around the doctor, around the patient, in which the patient is again at the heart of the patient. If our health system – as we have seen or heard today – is mistreated, I am glad that our health system is highlighted from the outside, our health care system is highlighted and presented as an example. If you listen to the last budget debates, this shows how important we are taking health care in Austria. I would just like to remind you that in 2016 we spent €241.1 billion and spent €21 million more in 2017 than in 2016. In 2017, we planned to finance hospitals by €4 million more, say, we invest €635 million. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, although time is short, I would also like to say something about the current situation: That is not a simple situation indeed. This action does not bring any confidence in our great health system. Mrs. Federal Minister, I am really grateful for the fact that you have found so clear words in the ORF interview today and also already. You have brought confidence and optimism back into our health system, and you have clearly said to all those who bring in a disproportionate relationship here that this is not the case. In this sense, I thank you very much. I wish you a lot of strength – it is, medically expressed, a difficult intervention, it is a difficult operation to shape the health care forward-looking. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12777	Mr Lasar is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e12798	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Before I come to my real topic, the KAV, I would like to say a few words to the PHC, which will be very delighted in and for itself here. The only thing that the Federal Ministers have said is that today it is still going to be negotiated for a very long time – not today, even in the future – that it will take months for this to be decided in such a way. [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: Not today!]] I can only tell you one thing: Look at Vienna-Donaustadt! For more than a year, a PHC center has been open there. To this day, no one has ever found anyone who wants to take over this, who wants to bring in his ordination at all. It is subsidized with over 200 000 €. This has not yet been done in Vienna that one does not receive a subsidy of €200 000. It's probably a lot to say that in fact no doctor, no one wants to take over. You don't find anyone. [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: I know the reason you don't know him!]] You have a model on Mariahilfer Street, I don't need to explain. But you also know who's inside the ordination in the Mariahilfer street – I don't want to do that now, otherwise I don't come to my real topic – that's of course a close relative of the Greens and the Socialists, I don't need to wonder about that. [[In the case of the FPÖ, the Court of Justice ……]] [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] [[Abg. Keck: Tell me who!]] On the real topic, the KAV: We have read a lot recently about the KAV, where there is a great mismanagement. You know, it's been more often in the media. I want you to... [[Abg. Schopf: Names please! Tell me who!]] – You can then speak, because it is very unpleasant for you to talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking now! They can then speak and should not always be squatted, still uncontrolled. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is not forbidden! You're nervous!]] To KAV, ladies and gentlemen: I'd like to quote a few things. [[Call the SPÖ.]] This is a very bad thing, as I quote, because this is a miscarriage, that is, in the town hall over there, and Mrs Oberhauser has not much to do with it. [[Abg. Loacker: False house! You're in Parliament now!]] Let me quote a few of what this KAV report says! There is no risk strategy at all in the KAV, there is no holistic risk management. [[Abg. Lueger: This is the wrong house! The Vienna municipal council is today meeting, which is part of it! They're sitting over there!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: On the matter, on the matter! Wrong house!]] Next: There is no control system, there is still no control. Already in 2004, a magistrate director decided that this should be introduced. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Lueger: This is the wrong house!]] – Yes, that is right, but we are also talking about the breakdown of the KAV. We can't just hide this because it's about privatisation. We have also made a request in this regard. Let's take a look at this: With a purchase volume of more than one billion euros – this is simply written by hand, for which there is no computer system to date! [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: On the matter!]] I could read more to you in this direction. [[Abg. Lueger: A road ahead!]] It is not only about it, it is also about more than 29 000 – the 30,000 – staff who work in the KAV. There are doctors there, there are hundreds of thousands of patients who need the KAV every day, the hospitals, the hospitals. Nothing just happens. I am not saying to you now, Mrs Federal Minister, that you are the guilty, I am giving the Greens, in particular, a partial debt, a great debt. You don't need to laugh over there, you of the green party have decided everything in the council over there. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I remember what my dear Mrs. Pilz did: She would have preferred to set up an investigation commission against city councillor Wehsely every year – suddenly she became a patient lawyer, and you just don't hear anything anymore. Mr Pilz, I am actually right in giving your colleague that you should not go to the main tables, you should go over to the town hall with your party colleague Glavischnig. You'll see, there's some that's unclear. [[Abg. Rädler: There's no one talking to him! The mushroom is now going to the stem tables!]] You agree everywhere, you're an attachment to the SPÖ, from the city councillor Wehsely, because otherwise you're out of the coalition. - That's your problem! You can't even laugh at it, I'm looking at it now, because it's also true what I'm telling you. [[Abg. Schwentner: We are in Parliament, not in the Vienna Landtag!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Just get upset about what I'm saying, and it's true what I've quoted from the Court of Auditors' report here. At the Nord Hospital, we are sure to talk about a lot of things, about what's in the Argen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This applies of course to Vienna, but nevertheless it is the social party, the socialists in Vienna. [[Abg. Gahr: Social Democrats!]] You can't just say: I'll wipe it all out. It's all none of my business. You all sit together in a political group, you sit there together, you do a lot of things in common, but you have the least idea of all, because what you have said so far is under every criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13099	The next item is the report by Mr Knes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13120	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Lasar, somehow the cabaret strip is, and somehow you have lost the stage. They belong to the municipal council of Vienna, but not here in the plenary room of the National Council. It's completely crazy what you're talking about here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Mr Riemer: 'Irrsinn', Mr President!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: “Irrsin” he said!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: “Irrzin”! Was “irresence” your diction?]] - Listen to me! If you don't understand, you can ask me later. First, an introductory sentence: All call for reforms here in Austria, without thinking about what is behind the reforms. If reforms are introduced, then there are discussions that ultimately belong to the municipal council of Vienna. I have never heard such an incomprehensible thing in my life. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You already called it “irrence! ”]] Another point is: When reforms are launched... Listen to me! I listened to you, too. Skill You have this propriety? Or don't you bring that together? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Vulnerity! Shame!]] As far as the reforms are concerned, only agglomerations are mentioned. There are already cities in Carinthia, where specialists have gathered and opened their ordinations from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. in the evening, thus maintaining the care for patients. And it's in this direction. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What, Ballage Centres? We don't need PHC anyway! You're just talking to the PHC!]] If we are planning the budgetary situation by 2021, and if we also need to negotiate with the so-called countries on the Article 15a agreements, and also with the doctors and the medical board, then it is quite clear that this first step is, of course, the right one. Thank you, my dear Sabine, for this first step, which also shows courage and goes in the right direction so that the rural area is protected in the future. [[towards Federal Minister Oberhauser]] But what everyone forgets here in this hall: When we talk about reforms, a request comes in, namely a motion for a resolution by Mr Loacker. It is already aimed at converting compulsory insurance into compulsory insurance. And there is a clear no on the part of the SPÖ, a strong No. It can't be that insurance is restructured, privatized that profit-oriented groups then determine the patient and the extent of the social benefits. Mr. Loacker! – Again and again he leaves the hall when I speak here, an interesting phenomenon. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You should ask yourself why this is so!]] But somehow it seems weird to me. It blows into the horn, leaves the hall, goes into a phone cell crying and demands a resolution that is totally irrelevant.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13245	Mr Knes! I'm trying to avoid using the accusation of nonsense from the speaker's mouth. Mr Doppler has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13270	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! TOP 12 to 22, all health issues, starting with Article 15a agreements Target control health, up to the sensibilities of the animals which Mr Riemer has addressed: all very important points. In order to ensure the long-term financial viability of public health care, the Federal Government, countries and social insurance companies have agreed to take out a cost brake – without any review, without an assessment period. Why, Mrs. Minister? The only positive is the abolition of self retention in children and adolescents in hospital stays. Otherwise, we move in a huge spiral, Minister Oberhauser, as far as health care is concerned – but down. €200 million for the expansion of primary supply – this is not a fresh money, but it is turned off from the so-called fees. In this primary supply, the Minister sees the concept of the future. Many hospitals and practical doctors, but also the doctor's chamber don't see it that way – rightfully. These primary supply centres are clearly the wrong way in terms of health policy, Mrs Minister. It is essential to strengthen and expand the established area and not to weaken it. This letter sent in the last second to the about 22,000 domestic doctors is of no use either. I am not going to get rid of the feeling that our health system in this form should simply not continue to exist, but should be smashed. At the staff, in the care, in the doctors becomes come out on devils. The administrative towers are getting bigger and higher. In my opinion, this is a way to pave the way for the rich and the large industry, and I strongly reject this procedure. I think someone has already mentioned it, but I say it again: Let us finally put together these various social insurance institutions so that we can continue to maintain this health system financially for our fellow people and patients! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13312	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13333	In the last few days, the prescriptions for 2017 have come to the municipalities and cities in Upper Austria, and the contribution for hospitals will be increased by 12.6 percent in Upper Austria next year. As a result, many communities in Upper Austria will be starting out for the first time next year. As a result, in the budget of the city of Steyr, this contribution will rise from 9 million to over 10 million euros – to bring another point of view for this discussion. What calms me down is that, I think, doctors are people like everyone else. You have, if there are any changes, fears. And I think, of course, we must take these fears seriously, in politics, but I would also like to see them on the side of the representation of interests. We have seen in the past that, of course, this change from the individual fighter, which exists, to a networked health care means many changes for the doctors. And we also noticed that these fears, which were present, have always been startled. You've tried little to do against these fears. I can only remember the double finding in breast cancer screening, a model that has proved itself best in practice, the electronic health records and the e-medication. It is simply clear that the conditions have changed, both on the side of the doctors – young doctors have different requirements for the profession, they may also want to practice their profession differently from their predecessors in the past, the model of being a doctor seven days a week is something that is often less attractive to young people – and on the other hand, as Mrs Schwentner has already explained, the requirements of the patients have changed quite well. That means that I'm going to need a doctor in the evening, too, is fact, is reality. And that's why I'm glad that our Minister of Health, I think, has explained quite plastically and well how such a network can look forward to the future. We'll need it. My home, Steyr country, is a huge area where people will just need a network. People see, of course, that the doctors are going to retire, that we need new doctors. Such networks, as they have been described, can be a great help for patients – who should be at the heart of the discussion. Finally, I would like to stress that: the abolition of retentions for young people and children during hospital stays; and Although for all young people, including apprentices and those who receive an orphan's pension, I believe it is a really great achievement. We can all be proud of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13382	Mr Dr Franz came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13403	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, my highest regard for the fighter nature of Sabine Oberhauser. Keep doing good! Stay that way! [[General condolences.]] In the matter, we have a different opinion. I am not convinced that the path that has now been taken in the health reform is the right one. I think that this is a small change that reminds me of baby steps, and not a big throw at all. A big throw from my point of view would have been if we had approached the often required combination of the Austrian social security companies. [[In the case of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities and the European Economic and ……]] Today I will also vote on a request, 1738/A(E). This is about creating an Austrian health insurance scheme, which is formally a matrix where every Austrian patient and every Austrian health provider can find himself, namely by offering Austrian health insurance from the east to the west the same benefits, but does not set up institutions themselves and does not itself lead hospitals and ambulances and the like, but rather contracts with the health care providers of each profession, thus ensuring better overall care, especially a cheaper one. I would also like to express my criticism of the way in which the negotiations have been conducted in recent weeks and months. I think the doctor's chamber is completely right with its criticism and with today's strike day. I don't think it's good to leave an entire professional group, the best-trained and highly qualified in health care, outside and not really hear. If we do not involve doctors in political considerations, health considerations, innovations, reforms, then this cannot work well. I think that the medical profession has some disdain. And I don't think that first of all as a doctor is okay, second of all as a patient is not okay, because if I don't treat these people who have to treat the patients primarily and in charge, then they will have to pass on the bad one in return. That's no different. If I'm going over the doctors and I'm just going to make money and get the maximum for myself, then I'm going to get into a very strange argument. For example, if I transfer this to trade union interests: What would happen if the metallurgists were to be made bad if the metallurgists had their annual wage round again? The union would rise to the barricades, and the ball house square would be full of demonstrators. If the doctors represent their interests, then all of a sudden this is a sin, and that must not be. I don't understand personally. We also need to remember that the mood in medicine, in the Austrian medical profession, is extremely bad. When I read that in the Vienna KAV – which has already been addressed today – 92 percent of doctors are willing to strike when I read that more than 3,000 Austrian doctors are already working in Germany, who have fled our system because they no longer stand it because the System for the doctors is not optimal, then I have to say: We've got a lot to do here, please. Today, we cannot get into phrases and meanings of will that we want to do everything better and want to make the system better, but do not make concrete proposals here today. Therefore, I would like to focus briefly on the government programme, where it says that the family doctor and the doctor should be upgraded as a whole – so far we have experienced the opposite! But I am missing the concrete proposal: What can be done to provide under-supplyed Austrian regions again? [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Please, we only need to look over the boundaries: East Germany. After the fall of the wall, the East Germans, especially in Saxony, had a very massive problem like that of us, because the doctors fled, they all went to the West. What did you do? – One has attracted the establishment there. How to attract a branch? – By offering something to the doctors. There have been branch premiums, which were in very good height – I looked at it again only yesterday, that was still in Schilling times – the doctor who settled in the east has received 500 000 schilling as a hand money for a five-year commitment contract, plus apartment, plus ordination, plus equipment for the first five years. These things have worked, which have been able to correct the lack of doctors. Why, please nice, does no one think about such models in Austria?- Oh, my God! Of course, a municipality in a valley in the forest district or another region that is under-supplyed can say: Look out, we're taking money now, making it attractive for colleagues! There are two or three colleagues who can go and then conclude a five-year contract so that they are secure in their existence, and then we look further. Then one can extend the contract or not, or the ordination goes well and one reduces the grants and the support to the usual conditions. You can do anything. I don't hear these ideas, I don't read. It is done abroad and is done in Vienna. The Mariahilfer colleague with his PHC gets €200 000 a year – that was already mentioned today – I don't think that's okay. In other regions we have a sub-supply, in Vienna we definitely only have a sub-supply in individual areas, but subsidies are distributed for a centre that is considered a parade model, as it cannot work everywhere in Austria. I have not heard anything about models that are common in other countries, such as capitalization. Capitalisation means that patients in a region register in a doctor and are fixed patients – 5,000, 6,000 patients per doctor – and the doctor receives a basic fee for this. That means he's got a life assurance. This can also be limited to five or ten years and say: In this under-supplyed region, the doctor is supposed to earn this money during this time. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] One sentence: I would like to invite the Ministry of Health or to encourage: We have so many real experts in the system – doctors, sisters et cetera – who work for years, have expertise, have experience. Why does the Ministry of Health not even make an open space, invite selected people from all these professional groups, organise a seminar with them over a weekend, and we talk together, what would be possible apart from the bureaucratic proposals made by desks?- Oh, my God! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13491	This is what Mr Schmid has to say. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13515	Mr President. Mrs Bundesminister Oberhauser! Health care in Austria still enjoys a good reputation. However, past reforms did not always lead to sustainable improvements. The health system should now be reformed. Medical care must be ensured by established doctors, hospitals and the like. Especially with regard to the Austrian topography, established doctors must be preferred medical centers. Forcing such centres at the expense of the still existing comprehensive care by established doctors is to be described as a step backwards. The measure promotes a two-class medicine, as well as the creation of upper limits on expenditure. Those who cannot afford additional insurance or private coordination will not be treated or at least temporarily moved backwards. Our social contributions are actually high enough to ensure a comprehensive medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13539	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no wish by the rapporteurs for a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Request by the Health Committee, the conclusion of the agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG Target Control Health in 1339 D.B. the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Request by the Health Committee to grant the approval in 1340, i.e. in accordance with Article 15a B-VG on the organisation and financing of the health care system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Draft Agreement Implementation Act 2017 in 1373 d.b. The following amendments were tabled: Amendment tabled by Dr Mückstein, colleagues and two amendments tabled by Mr Spindelberger, Dr Rasinger, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft, which have not yet been voted on. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Members Dr. Mückstein, colleagues on Rule 1(20) and (21) of the Rules of Procedure. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Spindelberger, Dr Rasinger, colleagues on amendments to Article 1(30), Article 2(s) 4 to 8, 11(a) and 23, Article 30(6)(b), Article 6(2) and the deletion of paragraph 9 in Article 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Spindelberger, Dr Rasinger, colleagues on Article 3(8), Article 4(4) and Article 5(2). I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their consent to a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval for a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Draft federal law amending the Medical Law 1998, including title and receipt in 1377 of the Supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: The Committee on Health's request to take note of its report in 1374 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1375 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1376 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Let us now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1379 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1380 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1381 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is largely accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1382 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:21:02]] 23. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1336, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Genetics Act and the Insurance Contract Act (1378, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13772	We're coming to the 23rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There are no words on this point. There is also no wish by the rapporteur to speak. [[14:21:31]] We are already voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1336 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:22:12]] 24. Point Report of the Committee of Education on the Government Template (1360 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Further Development of Full-Day School Forms (Education Investment Act) (1408 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13834	We're getting to the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr. Rosenkranz spoke on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13861	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, as a Kremser, I can warmly welcome the seventh and eighth classes of the BRG Rechts Kremslein from Krems as well as students of the HAK of the Sacré Coeur in Vienna. Welcome to the beginning of the educational debate! [[General condolences.]] I should like to start with an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's it! There must have been every outsider in the audience and in front of the television, what this is all about. - No, it can't be. This sounds very dry here, but: What's this about? We have a law here – it is the Federal Law on the Further Development of Full-Day School Forms – and instead of calling it the “Investment Law” or the “Full-Day School Investment Law”, this law bears the short title “Investment Law”. I thought that anything that flows from the budget law into the education system should actually be an investment in education. No, these €750 million in the expansion of all-day school forms, which is the educational investment that the relevant department and, unfortunately, the majority in this House here mean. And that in all the confession and with all the need for all-day school forms, because there are parents in working life who cannot take care of their children in the afternoon. It's quite clear you'll need it. But the SPÖ believes that this is only really positive if it takes place primarily in the form of restricted teaching. Therefore, there is also the higher financial incentive by this law when it is precisely the promotion of restricted education. It's an excuse from my point of view when you say: Well, for the expansion of all-day school forms, there are already money with the countries, which have not yet been, as it is so well called, collected to the full, and in order to achieve a balance here, one says at a first stage where the schools will then decide at the site as they want to do, then one will need to increase these € 750 million. Therefore, my amendment that this money should be available for afternoon care according to all school types, no matter what form. That is the deeper sense and content of this amendment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The problem also arises that, of course, freedom of choice in all day models will be clearly cut down. The Federal Minister will, as well as in the Committee, contradict me and say: Well, freedom of choice is always given! – Yes, but if it is financed differently by the back door, then there is an economic pressure to implement this measure accordingly. That's where I'm in a very good society. If I may quote: The State Councillor Barbara Schwarz from Lower Austria says that this package must be rejected. – I am already excited about the reaction of Lower Austrian ÖVP delegates... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Mr Walser! I think you're on the list of speakers, and you'll be allowed to give everything of yours. They also show me that this should be good. Yes, that is, in democracy, that everyone can really say his opinion: in the place and the place, as it allows the Rules of Procedure. [[To the Bureau:]] As long as the dignity of the House is safeguarded, Mr President, of course, isn't it? “The Federal Ministry only wants the restricted form of the whole day school and forces it where it can. Then every child is forced to stay in school until 5 p.m. I note that there is an ideological attitude behind the SPÖ, namely to put the children in schools as much as possible, and to train them in schools rather than from the parents. But that can’t be the way.” – That’s what an ÖVP councillor from Lower Austria says. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: A bad woman!]] I am now very excited about the coalitionary voting behaviour, not only in the ÖVP, because it wants to distinguish itself from different parties, but perhaps even from the ÖVP Lower Austria. Your vote will show it to us. But also in the Federal Council, where country interests are represented – should! – I am already looking forward to the voting behaviour of the Lower Austrian Federal Councils of the ÖVP on this subject. But now to the whole day school: The Federal Minister has meant that all day schools are a success recipe to improve the education system, and that in times when a current PISA study has shown the opposite of Austria as a witness. I quote from the “Small Newspaper ” of the 8th century. December the education scientist Stefan Hopmann, who is asked... [[Abg. Mayer: Oh, you!]] Mr Mayer from Vorarlberg! You are, of course, the lamp of education sciences, and we have already recognized this, so that, of course, the opinion of the educational scientist of the University of Vienna is only a “Oje!” for you. You'll actually see your access there. Mrs Schwarz is already quite right with the ideological glasses, just as you are approaching this issue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The newspaper journalist asks: “But Hammerschmid brings the success of the PISA-strong European countries back to their all day school system.” – Hopmann says: “A funny view. Finland does not have a regular school all day and Switzerland does not know this school form any more than we do. If that were so easy, then the world would be paved with all day schools.” The journalist continued: “Is the expansion of this school form therefore an error?” – Answer: Why should a child who is heavy at school get better if it spends ten instead of five hours there? “ Then it goes further: It's about individual funding. It is about the sensible expansion of school autonomy and of what has so far been available. Some say there's even a Council of Ministers decision. – No, wrong, there is only one speech to the Council of Ministers, so nothing in this issue. No, this education system – and also with this title, if you say that this law is the Education Investment Act – clearly shows: You believe that you can save the education system in Austria with this possibility of the form of the whole day school. This access is wrong. You can do at most one thing: You can say ideologically: For as long as possible, as early as possible the children away from the parents' home! so that no unsatisfying ideological goals are achieved. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - But we don't keep up with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e13987	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14049	Now comes Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14072	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Education Investment Act takes a very important step towards improving Austrian education. This also gives the right answers to the leaner PISA results, as well as most educational researchers nationally and internationally confirm, Mr. Rosenkranz! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Androsch, Salcher...!]] – Please, consider the entire range of educational research results and not just a solitaire view! Due to the additional € 750 million for full-day school forms, children can also be better promoted and supported in the afternoon – especially, but not only, children of parents who cannot afford it or cannot afford it. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Because 300 €...!]] This is also very, very urgently necessary, Mr Colleague – because you are so undisciplined in between. [[Abg. Peter Wurm:... should pay that!]] This is urgently necessary, because the PISA results clearly show us that most of the risk students come from exactly remote and resource-poor families. It is precisely with this funding that obstacles are to be reduced, including financial means to enable parents to send their children to school all day long. They can, but they don't have to! Since the horror is always drawn by a forced-day school and all-day school forms are defamated: The freedom of choice is to be maintained, of course. But for freedom of choice it also needs choice, it needs appropriate quality offers. It is precisely for this purpose that these 750 million will also be invested. I am absolutely sure that this three-quarters of a billion in education is far better than with the banks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Peter Worm: You have been saying for 30 years...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I am looking for your support and your constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14165	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14186	Mr President. High house! Yeah, we're talking about the education system for the xth time today. I believe that the starting point of a discussion on the education system must always be the question why teaching does not work in Austria. That means we don't have a successful lesson! Those who don't believe it just have to look at the official statistics that 20 percent of those who leave school after compulsory school can't read meaningfully and can't write and calculate properly. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If a minister in the committee asks what she intends to change, then she says – the original tone of the woman minister – that she does not want 20 percent of the school to leave, but she wants only 15 percent of the school to leave in ten years with these shortcomings, then I can only tell you one thing: Don't think about it, you won't miss anything! That's exactly the saying that's right here when a minister inherits such an education system – it's not her fault that it's the way it goes – and then does not go beyond the rate of 20 percent of people who really don't have a future to reduce to 15 percent. That is clearly insufficient! This is precisely what we are discussing today at the school of the whole day. The whole day school as an offer is of course a good thing, only as it currently stands, 15 percent of the children are affected in the final development. That is, even if what you want is implemented, and even if the money lasts until the end of the day, it is only 15 percent of the children who have the opportunity to enjoy a limited class. What is a restricted lesson? – On and on, for example, a useful thing, because there are children who remain in mathematics in the morning. These children then go home at noon, after dinner, and then the question is: Is there anyone at home who compensates for this deficit? There's the question: Is there parents at home who can compensate for this? Is there enough financial resources to possibly organise re-help? – Then, so to speak, the children are separated into those children who get organized, who come along, who then, as it were, also learn this building material, and those children who simply stay behind. The whole day school can compensate for that! With the day-to-day school, when teachers take care of the children in the afternoon, some things fall away, among other things, the parents don't need to worry – which they can't do, because they're not trained. Or do you want to claim that there is no difference between a trained teacher who communicates content and a parent? He can't do that in the quality like a teacher, can he? Or the teachers seem to have learned nothing about pedagogical possibilities. That's why: Let's get the professionals done! Let's get teachers in the afternoon to help those who actually need it, and we also integrate playful units to provide support here – and the whole thing on a voluntary basis! That's where we're at FPÖ. [[Abg. Walser: Otherwise!]] Of course, we do not want to commit ourselves to this. There are, of course, parents who are at home and who can make it perfect. It's just that it's about checking it out: Is that being done? – Not that the children then fall back and become disabled in their development. So: The whole day school is basically a good thing. But the way you put them, she's not: About 15 percent in ten years, that's too little. We must give all children this opportunity. As far as education is concerned, we must make the children far independent of their parents, because at the moment education is inherited. That is, the parents inherit their educational status to the children. It's got to stop! That is, parents from the underlayer do not necessarily have to produce underlayer children. This has to be done by the school system. We owe it to all children, because there are children in all layers who deserve to get the best chances. That is why we are not going to vote here today, because it is a small step in small areas, but what we expect of you, Minister, is not that we have only 15 percent in ten years or that we have the full day school or the school autonomy in the final development in 2060. What we want, these are quick measures. The fastest measure would be – I have told you that, I think, a hundred times, but you always wipe it out of the table, for ideological reasons, not for practical but for ideological reasons –: We only have to do one thing, namely to promote non-confessional private schools. Then we would have solved the problem from one day to the next, because they work. What does not work is the state school that suffers from the influence of you and your friends from the countries. It doesn't work, but the non-confessional private schools work. If you put the same money you put in public schools in private schools, we would have the free private school for everyone. That would be a good system. In this way we would finally have the heads of state – the princes of darkness, as they always call Mr Strolz so striking – outside. We would have taken away their toys, the school, and we would have an education system that works. You're probably going to say something about it now. You will say again, you want to support the public sector, that is important to you. But you don't say with any word why you don't want to support that area that is actually better and works better, because of course you are also going politically like all your predecessors. That's a shame. This is not in the interest of our children and it is not in the interest of a successful teaching. That is why, Mrs Minister: Put off your bonds, your ideological shackles! Emancipate from the heads of state, emancipate yourself from politics, and do what is in the interest of our children! I expect you to do that. I hope you put up the courage.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14234	Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14255	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to warmly welcome representatives of the European community of St. Peter and the municipality of St. Martin in Styria and Mrs. Mayor Maria Skazel. [[General condolences.]] Yes, I am glad that today we are taking a step in implementing the education reform and with the Education Investment Act ensuring that children are provided with a wide range of services and that both parents and children have freedom of choice as to how they can jointly shape their school development. We have experienced two poles in the last few days: On the one hand, the PISA results that have shown that there are too few students playing in the top league, but too many students who are at risk. [[Abg. Peter Worm: How much percent?]] On the other hand, the European professional championships. Austria has become a European champion. We won a total of 14 medals, of which five gold medals. This has led me to look at me a little where the differences between the dual and the school education system lie. I believe that the education system of dual education offers as an advantage a very individual system. The individual student and the student are particularly concerned. He or she is almost taken by the hand and accompanied. Errors may be made, these will be corrected immediately, and students will learn from these mistakes. I therefore conclude that it is our most important task to ensure that the best possible individualisation is achieved even in the school sector. That is why I also see a step in this direction in the Education Investment Act, because with a broader afternoon offer we also achieve more educational support for students. Students benefit from this because they receive a quality educational offer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Experience shows, however, that there are many children in the agglomerations – especially in Vienna, unfortunately – who do not trust that their parents have sufficient time to make their school life, their development, their educational life, and I naturally believe that such parental care is the ideal idea. We also want to make such children a decent offer. Especially for such children, it is important, in my opinion, to be able to receive quality support in school even in the afternoon and thus learn in a different, more relaxed environment, which is usually only taken from the family. In concrete terms, I mean the transfer of values, the design of good relations, the ability to interact and take account of each other. Today, student representatives have asked me what I think of a buddy system that already exists in many schools. - Yes, an excellent setting. I can only say: implement everywhere, in all schools. The measure of our things must not be the same for everyone, but the best for everyone. I think we have taken a step in this direction today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14307	The next item is the speech by Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14328	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In what is to be decided today under the title "Education Investment Law", the content does not entirely match the title, for, dear listeners, dear listeners, you all have to believe that this law should serve to improve education. In fact, this law is used to develop afternoon care. We have nothing, in principle, if asked to do so, but the main focus here is on so-called limited care, which we are definitely against. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This will then be explained by Mr Hauser. But what it will not do – and that has already been mentioned – is that the shortcomings in our education policy can be solved by doing so. I would not underestimate Stefan Hopmann, for, as far as I was now able to get an overview, as well as all scientific assessments – and they are of non-ideological interest – state that a whole day school cannot afford one, namely that education quality can be improved, as well as that the social sheath will not be closed. What it can do – and this is probably why the economy also promotes these things – is that the employment rate of mothers of schoolchildren is increasing, but that is not an educational goal. You can also want to, but you shouldn't sell it as an educational target. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's actually quite clear: Why should the extension of schooling improve quality? – Of course Stefan Hopmann is 100 percent right, it will not be! What is the decisive thing about whether education is good, less good or bad? – I think there are two key factors: first, excellent educators who find an environment in which they can really work – which we don’t prepare for them – and second, a pedagogical concept that takes a realistic measure of man. I think that's where the dog is buried. This makes the so-called reform pedagogy, which is now called competence pedagogy. One acquires skills and not skills, one even acquires the competence to acquire competence. That's a bit like knitting without wool, a pedagogy once-- That's right. I think it's up to it. People are equal to dignity and rights, we all agree with the 100%, but they are highly different in their abilities and inclinations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] The willingness to learn, to know, to recognize is established in man. Watch a playful child, how stubborn, how self-forgetting, with what seriousness a child tries to deal with difficult things with. Children themselves have a tremendous willingness to invest a lot of effort. The willingness to invest in, to learn seriously is, if one wants to say so, immanent life, otherwise it could not exist at all. The urge to develop, that is life itself! Whoever does not sit there not only cheats on the individual's ability to unfold, but also will not be able to achieve good performance in the overall society. This is exactly what – the thing has changed its name several times, from anti-authoritarian education in Summerhill to so-called reform pedagogy until now to competence education – which is exactly where the mistake lies. It is this false understanding of the value of learning, of the importance of learning: That's why it's not as good as it could be. Let's take a look around in times and a little bit beyond our time! Let's put our somewhat naïve or extravagant idea of living at the head of progress and development in the best of all times! Let's take a look at what's supposed to be such a spooky 19th. From the 20th century back and back to the careers of that time! I've randomly chosen some: Max Weber started a professorship at the age of 29; Friedrich Nietzsche gave his first lecture at the age of 25; two young people, Feuerbach and Strauss, took up their teaching at universities at the age of 24. What does that tell us? – First of all, this tells us that the willingness for innovation and risk among the institutions and authorities of the 19th century ==References====External links== This is not the point I want to talk about now, but it shows, above all – and that gives us to think – how high the average level must have been at the time when such peaks could be achieved at such a young age. There were not many who could not read meaningfully at the age of 15, and it will also have been rare for someone to leave the Matura without being perfect in grammar and logic in the textual processing of his thoughts. Today, such careers would hardly be possible. This is, of course, a great damage to the individual who doesn't get that far so early. So you have to have an overview of the existing established knowledge in order to break new things and innovations first. But, of course, it is a disaster as a whole, because only those who come to this summit at this young age will have the elan and perhaps also the desire to break and provoke Tabus. That's where we have to come back. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It needs a fundamental debate on the orientation of pedagogy and no ideological advances, as we have known them for decades, in a direction that has long been obsolete.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14414	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14435	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs. Rosenkranz, advocating the past, that it was always much, much better in the past, which is in line with the policy of the Freedom Party in the field of education. [[Abg. Schimanek: Did you watch out?]] [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Schimanek and Peter Wurm.]] It does not show forward, because the reality forty, fifty, sixty years ago was a different one from the one you are describing here. [[New call of the abg. Schimanek.]] At that time, there were no fewer students who left school with lack of knowledge, but clearly more. What has changed is society. It would be very nice if the Freedom Party would take note of this. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So my parents were still educators who taught the children to read and write! Something else happened!]] The demands of society, the requirements of the economy for graduates of the school system have increased. In the past, there were auxiliary workers in the establishments who did not have to read and write. [[Intervocations of Deputies Barbara Rosenkranz and Peter Wurm.]] There's no such thing today. If you are doing the simplest work in any company today, then you need to be able to read, then you need to be able to deal with the computer. These increased requirements are the ones that our education system needs to address urgently. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's not what you say!]] Mrs Minister, the expansion of the whole day school is certainly a right way, that is overdue, that is not a question. What's a shame is that if you take a lot of money into your hands, you don't have the consequence of actually implementing the goals yourself formulated. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Mr. Walser, acknowledge realities!]] I would like to read to you a quote from 1974, which I read many years ago. It comes from a great social democrat, from Johanna Dohnal. What amazes me is how up-to-date this is, but unfortunately, don't focus on it: “I am one of those who will not stop calling for the establishment of all-day schools, in the form of the Integrated General School, because only by bringing together these two forms of school will it be possible to give all children the same opportunities in schooling.” That's what it's all about! I can only support Johanna Dohnal – no, I can't, because she died, unfortunately, but Johanna Dohnal is right here with every word. Not only do we need all day school, but we need to link these two schools together. On the topic of freedom of choice – by the Freedom Party, also repeatedly put in the foreground by the Conservatives –: Yes, if we have enough money in this Republic to provide each child with the school system it needs, then we can talk about it. That's no question at all, but we don't have the necessary money. We need to see that we use the existing resources efficiently. And: Yes, to the freedom of choice, but we will do so! Let us make the modern, common all day school a model, and then the parents who do not want it can choose within 20 kilometres of where they will bring their child. However, we cannot block pedagogical progress until at last the majority of the population, the majority in the country days – especially in Lower Austria and other ore-conservative states – is ready to take decisive steps with us. Mr Rosenkranz led Finland and Mr Hopmann: In Finland, Mr. Collegue, 30 percent of the teaching takes place outside the school. This is one of the secrets, and that was the answer that perhaps the specialist on the parquet – namely, the one who organized the PISA tests internationally – gave. It is Andreas Schleicher, who clearly and clearly pointed out this: Yes, that's the success model! We have to go there and I would have imagined more consistent steps. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... plus uniform..., plus other school classes,... everything!]] One aspect I would like to address even more precisely, Mrs Minister. Since I've been in politics, I've signed every email with the addition: “No child left behind!” At every e-mail I write, this is the one below, and here you are making a model in which you leave back those children who would need it most, namely the children with special educational needs. This is not only unfair to these children, it is also a fundamental problem for our school system that we do not address it to the weakest. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a measure that would help those who are most serious in our school system. A word to disburse the money: Mrs Minister, we do not understand that a third of the money goes back to the countries. I know you're saying, This is guaranteed that this will be used in a targeted manner. – Nothing is guaranteed! We have our experiences with these funds, and we know that there are many, many corners and edges where you can hide the money. We know that many investments in the countries are not made as planned by the legislator. That's it. They are giving away one third of the money here and practically refraining from having the hand on it, we cannot understand it. Overall, I cannot understand this new system of support. The fact that the federal government is suddenly responsible for investments that actually have to make municipalities and countries, on the other hand, that the countries and communities should suddenly pay teachers, which brings even more complexity into this system, which is hardly transparent in itself. Mrs Minister, this requires clear structures. I'm sorry to have to criticize you once again if you say: Administrative reform is at the bottom of the list of priorities. - No! We need a clear structure in our education system so that measures can be really targeted where we would like them to be. I don't understand this Murks. I do not understand that we do not come to a meaningful division of tasks within the meaning of a completely federalist state. I do not understand that these good approaches are constantly being transformed into lazy compromises. I can only say that it still flows money into the education system. I'd say the glass is half full. We therefore agree – but I can assure you with some abdominal pain.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14581	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14638	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 24 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll just interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14675	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:33]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management on ‘Austrian products instead of environmentally and health harmful palm oil from the rainforest’ (11076/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e14712	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 11076/J. As this has since been reached by all the Members, the reading by the writer is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15027	I give Mr Steinbichler as the first questioner to justify the request in accordance with § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Your speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15048	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members, staff members in the club for their support and for the fact that this urgent request could take place just before Christmas, during the holiday season, the time of family meeting – during which it is certainly time to talk about food –. I would also like to thank all those colleagues who support me. Yesterday, the “Small Newspaper” showed the routes that a regional and an international Christmas menu must take to land on our plate. Ladies and gentlemen, these routes differ quite clearly: For the national Christmas menu it is 499 kilometers, for the international menu 53 000 kilometers. [[Mr Rädler's call.]] Thank you, Mr Rädler, for drawing my attention to this. I believe that today's exhibition in the column hall of aid under the slogan Voorraten is particularly suitable for this topic. We do not know how to appreciate it and do not understand what it means to have enough food available regionally. I think this is a very important issue in terms of food sovereignty. A surplus is proposed, and this House is often overstepped during the discussion of this concept. We're talking about milk surplus, meat mountains, grain mountains, but we don't know where our food and its contents come from. I would particularly like to mention the four graduates and the Director and project directors of HLW Steyr, the Higher Training Institute for Economics. Four graduates have decided – we were at the presentation – to do the following topic on their matura work: Cheap fat governs the world. I am truly grateful that these young students who work for their future have addressed this issue. I am convinced that we are on a good path if we manage to raise children's awareness of this issue at schools and in families. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I should like to begin by mentioning the time period necessary for a subject to be recognised and really discussed. Ten years ago, I just joined the speaker's desk with such a spray-sahnedosis at the General Assembly of the Gmundner Molkerei. I still have the picture of the head-shaking farmers today Eyes that said: What does this can have to do with milk and the dairy assembly? [[The speaker shall keep the above-mentioned subject-matter up to date.]] There are ten varieties of plant spray cream. This is a Belgian and, of course, a palm oil product with five e-numbers. The worst thing about this cream is that the general importer is a farm cooperative, which then pitys the milk lake and Butterberg, but at the same time distributes the main competitive product of the agricultural, regional product. I want to stretch a bow, because I think that you also have to show a certain chronology that explains why such a thing is going on for so long. I've distanced myself from larger bonds. It is the small bonds that I can deal with today in this explanatory statement. Of course, there are ten times larger bonds everywhere. I would like to start with the situation on the ground, since I believe it is very essential to recognize what is triggered by this palm oil issue, which is what we are causing on-site – in Asia and according to the latest reports already in Africa. In Gabon the rain forest redundancies are currently beginning, under the most brutal circumstances. I think that is also a reason for such a request, because how can one call a product, a monoculture of 20 million hectares, sustainable? How can the product of a monoculture, which destroys nature on the ground, ruin the animal world through which the native population is driven under the pretext that jobs would be created and imported into Europe carelessly? The saddest thing about this situation in the rain forest is this picture – I wanted to start consciously with it: This orangutan with his baby is just an example of many. [[The speaker holds an image in the height on which an Orangutan with his baby can be seen in front of a reddish forest landscape.]] We could also mention the rhino, the elephant, or the king - stoner as an example. The whole animal world is smoked out, or, if it's really bad, grilled. I'm going to take another bow and show what this is causing in Europe, but we're still on the spot: If we are doing business with the climate disaster and the environmental catastrophes caused by it, then we must also see this in the Connex – in this House very often debated – of refugee and asylum issues. We currently have 80 percent of refugees from the economy and climate. This is in a close context, as reported in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” and other newspapers, with the unrest on the ground, both with the war and with the famine situation – today’s UNICEF report: 70,000 children are threatened with acute hunger. And we are discussing food waste in Europe and also in Austria. Many products did not deserve the designation as food. Mr Minister, I have already mentioned this: Consider what is often exported under Austrian flag, then that is questionable, because this is about the future. But I'll be there in the second part. I would like to remain brief on the impact on the spot: Drying of small regional family farms, family farms. There is enough dokus, I remember Kurt Langbein’s “Land Robbery”, I remember Petra Ramsauer’s book “So Hunger Is Made. ” I also thank the ORF for its last “today concrete” broadcast, in which it was first pointed out in connection with the Christmas bakery that in 80 percent of the products contain palm oil. In this context, I call into question the certification. How to issue certificates in the rainforest, if, according to a report from the WDR, which also ran last week, under the title “We drink rain forest – the lie of the eco-diesel”, we know that 90 percent of the rubble in the rainforest is illegal, done without permission and by brutal rule is carried out with bulldozers and by fireroding – so much to this connex. Because we always talk about the export miracle, perhaps a first example: How can it be – or is that the world market that we worship so much? – that we might then go on to buy pellets and wood from Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic in our various building markets, supermarkets or in the warehouse – and that in a country where we have 47 percent of our own forest?- Oh, my God! If that's the world market, I'll explain. What's the point? – It will destroy domestic production, no matter where, regional jobs, no matter where. I think that is very essential, and in this context you have to look at it. The next point is stone and clear and essential: By chance, I have come to believe that the financial sector is also involved. Through a German bank, I was sent advice, guaranteed double-digit return on profits with green shares. I have looked at the God in more detail, and I have seen that it is palm oil shares, which unfortunately also European pension funds have invested in. That's why, I think, the game is running so excellent: because there are many who deserve it. Mr. Minister, you have to question that very carefully. That's why I was disappointed when I was 16 years old. In April 2015, you asked a question and did not answer the relevant questions. Thankfully, these questions have now answered Greenpeace and WWF: Palm oil is contained in 80 percent of the cookies. At that time – questions 10 to 15 – when it came to the volume of palm oil in cosmetics, detergents, candles or lubricants, there was no answer: no jurisdiction. – That's the Connex. I would now like to speak at the European level: It is often spoken of by 150 percent of milk products – i.e. domestic production – and then the fat equivalents are not calculated. This is frying fat from palm oil from the local supplier. [[The speaker shall hold a bulwark with the label “brown fat” in height.]] But that's a little bound, ladies and gentlemen, that's also in the 30-liter can. We must be aware that regional production does not have a chance if we do not cover these substitutes. I think that is the essential – and I repeat exactly what I have already said in the Committee on Agriculture: Globalisation serves the corporations. And I already said it this morning on the technology topic: There is not looking for the markets, but for dividends and profits. This is where the state, which is regionally structured, has no opportunity for the regional economy. That is why I am working for a regionalization that places people at the centre, as it was addressed. I am allowed to continue with the food products, because of course you can also see it in advertising – such debris is no longer, but of course it is taken in all large kitchens –: [[the speaker holds a large pack of margarine in height]] This is rainforest with BIO-AUSTRIA seal, with BIO-AUSTRIA certificate: Linea Verde Palm oil margarine. That can't be. We have to ask ourselves what the entire seal is worth! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Maybe we'll stick to fat: What can the consumer do if he gets this palm oil butter packed out at the hotel. [[The speaker holds a smaller pack of palm oil margarine.]] I'm convinced that the food chemists make up the taste like butter, it's also on it: ‘Professional, like butter’. We must not put this into liability to consumers, but we must not offer it at all. Exactly the same size as the piece of butter, as well. written, even “Professional, like Butter”, and so the consumer is also led behind the light. I think there's plenty of examples. Let's just stick to fat: No matter what lifestyle, some say that with animal protection it will be too much for them, they really want to live environmentally conscious, environmentally friendly, they want healthy vegetable fat. [[the speaker holds another pack in the height]] [[Mr Rädler's call.]] Please, Mr Rädler, this is vegan fat with palm oil. In all areas, it doesn't matter: These products have been so intelligently packed, these products have simply become economic patterns with which to make double-digit returns, on the back of the regional population in the rainforest, the environment and the climate, and also on the back of the European population – especially the Austrian farmers. What I would particularly like to mention is, of course, how production has increased. [[The speaker shows a bar chart.]] Unimaginable what's going on in rainforest: 20 million hectares of palm groves. Unimaginable how much space is rowed hourly. You have to imagine this: I'm going home for a hectare of field to field a three-quarters of an hour, for a hectare of field with a four-sharp flight, and in the hour over a thousand hectares of rainforest are rowed, over a thousand hectares of rainforest are wooded down, planned away, heated away. And then you have to imagine what that means that this is always presented as the healthy vegetable fat! We have already held many discussions in this area about glyphosate – glyphosate, which lies on the Austrian and European fields. Friends, to the same extent as the palm oil surface increases, the glyphosate production is increasing! There's the most brutal chemistry in there, it's given directly to the people. There are no figures on the use of fertilizers, there are only reports of Greenpeace and WWF that all drinking water reserves are polluted and polluted on site. On further business: I don't even need to mention all the cooking creams and everything there is in all facets. With daily breakfast you start the day with Nutella, whose main ingredient is palm oil. [[The speaker holds up a glass of Nutella.]] We need to address this clearly. It doesn't make sense to say: Well, as it has been done in recent years, it is probably the reason why this has succeeded, but the stone biker screams, he's so loud, he wants to represent himself, that's what you have relatively fast! Ladies and gentlemen, no, we have all approved this. And what effects this has, I'll say right now. The whole thing goes, of course, to the animal feed. That's quite clear: Another business branch, you can then earn quite well and naturally give vegetable fats into it. I would like to stop this area. In the meantime, artificial cheese does not mean artificial cheese, but vegan cheese – all wonderful, the advertising industry does. I would now like to speak in Europe and Austria: Mr Minister, we will discuss tomorrow in the social field the misappropriation of a milk package in the social security sector. As an example, however, I would like to point out what disastrous consequences it has. We have seen how in the rainforest the animal world is destroyed and how this EU's European dairy programme with €500 million has brought about nothing but a slaughter wave of these dear dairy cows. [[The speaker presents the picture of a dairy cow on the speaker's desk.]] What destroys the rainforest there threatens the well-kept cultural landscape with the permanent meadows. We have slaughtered 300 000 such dear cows in Europe with this dairy cow programme, dear animal protectors! 300,000 such cows had to die because we said we have a milk surplus, we have a fat mountain, we don't know where to go – all artificially initiated! That's crazy! We need to be aware of the impact in the rainforest, we need to be aware of the impact on transport, and we need to be aware of the impact on our regional economy in rural areas. This money is missing. This milk money is no longer invested in regional agriculture, in the buildings. It is also no longer invested in the downstream and downstream areas. This money is missing from the economy. This is exactly the following point: the thinning of the rural area. We were in Berlin. The Secretary of State for Easter has confirmed: What's happening there right now is that the rural area collapses. The colchoses cannot pay wages with these prices which we currently have, they are wandering away, the villages are disbanding, the clubs are breaking up, and everyone can discuss with the Commissioner about who is based there. Mr Minister, that is exactly what I would like to put in this context. I will come back later to the demand for what you can do with the Minister of Finance in the form of taxes. That's exactly the point: That would be an economic miracle! We have calculated with our staff in the club, which would be if we substitute the palm oil fat with milk fat. I particularly refer to fat from the field: Sunflower oil, soy oil, rape oil – no matter what, but you must not talk about surplus areas, because this has never had Austria. That was always a lie: We have surplus production, we have surplus areas! – This lie has been used so that the farmers don’t trust themselves so that they can say: Shut up, because if you're not good, we won't get you anything! – If we substitute this palm fat with butter fat, we need another 31 million cows in Europe to the current 29 million cows. Mr Minister, that would be an economic miracle! This would be an order volume for the entire construction industry, the electrical industry, the automatic companies, the local regional companies – that would be an economic miracle! We wouldn't have to speculate in the rainforest, but we could make something right in front of our doorstep. Ladies and gentlemen, do we not want to take this up? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Do we not want to present this Austria as a model country, with healthy, sustainable food as a cultural asset? Do we not want to present this Austria as a model country with energy sovereignty? Or do we want to continue to speculate internationally on the back of our people, our consumers and on the back of our health? I would like to conclude by saying: Christian Puscher, a nutrition psychologist, confirms that palmic acid is exactly the fatty acid that causes the greatest pain in the human body. But if anyone is sick, has an allergy, has a problem, then the butter fat, the pig fat, the bread and the healthy diet from agriculture on site are to blame. That cannot be the case, ladies and gentlemen. If we put regionality in the foreground, we will put people in the foreground, not globalisation, the sacrifice at the altar of globalisation and the corporations! - I'm asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15267	To answer the question, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15288	Madam President. High house! To the urgent In the first place, I would like to point out in a fundamental remark: Sustainability, product differentiation, quality orientation, innovation and entrepreneurial thinking in our businesses are the success criteria of the domestic farming family farms. The eco-social market economy is our guiding principle in Austria and is also based on fair trade in goods, and, Mr Steinbichler, Austria is a model country. The eco-social agricultural policy is the model project for the common agricultural policy. These include the European Single Market with general free movement of goods and trade with third countries with certain rules. A complete decomposition would be the wrong way for the economy in general, but also for agriculture and consumers. We need regional cycles as well as buying customers abroad in order to manage the fine food shop in Austria. The income situation in agriculture and forestry remains tense. The income, we know that from the Green Report, fell in 2015 compared with 2014 the fourth year in a row, by 17 percent. The price decline of agricultural products is due to the use of palm oil, but is not applicable and not permissible, rather it is the behavioural development of the world economy as a whole, cheap raw materials such as oil and a steady demand in certain countries and regions of the world, especially in Asia. As one of the main reasons for the current agricultural prices, the embargo against Russia continues to play its role as an important third country market for Europe and for Austria. We have shown support and support for our farmers in this difficult situation with the rural development programme and with numerous short-term relief measures, which are also negotiated and decided here in the House. I am actively committed to regionality and rural development. Therefore, my annual focus in 2017 is entirely in line with a versatile and sustainable rural area. However, we are not just setting up initiatives on the Austrian market, our agricultural and food industry is export-oriented. Export quotas, for example in the dairy sector, amount to 50 percent, in the food industry as a whole, at 60 percent. With the Best of Austria initiative, I have received international attention from Austria's top achievements, thus supporting the worldwide marketing of quality products. This initiative is also effective. From January to September 2016, the trade in agriculture has increased by €241 million, which is more than 3 percent over the previous year, and thus more than the remaining external trade. The growth in agricultural exports of €336 million is already three-quarters of the total export growth in external trade today and continues to be the engine of the domestic economy. On the subject of palm oil, I would like to highlight a few points before the individual questions raised in order to make the debate a little bit more difficult. Palm oil is traded under the WTO and EU legal framework. Palm oil intended for human consumption in accordance with CN code 15111090 has a duty rate of 3.8%, binding in GATT. If a change in this rate would be sought by the European Union – and only by it can this duty be increased – then, in accordance with GATT, Article 28, negotiations would have to be conducted by the European Union with the WTO trading partners concerned in order to compensate for the withdrawals. Indonesia and Malaysia are the world's largest producers with a share of total production of 85 percent. The use in domestic plants shows a clear tendency down, and it is again used more and more domestic butter. Biodiesel produced in Austria, which is also addressed, is not explicitly added to palm oil. The ecological compatibility of a palm oil plantation depends primarily on the form of management and the location. It is undisputed that palm oil plantations have an impact on the environment. In particular, the effects of land-use changes and the associated emissions of excipient carbon previously ground-bound are to be critically assessed. Let me now address the questions I have raised in detail: Question 1: In the last ten years, the trend of palm oil imports has declined. Palm oil imports fell from 60,000 tonnes in 2008 to 46,000 tonnes in 2015 – a 23 percent reduction. From 2011 to 2015, the share of refined palm oil was on average 95 percent. On question 2: In general, differentiated volume statements on the individual certification systems are not available to my department. In case of accidental biofuel imports, only voluntary certification systems recognised by the European Commission are used. Questions 3 and 4: Palm oil biofuels to be taken into account in the objectives of the Directive on the promotion of renewable energy, Directive 2009/28/EC, must comply with the sustainability criteria laid down in the Directive. Compliance with and review of these criteria shall be carried out through so-called voluntary systems approved by the European Commission. Member States have no possibility of questioning or checking the information of the systems, but Member States must at least recognise the biofuels certified as sustainable in such systems. Questions 5, 6 and 7: Mr Steinbichler, the answer is: No, no, no, Question 8: No, no, no, – A single entry of individual EU Member States is neither appropriate nor effective. On the question 9: No, no, no, – Such cooperation only makes sense in the EU context. Question 10: In principle, there are no mandatory monitoring systems for the application of palm oil as regards environmental impacts. Only for the biofuel sector, the environmental impact assessment is carried out in accordance with the sustainability criteria drawn up on the basis of an assessment of greenhouse gas emissions. The calculation methodology is in line with the Annexes to the Directive on the promotion of renewable energy. The calculations are controlled by the voluntary certification system approved by the EU Commission. They include control from direct land use changes, emissions from the cultivation of biomass, transport and logistics activities and the processing of biomass to final fuel. On the question 11: In principle, the use of palm oil as a raw material for biofuels from Austria is seen as very critical, since it certainly does not meet the original objective of the Directive on the promotion of renewable energy when European renewable energy objectives are met with problematic raw materials from third countries. On the other hand, it is clear that biofuels from palm oil can be very sustainable and can also bring high greenhouse gas reductions if the sustainability criteria formulated for these purposes are met. Even if the use of biofuels from palm oil from Austria is considered critical, Member States cannot reject these fuels as long as sustainability criteria are met. Questions 12 to 14 and 16: These fall within the competence of the Economic Area. We support the corresponding initiatives of the relevant competent organisations. Question 15: The maximum residue levels of plant protection products in food and feed were established throughout the EU by the entry into force of Regulation (EC) No. 396/2005 harmonised. The setting of limit values and the establishment of control programmes ensure high consumer protection. In Austria, the Ministry of Health is responsible for this. Question 17: Yes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15487	Thank you, Minister of State. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the maximum speaking time is 10 minutes. First of all, Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15518	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I start with a quote from Ban Ki-moon, who meant: “The days of consumption without thought are over.” Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this is a motto that should apply to all of us. Thank you very much to each and every one of you for standing up for this debate and being present here, because I assume that you have realized that this palm oil discussion is much more than just the discussion about a product. It is a discussion of climate protection, and this, in turn, is a discussion of refugee flows. This is about much more and also about whether our domestic agriculture has a future and how we deal with our own resources. These are the cornerstones of this discussion, if we want to put ourselves seriously and crediblely to her. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In a few days is Christmas, there will again be many candles from palm oil burning on the Christian trees, among which will lie many sweets or also hang on them. and palm oil will be inside everywhere. Many consumers will not know and have not developed this sensitivity yet. That is why it is good and right for Mr Steinbichler to take up this issue as a pioneer and to update us as a thinker on this issue. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The goal of all of us must be, and that is not negotiable: Urwald must not be further roded. We all have a responsibility to do so, and everyone has to make a personal commitment to each parliamentarian. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2011, many natives from Indonesia drove to Hamburg and demonstrated before Unilever because they said: You take us our country, you take us our future, we are being driven out – land gravebing in the worst sense. You weren't asked: Do you want to be replaced or what about your future? They were taken from the land, their existence. You have then rightly protested with signs such as: “(...) Land robbery for breakfast. ” Yes, we breakfast land robbery with Nutella, Biomousli, organic bars and many, many products, and we are not even aware because marketing is so successful and so good that everyone consumes these products with good conscience. But there are many losers in the whole series. They are the natives the losers who lose their existence, they are the local farmers the losers whose products are substituted. Let's think about ice cream. A few years ago, there was a barrage inside, now it is exclusively palm fat. There are many products that have been substituted, and there is a winner. There are those multinational companies that produce palm oil there and tax in those countries in which they have nothing to pay for the profit. These are the winners. Each of us, each one of us is losers, because we are moving climate change forward with this action, and we have to stop it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not concerned with condemning palm oil consumption, we are exclusively concerned with sensitizing ourselves. We want to know who benefits from all these actions and how they are cultivated – under what conditions. It cannot be that children have to work there, that uncontrolled sprays are being released, which have long been banned in Europe. We refuse to do so. We want a fair production that is in order for the workers to be equally accepted and respected by social, environmental and economic aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a small community in Sumatra that did not want palm oil to be grown in them. They all worked together to preserve the rainforest. What happened? – Nevertheless, the rainforest was raw, the work is done by children who are carried out with buses. The children have to work there twelve hours a day at 40 degrees Celsius, only to have cheap products. I say quite clearly to you: We don't want that! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What does the future perspective look like? – Germany wants to drive the biofuels up to 90 percent by 2050. The UN warns that by 2050 the area of cultivation should be doubled, and it is now already in such a way that every two to three seconds for palm oil production, an area of the original forest will be rowed as large as a football field. Now the whole thing is to be doubled. I ask you: Who, if we are not – we politically responsible – should turn to it and say that we do not want this system? I think that this is the responsibility of every single person sitting in here, who is responsible to the rural area, but also to his own responsibility. We have enormous problems with climate change, as it progresses further, all of us and the subsequent generations. We must stop looking away, we must finally look at the root problems and look for solutions together. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Steinbichler says it again and again – and that is, I believe, a solution that is absolutely in order –: It needs seal of quality that actually deserves this designation. That is, where Austria insists, Austria must be in it. The same applies to palm oil production: If there is a seal of quality – according to the motto: sustainable – then one must be able to bear witness to this sustainability, then this must actually come to the test and ensure sustainable production. We all have responsibility for the rainforest, we all bear responsibility for our common future. Let's finally see that!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15618	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15636	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's very nice that we're dealing with palm oil. I myself have been working in this context for about ten years, especially with a development policy and sometimes with an environmental aspect, and I see all the criticisms that have come here so far fully confirmed. I would like to start with the area where there is the largest amount of imports of palm oil into the EU, namely the transport sector and the conversion targets that are mandatory. I have always and also at EU level been committed to lower recovery targets. I also think it is good to see that the endowment targets for 2030 have fallen even further, but I also think that this is a compromise that would not be necessary at all, because I believe that in principle we must achieve greenhouse gas reduction in the transport sector by other means, for example by attracting public transport, which must come on time, which must be comfortable and reliable. I believe that there must be lower emission targets for new vehicles and that they must have other eco-classes. I think that hybrids and electricity are to be preferred and promoted wherever it goes, and I also believe that just under the health aspect, for example, cycling and walking should be promoted and more advertised. On the one hand, I think, must apply to every addition: first the plate, then the trough, then the tank, and on the other: If we could get through at European level to eliminate the mandatory conversion quotas, we would have imports of palm oil into the EU from one day to the next, from one day to the next, to 3.35 million tonnes a year. That would really make a difference. The transport sector is therefore very important, and, as I said, I am convinced that it is possible to achieve the Paris objectives without any addition of any kind of agrofuel. Secondly, to ecology and the role that palm oil plays there: We know that palm oil has about three times worse carbon balance than conventionally produced fossil fuel. On the one hand, this is due to the deforestation of primary forests or forests in general, on the other hand also to the drying of peats and peats. Both result in habitats becoming smaller and worse for humans and animals. A few years ago, during a holiday, I myself had the opportunity to look at me specifically in Malaysia on Borneo and there in Sarawak and in the area east of Kota Kinabalu, as there is real palm oil production and palm oil planting. There is an environmental protection law in Malaysia, which provides that a 50-metre-wide snow from forest has to stand along large river currents. This has the very positive effect for tourists like me that you can see Orang-Utan's pretty safe, because the habitats of Orang-Utan's are cut so much that they will build their nests directly, among other things, on the watercourses, from where they can be seen. But it's absolutely crazy. When you fly over there, you see these thin 50-metre strips and beyond endless monocultures of palm oil plants that pollute the water make it impossible to use drinking water, which contributes to the fact that indigenous people who have lived there for decades, for centuries, no longer have any habitats. I was in Colombia recently. Not only in Malaysia, Indonesia and Africa, but also in Colombia palm oil is now grown in the large style of agrogroups. Especially in Colombia, due to the weak rule of law and the non-presence of the state in many parts, this development is associated with deportations, with the killings of people who originally lived there who originally managed the country. This vacuum of the non-existent state is now taken by agrogroups. In this context, I appeal that, if we sign free trade agreements, we may consider what negative consequences these may have. The third area I would like to come to is the social area. The working conditions – slave-like people who have to work on these plantations, children who have to work, pesticides that are used where workers are not provided with any protective devices – are obvious, as are the displacements – I have mentioned the displacements in Colombia before – and land losses, but at the same time also income losses. People have no way of producing their previous income as subsistence farmers. There is a great internal migration, there are roots, there is a loss of culture, especially of indigenous groups, and there is hunger, because the ground for the original diet of the people there is missing. Although we have ILUC, Indirect Land Use Change – where wheat has been grown before, for example, where agrofuels are now being grown, the wheat cultivation area continues to migrate and rain forest is wooded for the wheat – this is theoretically a verifiable method; however, there is no good uniform reporting requirement with standards that could be understood in some way, nor is it really recognizable for consumers where what is inside, but especially where it comes from and what has to do with it. There are many countries that have a system of capitalization of nature that, for example, evaluate rainforest economically. Brazil is an example of this. There they say: If we grow plants for agrofuels in the future, for example, on an area that has been used so far, of course, which was also an important CO2 sink, we have to use and protect another land area elsewhere. But this does not do anything at all, because the benefits of nearby areas is also a question of the area and a question of proximity to people. If this is a newly protected area that is so far away that it would never be used, because it is not at all possible to bring the raw materials out from there, it is not a profit, but really only a maximum profit from natural resources and cannot be in all our senses. We know, of course, that palm oil is much more productive than rape. From a hectare of palm oil plants, almost 3.7 tons of oil can be produced, but from a hectare of rape plants only 1.33 tons can be produced. Clearly, the yields are much higher for palm oil, but that simply must not be the sole degree knife, because it is also about something other than yields. “Nolles wast an Wert hot, muas a an Preis hobn”, once a well-known Austrian sang, and he is perfectly right. The fourth area I would like to deal with is health. There is also a little example of how the devil can be driven out with the Beelzebub. It was useful and a medically good idea to see that it comes to the substitution of trans fats, but unfortunately it was an inventor for palm oil. Although palm oil is not proven to be harmful to health in cosmetics or foods, it is nevertheless such that the consumption of saturated fatty acids – and palm oil is such – is not in itself particularly healthy. That means it would also be important to have a truly uniform assessment for consumers, so that they know where palm oil and saturated fatty acids are inside. At the end of the field of development policy: Here I would like to refer to the coherence we have in the Development Cooperation Act, which is also set out in Article 208 of the Treaty of Lisbon. It is not only about our European and Austrian policies that we pursue objectives that counter the development goals, but – on the contrary – that we should actually make a policy that promotes sustainable global development. Palm oil is a good example of how it often does not happen. Not that it would be known to me, but it would be really fatal, for example, if there were export liability for companies making money due to palm oil production or Palmanbau. We should always implement the directive in such a way that the negative effects in the global south are as small as possible. I find it useful to think about a ban on palm oil in food, cosmetics and so on, because every second product that is imported into the EU involves palm oil in some way. We should think about prohibiting this, as we have forbidden trans fats. Transfats are negative and harmful to consumers. Palm oil, on the other hand, is very harmful to many others, namely producers and people living in the areas in which it is produced. That's where we need action. We could do much more to prevent land tombing, for example – for pension funds and some others, there are sometimes state subsidies – that there is no investment in areas or in products where land is tombing, which is often related to palm oil production. It would be a good opportunity to strengthen the obligation to take care of businesses and to create more binding directives on how human rights violations committed elsewhere can also be committed here in Austria. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] We would have the opportunity to do much about the second stage of the procurement law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15725	Ladies and gentlemen, you have to come to the conclusion that your speaking time has been exhausted. Member Petra Bayr, MA [[Continue]] We could also, with Border Tax Adjustments, protect local farmers from unfair competition. So I think it would be a lot to do. We will talk about the NFI directive, which would also be a means, tomorrow. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15763	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15784	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion that has now been held was very exciting, profound, profound, and I must say that I very much appreciate it, but here we have to highlight many aspects. [[Abg. Lugar: You all reported!]] The world is hungry, it's clear to all of us. The world's population is growing. The world’s population tends to be fed, cared for. [[Abg. Lugar: But we are talking about Austria! In Austria too, people are hungry!]] As we know, it was the sugar that had been absorbed into many households over 200 years ago, the people have worked hard to enjoy this sugar, and it has triggered a large part of the globality. [[Abg. Lugar: “The world is hungry, ” I write it down!]] In the discussion which has been held so far, we are on the same side on many issues, since we do not need to discuss at all, there are many similarities, but the contexts are complex. Mr Lugar calls in, it's about Austria. [[Abg. Lugar: Exactly!]] In this discussion, which has been held so far, we have been dealing with both areas, namely regionality, but also globalisation. I have understood this, and in many speeches it has come true, even in that of your colleague, who is here at the speaker's desk. That's exactly what this spa is all about: We need to find out how we move on. [[Abg. Lugar: Do it once!]] The urgent request made by you not only consists of the catalogue of questions, but also includes conclusions and demands derived from them. One of our most important tasks in policy is to keep making balances, to be balanced all the time. That is why it has been an exciting discussion for me, on the one hand as an environmental speaker, on the other hand as a representative of the rural population, on the other hand as a representative of the rural population. If I now make up the demands you have made here, the pendulum you have addressed would in many cases fall back by 180 degrees and would also have many negative effects on the environment and also on our farmers' farms, on the milk market. Let me sketch it or explain it! [[Abg. Lugar: That's where I'm excited!]] Leo Steinbichler has proposed replacing palm oil with milk fat as a whole. He said that there should or should be more cows on the European continent by 31 million. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Less...!]] You can calculate that. We would then be in over 60 million cows, which we could not keep environmentally friendly. Let us just think about the debate on nitrogen attacks or feed needs – we could not solve this in this way on our continent! Just think about how the circular economy would have to look! Let us remember that in production we would not only have cows in reproduction, but also bulls and calves, that in total the number would rise and then, of course, the question would be raised: What would that mean if we were to produce milk fat? It would be an even greater amount of milk to be processed in milk protein, which it would then be re-useable; and this would in the immediate future mean a radical price decline, which would make the farms mad in this form. So, as I said, we think and act balancedly! This example, as it was presented, would not be conclusive, would bring great disadvantages to our farmers. One thing we should also consider: We were in the market a few years ago, even as far as milk fat is concerned. There was then a high price segment, which affected the milk price, then the milk fat, the butter. But there have been groups of interests that have still cried out: More, more, more! It's got to get even more expensive, it's got to get even more expensive! – That was the point where palm oil butter replaced in the processing food industry. That was impossible for many then, so they said: Okay, now that that border's crossed, let's change! The step back, of course, was incredibly difficult. If we look at this story – it's not that old at all – there's one that called at the front, and that's Leo Steinbichler. It was at the time that he knew no measure and goal. I'm putting good faith in you now, but I think you had no knowledge of market rules. You didn't understand her! [[Abg. Brunner: Maybe we should change them!]] Again the balance! Let's not go back from one to the other, 180 degrees! [[Intervocations at ÖVP, SPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now, a few years later, we have the situation of the Quality Seal discussion. What you quoted there, Mr Steinbichler, is the quality confirmation of Austria. This has nothing to do with regionality now. Here it is confirmed that this product is quality in order that this product is approved for transport in Austria and that people can rely on it. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Do you find that...?- Oh, my God!]] Since we have the debate on internationalism and globalisation, another note – I ask you to think about it – is: I told you earlier that the world's population is growing. Mr Bayr said: On 1 hectare of palm oil plantation, as much oil can be produced as on 3 hectares of rape field or on 4 hectares of sunflower field or on over 7 hectares of coconut palm plantation. In order to meet the need, we would also have enormous land use. We must also take this into account. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right, we need to discuss it!]] If we are to conduct the discussion honestly, we must say: It's not true that the rape was pushed away from us by the palm oil. The raps has disappeared from us in recent years due to the discussion on neonicotinoids – so honestly we have to hold this discussion, so I would ask inside here for a moment! The cultivation has declined with us because we have enormous problems in plant production to cultivate these crops in this way. I draw the conclusions from what has been mentioned here today, and I say: Yes, you are right in many areas, but we must look at the context differently, we must bring them together. When it comes to the production of palm oil, it is about – and here the way has already been taken by many nations – demanding improvements in production and environmental standards, since I am entirely with you. We must call for the improvement of social standards, and I am not exactly on your own. However, we also need to raise awareness of regionality, namely, of the producers – and we have to knock on them and say: There you would have the opportunity to reach out to the local regional product! – and on the other hand, what we do again and again with consumers. The advantages of domestic production are clear, whether in the dairy or plant-growing sectors. We must point out this to people, we must also draw attention to the corporations; and it is up to us in the policy to indicate this direction, that I am perfect with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15948	Next, Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e15970	Madam President. Federal Minister! Palm oil, dear Leo, is big business, as you say. That would be so well described, we have already heard this in some explanations today. Dear colleague Höfinger! I cannot fully understand your theory that if more palm oil is imported, the milk price would still rise, and in return, if less palm oil is imported, the milk price will fall. I cannot understand this invoice, which is certainly not true, because if you replace domestic milk or milk fats with palm oil, then the price will be lost. There's just a competitive pressure, that's quite clear. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höfinger and Mr Steinbichler.]] Whatever the Minister has confirmed – that is, Europe and global action – is that there are tax reductions for palm oil. We demand that there be tax justice, because benefits for palm oil, whose ecological footprint does not deserve the designation – I think we agree – are simply different. Mr Minister, I am a little disappointed that you are saying: Palm oil – yes, you can't do anything, that's hold on the market now! – We are not actually doing anything in this area, and Austria is no sign. I would like you to try to use everything possible to somehow stop these unnecessary palm oil imports to Europe or Austria. There must be legal possibilities. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] They say that we can't do anything because it has been done in Europe or in the world, but I say that we can do one thing, and I believe that this is also happening in Austria alone, namely to try to improve labelling. The label then no longer decomposes the consumer from the responsibility. If the product clearly insists that palm oil is inside, and that is then applied, the consumer can freely decide whether to use it or not. In practice, what sounds so simple here and would simply be implemented is simply not given because no one seems to be interested in politics – in industry at all – that you make a clear product label. I have brought along two examples of how this works in Austria and also in Europe. There is this sign, probably some know. [[The speaker shall hold a panel with a logo with the title ‘GEOGRAPHICAL EXPENDITURE’.]] That is, protected geographical indication, p.g.A., which stands on some products on it. To make it easier to understand: For example, we have a protected geographical indication at the Tyrolean bacon. We have several products with this indication, but Tyrolean bacon is a classic example because it is easy to understand. It says: ‘Tyroler Speck, p.a.’ The consumer goes into business and believes: Ah, that's the bacon of Tyrolean mountain pigs! – Is it not, however, because in Tyrol there is simply no pig production to the extent that Handl Tyre bacon is sold, quite simply. The consumer is simply deceived on a legal basis. ‘Protected geographical indication’ means, in the case of the Tyrolean bacon, that the basic product, the bacon, can come from all the countries. He comes from Upper Austria, if it is Austrian bacon, but he also comes from Germany, he comes from Denmark – he can come from everywhere, and they can write “protected geographical indication” on it. The consumer is covered by law! The next brand we have here also knows everyone: the AMA seal. [[The speaker holds a panel with a logo with the label “Tested quality Ama quality seal Austria 012345678”.]] It is clear to consumers: local product, everything from Austria. – That’s not true either! We have processed products, sausages, embossed products and the like, these products also have this quality mark on them. However, there is the possibility for producers to add a third of a product that does not come from Austria. This also deceives the consumer. Also, we could simply change and make it consistent throughout Austria: Consequences of red-white-red, the consumer can recognize it! I have an example of another request from the previous year, of pigmeat and meat imports in principle. I don't know if everyone knows how much pigmeat Austria imports, almost alive and slaughtered. – We imported 205 million kilograms of pigmeat in 2011. In 2013, as far as the figures of Statistics Austria are concerned, we had an import of almost 190 million kilograms of pigmeat. And the answer to the question also shows where this pig meat comes from: Most of it comes from Germany or Holland, but it also comes from Cyprus, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Israel, New Zealand, Seychelles, South Africa, the USA, Bangladesh, Korea, Mauritius, Japan, Uruguay, Ecuador, Canada, China, India, Lebanon, Uganda and Vietnam. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Only in Vorarlberg...!]] From these countries we import pork, live or slaughtered animals. It can be quiet. That doesn't have to be bad pig meat, I say quite openly here, no pork must be bad. But the consumer cannot recognize it in Austria. Now I'm telling you: 190 million kilograms of pigmeat are imported to Austria per year. We're going to a supermarket and we're looking into the meat Vitrine. Nowhere on this pigmeat can you see a label. Where does this pigmeat land? – It ends up, and I say that here too, under red and white-red signs. Maybe not under the AMA seal, that can be already, but that could also happen in processed products, at least it ends up under all possible red and white-red trademarks that exist in Austria. We would like to ensure the freedom of the consumer and the responsibility of the consumer to ensure that the origin is marked on these products. It's supposed to be on it: This is pig meat from Denmark, that is pig meat from the Czech Republic, that is pig meat from Germany or Hong Kong – or what do I know where the pig meat comes from? And then the consumer can decide freely! This can be done by Austria alone. This can be done in the Ministry of Health, and this can be done in the interests of local farmers, Mr Minister of Agriculture. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach]] If we have this label that really shows this – without distorting competition, because I am writing about where the basic products come from – the Austrian consumer can buy what he wants to buy: either domestic products from domestic farmers and thus promote them, or if he wants to, the agricultural groups abroad, in Germany, Holland, what do I know, where. This also belongs to palm oil. This is essential for us, because it creates freedom for the consumer, but it also brings responsibility. If, as we are now doing, we continue to deceive consumers on a legal basis with a protected geographical indication that is not true, with a quality mark widely spread in Austria, which also allows non-Austrian products to be included, so that we declare pigmeat imports and generally meat imports so that the consumer cannot recognize them, then the policy bears responsibility for the farmer's death that we have in Austria. I would like to say something about farmers' deaths in principle: It is intended in the short term to say that it does not matter if so many farmers stop, we always get security of supply, because we are in the European Union. There is much, much more to farmers than food production. It depends on the cultural landscape we have to maintain – I remember tourism here; I remember the social life in the individual valleys. We want a clear product label, of course we want a higher taxation of palm oil, but we want, first and foremost, protection of domestic jobs also in agricultural holdings in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16042	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16064	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jannach has now made a relatively large trip to Austrian quality production and has mentioned some criticisms regarding imports. You can actually share that. I'd just make a clear statement, Mr Jannach: In the AMA seal you are of course right in terms of processing products, there may be a foreign share in the case of products that are not available in Austria, for example in the case of blueberry yoghurt, if domestic blueberries are not available in sufficient quality and quantity. But the fascination with AMA seal is a hundred percent from Austrian production. [[Abg. Steinbichler: No!]] That's fact! And if it were not, Mr Steinbichler, if that were to be revealed, it would be a checkpoint. And then you would have to block or sanction this operation. [[Abg. Diesner-Wais: Exactly!]] With regard to the labelling of meat, it is also true, but above all only for the processing products. With Wurst, you have mentioned it, you cannot rely on it, since there are no labelling rules for processing products, but for meat, pig meat, that is fresh meat, the designation of origin is now also regulated throughout Europe, it must be marked. - So much about the facts. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Eßl.]] But now I would like to deal specifically with this really interesting urgent matter. It is not the first time that Mr Steinbichler has brought the subject into the house, but for the first time in the form of a urgent one. Why is it so interesting to deal with these developments with the fat industry, palm fat? Ladies and gentlemen, palm oil and this type of production are the top of an agricultural iceberg, which has the globe in its grip. This is about commodities, it is about a financial industry that makes highly speculative and highly profitable on its back, as Mr Bayr rightly said, of indigenous peoples, at the expense of social standards, at the expense of environmental sustainability, with the cutting of millions of hectares of rainforest. Ladies and gentlemen, this can't be the same for us just before Christmas! [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] It can't be no matter if on the back of humans, for the damage of the planet, the destruction, the building of the robbery are driven forward. And it is really significant that we often do not perceive in our everyday lives where these products land. The colleagues also mentioned it: The candle production, the tea lights of the large furniture manufacturer are made of palm fat. It can also be with Christ tree candles, which are made of hardened fats, including palm fat. Bees wax candles are, of course, expensive, we know. That's all a question of price. We are already on the question of why such products may prevail. Mr Höfinger has also tried to address the question of price formation and industrial substitutes. Of course he's right: Where there is no designation of origin, these products are immediately substituted by cheaper raw materials, regardless of whether they are produced sustainablely or not. This is a profit economy, that is quite primitively capitalism, just as it works, as it is quite simply present on the market. These are big corporations. I just call one European: Unilever, one of the very big players in the European food industry for decades. And what has this group done since the 1950s? - try to replace butter with margarine. Margarine was always a product of which it was said that it was particularly healthy, that might be better for cardiovascular disease because there are vegetable fats inside et cetera. What do you know today, ladies and gentlemen? – That the hardening of these fats can lead to transfat acids has also been mentioned by Colleague Bayr, and that precisely these transfat acids lead to cardiovascular problems, namely massive. Over decades, this was simply a lie concept for the food industry. And who'd have to pay it? - The dairy farmers. Butterfat is a very natural thing in the kitchen, it is an excellent raw material of cows in the Alpine region, which hopefully – that's when it comes to animal protection, it's about food quality – can also be fed with green grass or grass on the pasture, so that high-quality products are created in the Alpine region, which we use in the kitchen, of course. That would be the command of the hour that we give it more space. That is how I understand today's question by Mr Steinbichler. Federal Minister Rupprechter, as you are not quite wrong about import levies, practical implementation of such measures is not easy. But I mention that the British are considering a sugar tax, that the Danes have also discussed a tax on fat at national level, and that there are national measures there and there, which, despite the European Union, are implemented out of the open and innovative way out of certain precautionary principles. Why should Austria not also make innovative progress in this area? Whether this is really happening about this palm oil tax can be discussed. But it goes in the direction that we need taxes on climate-distorting modes of production, which are now being observed worldwide. It is not true that this is just a subject because it is, so to speak, the personal passion of our colleague Steinbichler. No, this is a global topic, for example, it was also discussed in the Som-me in the “time”, in a German medium that you certainly know, with quite clearly the numbers on the table: 42 percent of the palm oil raw material is used in Germany in the agrofuel. According to European Union analyses, it is approximately 46 percent, almost half of palm oil is now in agrofuels, about 33 percent in food, mainly in margarine, and about 17 percent in industrial processes, in detergents, detergents, and cosmetics. So you see, it's not about – and that's what I'm saying – to push the palm fat out of the market, so to speak, that can't be it, and it won't be. But we should be aware of the risk that many of these products are now highly contaminated with pesticides on the basis of these production methods and can therefore also contain health risks. We have no insight into how these productions take place. A film really got this to the point: An essential sequence of the film “Landraub” is explicitly concerned with palm fat and palm oil plantations, and you hear the investors in the O-Ton talk about how great and profitable it is. And you see how sad the lives of small farmers in these rainforests are on the verge of these plantations. Once you see this, you can't say with a calm conscience: Palm fat is our meat! No, that is an ethical question, and that is also a question of global responsibility and fair trade, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] If the Austrian situation is now being illuminated – and we always say that we are so much better – then I ask you: Stay with the facts! You answered Mr Steinbichler, in Austria we do not use palm oil in the agrofuels. - Did you say I've been very careful. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: In production!]] – In production? - Right. You have now corrected this: in production. In fact, this is true: in production. Those plants that produce agrofuels from us make this from old fats, from rapes, from other organic raw materials. But we import 636 224 tons of biofuels, including hydrogen-hardened vegetable oils. And among these oils – you can read it yourself in your report, Biofuel Report 2016 – is of course also palm oil. See: That would have been right if you had answered that to Mr Steinbichler. That's what we expect from a minister! [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] If we are asking questions from Members here, please answer in detail how the facts actually are! We also have palm oil in the fuel. Perhaps the share is lower than in Germany – that can be said then – we do not produce it, but we use it, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the story. When a raw material such as palm fat is traded globally, it will always be extremely difficult to certify everything, control it all, and it is better to put back on regional cycles, to put more emphasis on the networking of European production areas in Europe, to see these cycles much more closely. A word on this international trade agreement: This is all more cynical, ladies and gentlemen. For a long time, it has not been a matter of the population, of jobs with us – that is being proposed. In reality, these are interests of large players, of group heads. We'll see it in the US now. Who's going to be a politician there today? – Everyone comes from the bars of industry and the financial industry. These are the people who buy whether they are at the front of the first row or in the second or the third row. [[Abg. Lugar:... the Raiffeisen!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem. We need more democracy, more criticism and a minister who gives us clear and detailed answers on the point and the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16181	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16203	Madam President. Estimated Minister Rupprechter! I would like to divide the subject a little: on the food palm oil and that over the energy donor. We've heard all kinds of things. Even now, new taxes were added, and a classical critique of capitalism was added. The focus of the Leo is man. I want to put his cow at the center. So let's focus his cow. It was so touching when you showed the picture of your cow. Maybe it's called Resi, Milka – or something like that she'll be called. [[Abg. Steinbichler: This is Liesl!]] If we put this cow at the centre, and your OTS with the argument, it needs a new economic miracle, and also 31 million new dairy cows – then I think we can imagine that there is a fence being built down in the Volksgarten, because otherwise they bite the rose sticks away. It may be that they are hungry. You need something to eat, too. Your cow needs a little something to eat – or to eat maybe because it's called eating for the Vegans. Imagine how many tons of methanes this means! Is that environmentally friendly? Is the food that the Viecherl, the Milka, the Resi or the Gentian also needs environmentally friendly? We need – and you'll guess right away – then soy. Where did the soy come from? [[Abg. Steinbichler: What does the cow need?- Oh, my God!]] Soy to feed or... – I don't know. I'm not a farmer. To the “fry cooked” duo Pirklhuber-Steinbichler, who now also talk about the fact that you no longer need palm oil in the kitchen: As a small host, I ask you – you two may be the new “fry cooked” cook: Then how do you fry? With butter? Is that all right? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Lugar.]] Is that all right? So I think you're also taking someone to the wrong ferry. It is quite interesting what we can do with Nikolaus-Alm-Oil. The Alm-Oil program really moves a lot and is also made really important. In this respect, it is completely illusory and therefore also a completely false ferry. [[Abg. Lugar: Palm oil brings civilization, or what?]] But in one thing, I'm right about Mr Steinbichler: As far as the agrodiesel is concerned, it is also worrying what is being promoted and, above all, what is done with crops, I am giving you the right thing. Only: Show an alternative, that would be nice. There are funding programs from Biosprit and everything possible, where you don't simply promote anything again and get out of it a pointless project. For example, why did we sleep in Austria – and I address the Minister for the Environment – the development towards Power-to-Gas? Why did this get your party leader, vice chancellor, the Minister of Economic Affairs, to sleep in his energy strategy? Don't you talk to each other? Or is something else going on here? There are already alternative power sources. There is solar, wind energy – there is everything. Only: While the Germans have a reasonable strategy – how is the energy buffered, how are the energy sources promoted, what happens to the excess gas? – and also to install appropriate facilities, this is completely lacking in Austria. In Germany it is especially Power-to-Gas in this respect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] - I'd like to explain later what that means. You don't deal with energy policy, so in that respect the ideas are just as harmful – please! For example, there is the wind-to-hydrogen system, a test operation at the OMV. Yes, something is done, but far too little. In Germany this is massively promoted. That would be something to get away from agrodiesel history. Not just yelling that the capitalists are guilty, that's all capital! You got an iPhone in your hand? And the Leo Steinbichler has palm oil on his shoes on it. [[Abg. Brunner:... OMV...!]] All contribute to this. And you always say capitalism is to blame. Christmas comes, the gifts come – all of us are in the same boat. That's why we should change a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16291	Next item is the report by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16313	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! I come back from the rather cynical, sweet words to facts and reality. Then: Also the NEOS will someday know that we all smell the same air and that this is not all just funny. We have heard very, very many facts in the discussion on palm oil today. I have looked at the fundus, I have a issue here; of whom, that is actually not quite decisive – rather, it is decisive, it is from the year 2010, that is from the beginning of 2010. We'll soon have 2017, that is, it's not all new, we know all of that. That's exactly where all the points are described very precisely, the photos of the Orangutans, of the workers, I really want to save you here, and that's certainly not the first issue in which the subject of palm oil is written. I'm just wondering: What has politics done since then? – Quite the opposite: They're going on like we all have a second planet in the trunk. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Palm oil in the biodiesel: Let's look at the numbers! I would like to remind you once again of the report. Not that we had at least kept the share equal, no, we have here simplified the addition of palm oil to biodiesel in the EU-wide since 2010. Now I'm wondering, Is that still normal? What else does everything have to happen? I do not want to put all the facts together again now. What really shocks me as a mother is – we have addressed the health issue – where most palm oil is inside, namely in the sweets. Who, apart from being very happy to eat them, is the target group of sweets? – The children; and of course they have a special hazard due to their development and body weight. Is this the responsibility that, not only in Austria, but also across the EU, has been dragging politics away for years? I would really like to thank Leo very much at this point. It is a matter which concerns each of us, no matter in which group it is, and no matter in which country it is. We're talking about climate protection, we decide laws that go a little bit in a certain direction, but before what happens every day, we close our eyes because it's just palm oil. So I really have to put my finger in the wound here and say: That's not how time must pass! It's really time to act here! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We know palm oil is the cheapest oil in the world, but at the same time we know when we look closer, it's the most expensive oil in the world, because it's about our climate, it's about our air, it's about working people and it's about our health. So it's really time for us to become active here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16367	Next item is the report by Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16388	Madam President. Minister! High house! I would like to thank Mr Steinbichler, which is really a very good and important debate that we are having today. At the same time, I would like to reject what Mr Pirklhuber has accused the Minister. He has really answered very well and very objectively, represented a clear strategy. I tried myself without getting out of palm oil in the early days. That's hard to do. So palm oil is in toothpaste, in muesli, in bread, in Nutella inside – that has already been said –, almost everywhere is palm oil inside. Also, you should not wash yourself with soap or wash the laundry, because there are also surfactants and palm oil inside. So you don't even get past that. What happens in Indonesia, Malaysia, of course, is really crazy, because, as has already been said, the forests, the forests, the forests are wooded every day in the size of 300 football fields, so that palm oil plantations can be planted. On the one hand, this results in very high CO2 emissions, making Indonesia responsible for 8 percent of global CO2 emissions and third behind the US and China worldwide. Just, ladies and gentlemen: Palm oil is a good product, because what is the alternative? – Soybean cultivation, sunflower seeds, that all costs much more space and is not a really good and sustainable alternative. Also what was proposed, namely that palm oil should be replaced exclusively by butter, will not work, as the food of cows and the emission of methanes would be enormous – and that would be anything but sustainable. What can we do? – We can raise awareness – in fact, this debate is also important here – so that the consumer can also see whether palm oil is on the product – this must be done in accordance with an EU directive – and you buy fewer finished products and cook it yourself. This is also something very important, which may also benefit everyone in a double sense during the Christmas season. What is also important is that we promote small farmers in Indonesia who build on land that does not have to be raw, so that we really promote and also train them. We also need to promote and promote brands such as fair trade palm oil accordingly, in order to increase the purchase of unrodden palm oil under human conditions. This is also in line with human dignity, as it belongs to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16429	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16450	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I would also like to thank you for today's debate. I think it is a very important debate because it shows very many different problems and also the connex that exists between many problems and challenges. The production of palm oil is a huge environmental problem. We have already heard that it is a problem for animal welfare, for the species world and especially for the climate. What has also been mentioned is that it contributes to a lot of human rights violations, land robbery. As part of the climate conferences, I met a lot of people who were affected by land robbery, who were affected by the expulsion from their regions, whose agriculture was destroyed because their country was simply used by corporations and wooded by rainforest, which could not produce at home and live from their agriculture. This is also a very, very important issue in international climate negotiations. In my opinion, therefore, this climate agreement was not only historically important in terms of climate protection, but it is also a very important progress and an important contribution in terms of human rights on our planet. [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] I have found exciting what Mr Steinbichler has said. We Greens always say that our actions here, so as we produce and operate here, also have consequences elsewhere and that we do not have to wonder when this comes back. If we destroy the possibilities that other people can live elsewhere on earth, we do not need to wonder when these people have to come to us at some point. It is our task, therefore, not only to help these people, but also to do everything with us in order to enable an acceptable way of life and economics, because at present we do not have that. I have already found that we are not far apart in the analysis of the problem. But the question is what we can do. Of course, it's a possibility that each and every one of us has to look at what you're buying. I would also like to appeal to everyone: Look at what products you buy, and consider the consequences of these products even for other people, in other areas! However, it is our job as politicians, consumers and consumers to help buy in a sustainable way by simply setting clear rules. This means transparency in the seal of quality, in the labelling of products. But this also means clear rules in our economic system and in the trade there are. There I am with Mr Bayr, we have to consider what consequences trade agreements may have elsewhere. I don't think anyone accepts it in Austria when a big farmer simply takes away a small farmer's farm and then says: It belongs to me, and that's where I grow! – Globally, however, this works and is done that way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Feichtinger.]] It is our job to ensure clear rules. The design of the new climate agreement will be very important. Austria is very likely to make a contribution. The protection of rainforests is an explicit objective in the climate agreement. Austria also plays a role in the regulations, which are counted and which are not and whether there are loopholes or not. I would ask you to do so, Minister, that Austria should be in a clear position. We need to see that the rainforest also gets a value and that we support people on the spot to preserve their rainforest because we all need this rainforest. Without the rainforest, climate protection will not take place. The rainforest is not only important for local people, it is important for all of us, and we must support these countries accordingly. [[Congratulation with Greens and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Bayr.]] Of course, we also have to do our homework, because if we say that there has to be a sustainable economy, then that also applies to us. Our economic system is not sustainable. If every person on earth lived as we do here in Austria, we need three planets. That's not going to work out. That is why we are still standing before the greatest conversion of our economic and energy system that has ever existed. I still do not believe that the Austrian Federal Government could not take any action one year after the entry into force of the climate agreement. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: It entered into force on 4 April. November 2016!]] – After the decision of the climate agreement! Minister, I hope you know the climate agreement, he's on 4 May. In November, it entered into force! – Mr Minister, I think you were there, you know the climate agreement just as everyone else here. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: “In force” you said!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Not in between, Minister!]] Where the trip goes is known for over a year. If you just look at what's going on in the world, it can be known for a long time. I would actually expect that from an Environment Minister. Austria is totally asleep in this development. We Greens have made several offers this year. For the new year, I expect us to crush the sleeves here and in Austria, in the sense of the example for other nations, to undertake this conversion. I'm convinced that if we do it properly, we'll benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16533	Next, Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16554	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I have followed the debate very closely, and the subject of palm oil – I am grateful for Leo Steinbichler’s theme and urgent question – is a serious one, but I already feel that the topics are extremely mixed there and that we want to press on the pre-Christmas tearing gland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Let us look at some of the things that have now come from the Green Group. All over the world, what the cultivation of oil palms actually means in terms of land use is criticized. One of my previous speakers has already put this right into the field: What is the alternative to current fuel consumption? – The alternatives would be rapes, sunflowers, so other plants that would all consume much more space than the palm trees need. [[Abg. Brunner:... that we get away from the present, that's not a solution?- Oh, my God!]] The second point you are putting into the field, namely the general critique of capitalism and the reference to free trade agreements, has nothing to do with palm oil at all. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] Palm oil is to no relevant extent part of TTIP and CETA. This was about dairy products, and it was about meat products. It wasn't about palm oil. [[Contradict with the Greens.]] But I would now like to come to the main point: What is also striking is that there are hardly any proposals for solutions. They come out here and tell us – whatever is true – we don't need an earth if everyone wants to live the same as we do, then we actually need three planets to exist. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] You explain that it is time for the train to take off – it will not actually implement international agreements – but you have not put forward any solutions. You said there were green talks. I should like to point out that we wanted to accept NEOS and were not invited. So the talks are very limited. I would like to add a few points to the discussion. One is the question of where the main problem lies in the European Union. Less than 50 percent are used as an addition to fuels. The volume of imports has increased since 2010 as a result of this situation. Although the European Commission has in itself recognized the problem and has also countered it by renewing the Renewable Energy Directive, it is relatively toothless because we currently have a 4.9% share as an addition to the fuels. It is planned to make up a maximum of 7 percent by 2021. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: 3.8!]] – By 2030 it is expected to go down to 3.8 percent. That is to say, the European Commission has not pulled the lines that would be necessary. The second point is the question of labelling, i.e. processed foods, which is already taking place. I know if I buy a sandwich or a bar somewhere, then the packaging says whether palm oil is inside or not. I have the problem that I hardly find any products in which it is not inside. But there is also the question of what the solution is. I have heard: new taxes, new duties, a ban. But what does it accomplish? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Competitive equality for... Products!]] – With the new taxes, we then limit trade between nations. We also have the issue that at the end of the day we will transfer the costs to the consumer, the consumer, but not really limit the import. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] There are sufficient examples that these duties and taxes do not work because the palm has so much higher yield than any sunflower and any rape that the customs could not be high enough so that you have an effect. However, I would like to add two more points, as I have just had a little more time to speak, to what we could actually do in Austria. If we know on the one hand that the main topic of individual traffic is the question: How can one get away from individual traffic, from the classical fuel theme? You can defend the government a little – rarely, but still – there. It is about electromobility on the one hand and power-to-gas – which my colleague Schellhorn mentioned earlier – on the other. Only in this way can we solve it. Although not enough action has been taken, at least the first steps have been taken. Another point – and this is still a complete failure, and we have talked about it more often, Minister Rupprechter – is the question of environmental tax reform or an eco-social tax reform. There are proposals – and there are, by the way, not the most market-liberal stakeholders, namely Greenpeace, Global 2000 and an association of German economists – that in the context of an eco-social tax reform, among other things, the effect of 17 400 new jobs, €5 billion for a non-profit tax reform, €2 billion reduction in wage costs at FLAF – we could use them well, as the government has already spent them without having implemented the tax reform accordingly – and seeing 3.6 million tonnes less in CO2 emissions. By the way, 74 percent of the population would be in favour of such an eco-social tax reform. There are extremely many measures we can take in Austria. The debate you are holding, which always comes across the level of morality and the suffering of people – which is indeed difficult to endure! – but does not lead to a solution domestically, and you have not brought these solution proposals again today.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16650	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16671	We have an interesting topic today. I would like to start with a quote, Mr Höfinger of the ÖVP said earlier: Palm oil, then: “The world is hungry.” – That is, the ÖVP believes that palm oil would be there to satisfy hunger in the world. If that were true, most palm oil would have to be exported to the Third World, but that is not the case, most palm oil goes to the First World, and it also comes to Austria! [[Call the ÖVP:False Statistics!]] The question is what this beautiful palm oil is doing in Austria and what we need it for. I brought a nice example, Leo Steinbichler has already shown it. [[The speaker shall hold a package with the label ‘PHase’.]] It says “like butter”, and then one reads – I like to read it to you – that there are all sorts of beautiful things in it, namely: vegetable oils, palm oil, what else, drinking water, then emulsifiers, so that this drinking water stays inside this brick – I can’t even say that what is inside it for emulsifiers – then other additives and, of course, butter aroma are included. What's this stunt for? What do you do that looks like butter that weighs as much as butter and tastes like butter that feels like butter, but is not butter? What do you do for? Now many will say that makes things cheaper. – No, that costs as much as butter! Do you know where the difference lies with butter? – That this product of the manufacturers, in this case Unilever, deserves 30 cents more, that is the difference! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] This is the reason why you use palm oil, that you use all possible stabilizers and all kinds of other substances – which are certainly not healthy – and a butter aroma: only to achieve a greater profit! Now we're right at the point: It is not about banishing the palm oil and pouring it out everywhere, but it is about banishing the palm oil wherever it makes absolutely no sense! If I buy something that costs as much as butter and tastes as butter, I'll buy myself butter. We sit on our Butterberg, we ruin our agriculture, our farmers, we weaken the domestic economy and, of course, the purchasing power in Austria – because this added value does not remain in Austria, but it happens in Indonesia or elsewhere, that is the point. Politics makes palm oil importers, in this case Unilever, the wall, so that the 30 cents per brick make more profit, and offers the domestic economy for it. I am not yet speaking of the global climate, of the local farmers, who are actually being enslaved, either. I'm just talking about the effects in Austria. We are losing value, and we are also losing something that you never take into your mouth: security of supply. With every Austrian farmer who dies, we increase the problem that in the event of a crisis we need these farmers in the truest sense of the word like a bite of bread. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They're just not there anymore – they're dead then, because you're allowed to do something that's totally stupid, namely, to make something that tastes like butter, what butter looks like, but it's not butter. On the other hand, the Butterberge are destroyed and the farmers are driven into bankruptcy. That's the problem. This problem also exists in other areas, such as ice cream. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] In the last few years, something has happened in the ice cream sector, which the consumer has not even noticed. Consumers assume that in the ice cream is the beautiful cream in it, the milk as it should be. I'll make myself home. Ice cream, ever since, I know how to do it, and what it all belongs to. In the meantime – and this started to an extreme extent about five or six years ago – all of this is substituted, you guess it: by palm oil! The fact that the risk of heart attack increases, that diabetes increases, is all evidence that this increases civilisational diseases is another question. The ice will also not be cheaper by seeing the prices of the last five years. It has changed that producers make more profits again. You'll do the wall again. – This is the problem we have. We have a policy that has just given up – it has given up and does not do what the consumer is not able to do at all. The consumer doesn't notice that at all. Do you think that when a single mother buys all these e-numbers, she can study all these ingredients and then weigh them against each other for five or six products? - She doesn't have this time. That is, the single mother, or even the single father, rely on us, the policy that we make the right decisions – but we do not. There is a good example, because many say that the consumer is a good person: If you throw a frog in 100 degrees hot, so boiling water, it jumps out immediately, that's a smart frog. But if you put this frog in cold water, then place this cold water on the stove and heat it slowly to 100 degrees, you know what happens then? – The frog stays in the water until it is dead! Please do not try – the children who watch: Please don't try! [[Call to the ÖVP: This has already been done by Mr Lugar!]] That's the point! The same way you do it with the consumers: The policy retreats, the profit interests of the companies are emerging. Then simply substituted, the consumer does not notice this, but has to live with the follow-up. That's the problem! We need a firewall, we need politicians who not only care about consumers – because that would be the main task – but also about the domestic economy, about agriculture, about the global climate and all the accompanying phenomena. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When we calculate all this together, palm oil is no longer cheap, as my colleague has already said, but it is incredibly expensive, because then the common costs come to bear! Of course, you can't completely ban palm oil, obviously you can't, but you can ban it where it doesn't make sense. I would therefore ask you: Be active, work for the local economy, work for the local farmers, and above all: Work for the health of local consumers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16752	Mr Steinbichler has spoken a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16779	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[The speaker presents a picture of the speaker’s desk, where an Orangutan with his baby can be seen in front of a reddish forest landscape.]] I will then turn the picture around to bring it towards the Christmas mood, but I would like to go back to the starting point of the discussion. These are these terrible pictures that we do not see that we do not experience, but I want to call a contemporary who has organized Safaris there for 21 years. [[pointing to the picture in front of you on the speaker's desk]] I had the honour of having his 61. Birthday to celebrate in Seewalchen. He said it's terrible once you've experienced these burns: 500 kilometers away just smoke, you can't see anything anymore, you can't breathe anymore. What's going on there has been discussed enough now, I mean. I am particularly grateful to colleagues who have recognised the subject – some have not yet recognized it. Now for Christmas peace: Since I was baptized by an Upper Austrian daily, the “OÖN”, “Palmöl-Leo”, we are now baptizing this cow Palmöl-Liesl. [[The speaker turns the image placed in front of him on the speaker's desk, and on the back there is a cow to see.]] I will come back later because I have noticed from Mr Höfinger that he can't start with the cow. But first to you, Minister Rupprechter, to your answer to the question, which was such a poor thing: You've really noticed the subject, you want to avoid it, you want to deal with it, and you're glad when this urgent thing is over! No, we don't want to shoot ourselves! I'm not supposed to let the Leo Steinbichler ask that Austria be shot off. – No, we want quality products on this world market, we want to supply quality products to domestic consumers. We want to be proud that we produce such quality foods, but not substitutes. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lugar: That's the point!]] While reading your report in the “Kronen Zeitung” I had serious concerns, Minister: We have an export turbo in agriculture, the exports have “tenfolded!” – How this goes you have to explain to us at the agriculture discussion. If ten farmers stop every day, we are, I think, world champions. I think you're talking about packaging, but not about content. In today's label arts, we will also manage to export palm oil products as Austrian products – from a very certain valley where even oranges grow, I think the smoke valley is that. Ladies and gentlemen! What are we gonna do? What else are we doing with nature? What else do we teach people? What are we gonna do? Mr Höfinger, or perhaps Mr Minister at first: You speak of an agricultural miracle, an export miracle – nothing came of it at the farm! We have prices like 40 years ago! 40 years ago – and 42 years ago, 1974 – the pig cuts around 59,90 Schilling were thrown into action, which are converted 3,95 €, and 40 years later we have a price of 3,99 € in the interspar. Where did the miracle of agriculture arrive? – For some speculators who do the Big Business, as colleague Wöginger says correctly. Now I'm with you, colleague Höfinger: You explain to me that Austrian production is bad for the location that we have too many cattle in Austria – that is the biggest thing at all! [[Abg. Hoefinger: You didn't watch that!]] Didn't you see what's going on? We don't even have Austrian veal, because in the farms dairy exchangers – the old farmers weren't stupid, they didn't say calf luck and calf pride, they said milk exchangers! – are fed containing 18 percent palm fat. Austria imports 90 percent of the calf meat from northern Germany, from large-maastries, where milk exchangers are fed only – only so that we know once how far this fraud spiral turns. It must be clear to all of us: That's where we've got a crazy catchup. There we are, quite far away from reality. There we are in the healing advertising industry, but that has nothing to do with reality, and there, to reality, we have to. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Minister Rupprechter, I don't want to address the biodiesel right now, you can contact the world house, they sent me an e-mail: ‘Palm oil: Out of the tank’. E10, the biodiesel with palm oil, is the wrong way. So reality is different than you did. I would really like to ask, ladies and gentlemen, here, that we implement this idea with taxes – with taxes, not with new burdens on farms, new burdens on workers and farmers – with a palm oil tax, as France already has, in other words, EU-compliant, similar to in the steel sector. The EU has also managed to introduce a protective duty on steel. I am convinced that if you say that the EU states do not even have a control right to certified palm oil, the EU unfortunately fails in this environmental field too. That's where I have to link up with my colleague Brunner: I mean, we need to read the climate agreement more precisely. I think we have very big mispassages in there, there we are just as far away from reality and from nature. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] You can see it: Since 1997, Kyoto, we have climate conferences, and the climate is getting worse every day because we are cutting 1,000 hectares of rainforest per hour. We are therefore tabling a motion for a resolution: I think this is simply EU-compliant and has to do with tax justice. Let us also introduce this palm oil tax in Austria so that we can take measures with regard to nature and sustainability, all of which benefit: the climate, the environment, health, jobs and especially our beautiful cultural landscape. Mr Sepp Schellhorn, one thing I would like to say to you: this Palm Oil Liesl has a hectare of permanent pasture. [[The speaker points to the image of a cow placed in front of him on the speaker's desk.]] It doesn't need any soya at all, because we feed genetic engineering free in Austria, we have Austrian genetic-technology-free milk. Permanent meadow means biodiversity, permanent meadow means plant diversity, permanent meadow is called drinking water protection. This is regional quality for all of us. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e16896	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17258	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are therefore voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues on palm oil and palm fat tax. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:54:48]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17297	I now take the negotiations on the 24th. Agenda item again. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17321	Madam President. Mrs Hammerschmid! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! From the palm oil debate we are going back to the teaching debate, which will continue now. I'd almost think it's going from one construction site to the other construction site, so to speak. So that the spectators can also know: The debate was previously interrupted. We are now discussing the Education Investment Act, the schools of the whole day, and I am going to explain the freedom of expression in this regard. However, I would like to predict that in Austria, we are putting a lot of money – this is a real pile of money, only €8.6 billion from the federal government – into the system school. In addition, nine federal states that invest millions in school, municipalities, community associations and finally also the parents who have to invest a large amount of money in the recovery. All of this, however, is not enough: We have results, we have evaluation results, so-called PISA results, which represent a real disaster. I would like to comment a little more on these results. Compared to 2012, we lost 11 points in the field of natural sciences alone. We are now in the OECD section and reach the place 20 out of 38 OECD countries. When reading a real disaster: 485 points – we are significantly below the OECD average of 493 points. With 485 points we reach only more 25 out of 38 OECD states. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is also frightening that the gap between risk students and top school students is increasing. These risk students are completely overwhelmed, unfortunately they cannot read God meaningfully, not write, not count. One third of our students are almost unable to read meaningfully. That's a real disaster! And that, although we put so much money into the education system. On the one hand, the gap between the educational weaknesses, between the risk students, and those reaching the top results, is increasing. Within the last ten years alone, the share of top students has fallen from 20 percent to 16 percent. OECD-wide, the average is 15 percent. What do these figures mean, ladies and gentlemen? – In 2006, we had about 18,000 students who were top school students and who did excellent achievements in the school. Ten years later, this number fell to about 12,500 students. I know that there are a lot less pupils today, but from 18,000 to only 12,500 students who achieve the top results – that is really shocking. There are countries that are much better off, in Slovenia alone, for example, there are 18 percent top school students, in Austria 15 percent – we have lost there. In Germany, it is 19 percent and in Switzerland 22 percent top school students. Again: It's only 15 percent with us! This is really a tragedy, especially considering that we are putting so much money into the education system. Germany takes in €125 million for the next 10 years in order to support the top students as well. That's necessary. We can not only focus on the risk students, but also have to take money into the hands of the top students. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we go back to the beginning of today's debate, the debate on Austria's economic location, on Technologisation, Industry 4.0, on the next revolution: Dear friends, how do we want to create this revolution if the share of our top students is only 15 percent? Mrs Minister, I have another question, but before that I would like to explain the position of the Freedom Party on the whole day school: Yes, we support the idea of a voluntary all day school – not a forced day school, but voluntarily! It should be possible for students to use an afternoon offer for learning, for a high-quality social contact et cetera – on a voluntary basis, not necessarily! In no way can it be taught in the afternoon, i.e. that this voluntary access to the school of the whole day becomes a compulsion. The moment we are taught in the afternoon is a mandatory all day school, and we reject it. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] It must be possible to teach children to read, write and calculate everything in the morning in the middle of the class so that they can read, write and calculate meaningfully after completing the school! And now, finally, my wish for the Christkind: This is a programme that has been set up financially for the next ten years, but, ladies and gentlemen, we need to change quickly, make rapid changes! A change that I will not be tired of pointing out is as follows: Please look at the fact that the children are finally able to practice more at school! Shading Please do the curriculums, take more time to practice in school so that the children and parents are not overwhelmed and have permanent stress! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17389	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17410	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Dear education enthusiasts! We are negotiating the Education Investment Act today. – This is a nice Ti- In other words, fresh money for education is being taken over here. This is basically a good news, because I believe we can save in many areas in Austria, where money is wasted, partly laundered, but at least we should invest in the areas of education, innovation and research. This is happening here, and I think, Mrs Minister, that the direction of march is also in principle correct, namely that we say that the offer of all day schools is to be extended further, and society has changed. We support this, so we will also support the law. We have widened the margin of discretion of generosity to find and say here to a yes, we support it. There are also, if you want to, points of confidence for you as a new minister. Of course, we also see huge criticisms and will now try to make the law better in a further run in the sense of the students, the students and the parents. I think we have to come back to the real meaning and purpose of education in the educational debate, which is so ideologised, because what is it all about? – It’s about lifting wings – we’ve captured it in a picture. It is about that we as human beings come to the world free and equal in dignity and that in each of us talents, potentials sleep. And then there are a lot of children in Austria where these talents cannot be developed, because there is no equal opportunity, so there are a lot of children who, with our current education system, we are bending, breaking and cutting our wings. That is, if you have children or children of your own, an infinitely sad picture when you think: In my child, talents, potentials, and they'll never see the daylight for his life. – This is a thousand times the case in this country, a hundred thousand times, and all of us must be affected and saddened. That is why we have to go back and forth to a successful response, and the whole day schooling offers are a successful answer. Unfortunately, implementation has only partially succeeded. What is our criticism that we are quite vehemently presenting? – That you, Mrs Minister, are still in the last Committee on Budgets! – have promised that you will set the quality framework directly and negotiate with the schools by giving the schools their answers on the ground and then receiving the release of resources in exchange with the Federal Ministry. But then, as usual, the princes of darkness came and bowed down this holdful purpose, and the ÖVP and the SPÖ had nothing to do with it. Once again they had to kneel before the princes, and this is a real misery in this country, also in education policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In fact, education policy is always understood as a policy of power, and parents, children, young people, teachers and teachers should stand behind. Education is power policy! The state leaders want to control with their party-political logic, and every maneuver is right for them. One third of the money has now landed with them and is therefore not given in the direct negotiation with the Ministry in the autonomous area of responsibility of schools. I think this is wrong, and that is the reason for our amendment. This is a second attempt, because it has unfortunately been rejected by the majority of the SPÖVP Group. [[Quoted print version removed]] What do we want with that? . We want transparency because the Court of Auditors has provided numerous evidence that money that flows into the federal states in terms of education flows into dark channels, and we never hear of exactly how it has been used. Information will also be refused. And then I read a great cover page of a large daily newspaper in Austria, namely that SPÖ chief and German Chancellor Kern says that we finally have to banish party politics from schools. Hallelujah! That's what the SPÖ chief says. If now the ÖVP chief agrees, I wonder: Who makes this party policy? . Both of you have made the education system a party-political event, and that is why here is a motion for a resolution in order to take a pulse as to whether the words are good or whether you really want to do so. Resolution Mr Strolz, Members of Parliament on party policy out of school The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Education, is invited to ensure that party and power-based access to the education system is maintained in the future. By means of a principle paper to be worked out jointly by the Federal Government and the parliamentary groups, the commitment to withdraw party policy from the school administration is to be defined and a package of measures to be followed. You can prove whether you are making foaming policy with headlines that are not behind it, or whether you are behind such a resolution. We have placed the obstacles at a minimum level, so everyone who really thinks it is serious will get over this obstacle. Whoever doesn't mean it's going to stumble over this obstacle. We'll see you soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17516	Both the amendment tabled by Mr Strolz and the motion for a resolution tabled by him are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17608	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Hammerschmid has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17629	Mr President. Appreciate Members of the House! I would like to focus on PISA together with you once again, because PISA gives us insight into our education system and expresses very well and very accurately the writing of the Austrian education system. PISA's opponents or critics are saying that these results of PISA also fit quite well with other test evaluations of education standards et cetera, so PISA is quite useful for me to see what the Austrian education system is all about. Well, the Austrian students cut off on average in reading, mathematics and natural sciences in an international comparison, which has already been said several times today. [[Call the FPÖ: Bad!]] This has not really changed over the years, you have to say that clearly. The risk groups, the risk groups of pupils who do not cut off well in the individual categories and disciplines, and the top groups are still small, are also unchanged. That means there is a need for action! There's no question at all that we need to look closely at that. Whatever PISA allows us to do is another look deeper into the system with regard to the question: How do pupils whose parents have compulsory schooling cut off when compared to students, where at least one parent has a university degree? – The result clearly shows that between students from socially weaker parents’ homes and students with academic backgrounds are 100 points! That's two whole years of learning, and that's 15! That is, as I mean, a really dramatic finding. The challenges are multiple, and clearly this shows us that education is still much too much inherited. I said at the press conference last week that this is an unacceptable finding for me, which is a finding on which we must work intensively. For me, on average, there is no objective, for me the goal is to make Austria comparable to the top countries and to equip our children and young people with skills so that they can keep up with them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you ask Andreas Schleicher – he is still the OECD Education Director and a real expert in education systems worldwide – according to the differences between the Austrian education system and the education systems of the really well-informed countries, then two topics always appear very strongly: The schools in the well-informed countries have much more autonomy, and all day school forms are the regular school there. [[Call the SPÖ: Look, look!]] – A very clear recommendation! The Education Investment Act deals very intensively with all day-to-day school forms. € 750 million will be used to expand all-day school forms. By 2025 we want to make it possible for 40 percent of students to attend schools all day, whether in restricted form or in open form. Well designed it must be, educationally innovatively designed it must be, that is the goal! We simply want to give the students more time in school to do homework and learn. This is especially addressed by those students who come from socially weaker families whose parents are unable to pay for assistance whose parents are unable to practice with the children, to do and to learn the practice. That is why the topic addresses school all day, about which it revolves, very intensively equal opportunities and equal opportunities for all children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We live in a country that does not have sufficient raw materials to sell it. The raw material of Austria is our smart heads! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We know that!]] [[Abg. Bösch: We've heard that for 40 years!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Mayer.]] It is the knowledge, it is the innovative power, it is the design power of our children and young people. It is about the future of our country, and that is why it is very important that we now promote and expand schools all day long. It's about the talents of all children: It is important to bring the weaker on board, but it is also a matter of identifying the talents, supporting them in particular, demanding them and promoting them. So it is about both sides, about demanding very good students, top school students, but also about giving the weaker a chance to learn, because it will come to each individual. That's why social staggering in the law is so important to us. That's a very central element. It must be possible that all children are able to attend such a school form, but we have seen very often that it fails because they cannot afford lunch – in a country like Austria! In my opinion, this is not the case, which is why social staggering is a very important issue in this context. The freedom of choice – because it has already been a subject today – is sufficient and at least given, for which I stand. We expect good, innovative, educationally innovative applications in open form, in restricted form. It must be good educational applications, because one thing I know too: It does nothing to simply extend school time, but it must be educational – as always – well and innovative. Freedom of choice is sufficient. In addition, the holidays can be addressed with the new package, we also thought about it. We know that parents face challenges during the holiday season. We also want to make it possible for the school locations to make an offer, especially if we expand the school locations according to the school forms all day long. We know that all day school means that there must be rooms for educators to teach attractively with children. This is about leisure opportunities, as it is about attractive classrooms, as it is about jobs for educators and educators – all of this should be made possible in the course of the package – and to use these spaces and infrastructure opportunities in holiday times is a command of the hour for me. That's not a question at all. We need to shape this whole day school form, which is, as I mean, the command of the hour, innovative and creative, and the teachers know very well what to do. I trust in her: They know what their students need to get on with, and I am delighted when we are going to be so far and can call on them to submit the offers, the applications – with the school holders, with the school locations, with the directors and, above all, with the teachers. There is a division in €250 million, which countries grant, but along this law – earlier there were 15a agreements, now there is a legal basis with clear criteria to be observed – and the €500 million that we have given directly through the ministry, also along these criteria. [[Abg. Stroll: Without proper evaluation, that's the problem!]] The evaluation will be my concern. I come from different working worlds, you all know very well, and evaluation has always been a key issue for me. That's how we're going to look very closely. It is about using the funds high-quality and making them together – in the sense of our children, in the sense of our youth, in the sense of our country – and about bringing us forward clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17755	The next speaker was Mr Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17776	Mr President. Minister! High house! Values See you at home! Mrs. Minister, PISA is a disaster, you have to repeat it clearly. I repeat it here today: The crucial value of this PISA study is: 31 percent of all graduates in Austria are risk students, and we speak of 2016. 31 per cent, Mrs Minister, and you come to the Committee and go over this subject and say: Now everything is clear, it is necessary to change education policy, because we have recognized that it does not work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] As a SPÖ minister, you say this after 30 years of red education policy with tolerance of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Keck:... Black-Blue...!]] In fact, we are faced with a slump of education policy, and this should be said quite clearly to the population. You should say sometime: Mea culpa!, and also acknowledge the guilt. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Keck:... Untruth...!]] What you're telling me, Mrs. Minister, we've been hearing for decades, and I'm old enough to understand. [[Abg. Check: Stand out the untruth!]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Keck.]] That's what we've heard for decades! I say it again: 31 per cent risk student! We spend €9 billion a year, 125,000 teachers, around 1.1 million pupils, one teacher and nine students – and then this result. And then make yourself up, Mrs. Minister, and tell you about the beautiful new world and what you want to do. We have heard this every year from your government, the SPÖ or partly from the ÖVP. The result is devastating, I say it again. Mr Strolz, you want to give the children wings. – Then take note – you are in the same ideological water – that our children don’t even have feathers! [[Abg. They have wings!]] They can't fly until they don't have feathers. Give them feathers first, it's ready! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayer.]] 31 percent of graduates are risk students, that is, they have basically lived their lives after school, who do not create a career entry. Mr Walser, what you are doing in ideological madness! – After all, it is an open secret that the majority of teachers are now either green voters or green officials, which can also be read by the Vander-Bellen supporters. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] And then you make yourself and ignore the result?! – 31 percent of children, those are hundreds of thousands, are lost, and no one has the honesty to sit down and ask: [[Abg. Walser: Because you are blocking the reform!]] What's here for 30 years – 30 years! – Was it wrong? Mrs Minister, I'm just going to put it together: What has happened over the last 30 years? – Countless, yes, thousands of school attempts, each time the announcement: With this school attempt, we'll solve everything now. Test rabbits were our children. Then the statement was: Clearly, children must be given early in childhood and kindergartens, which is the strengthening of the education system. – In the meantime, we already have two and three years of age in children’s cribs, and all have at least two years of kindergarten behind them. Result: 31 percent risk student. The percentage of migrants per class – you can say that loud and clear – was between 0 per cent and a maximum of 5 per cent 30 years ago. Now we have classes with over 50 percent of migrants. Result: 31 percent risk student. From the idea of performance to the fun factor: also a system of red and black education policy; Result: 31 percent. From conservative and value-oriented teachers to left-liberal modern teachers, the result is known. From the teacher as an authority person to the teacher as a cuddly teacher; the result is known. From classes with a large number of students – over 30 students were in the classes earlier – to classes with a few students; the result is known. [[Abg. Walser:... big classes! That's interesting!]] From low cost per student to constantly rising costs per student; the result is known. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] And something else: from a manageable curriculum, especially computing, reading, writing, to a completely overcrowded curriculum. And finally, the most important thing: from a former equal opportunities in the education system to an elitist education system. – You have everything to do! And now, Mrs. Minister, come here and say: We have found the stone of the sages – the all day school. It solves all the problems. We'll get everything under control now. – The whole day school does not solve any problem, especially for the 31 percent, Mrs Minister. [[Abg. Jarolim: I used the whole day school very much!]] I told you in committee: The cost, you should say, will be between 150 and 200 € per month. Which parents from this risk group should pay for this? - No one will. [[Abg. Keck: Then do the school!]] I come to the conclusion: A misunderstood ideology and, above all, the interests of the teachers' union have led hundreds of thousands of children in Austria to the social adversities. This awareness must finally bring about a change in the school system. It must focus on the child, the student, and it is important what comes out at the end of the school career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17957	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Strolz, spoke on an actual correction. You are aware of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Klubobmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e17981	Mr President. For the actual correction: Col. Worm has claimed that NEOS want to give the children wings to the students. - That's wrong. In fact, the children have wings, which is our conviction that they cannot lift them in our system. [[Abg. Hafenecker: This is not an actual correction!]] We are far away from a...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18008	Mr. Klubobmann! This is a speech and not an actual correction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] It is about correcting a matter, not about giving an opinion. But please finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18029	Yes, so the facts are... [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Three years we didn't understand!]] – There is then a private body outside with the permission of the president. The facts are as follows: It is not about giving wings, but about the children lifting the wings. And that is a big difference, Mr President. I think that's... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – We are going to make two of the private bodies, probably to third with the President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18076	Thank you, I don't need anyone. [[Cheerfulness of the President's head.]] [[Abg. Stroll: You have read my book!]] Mrs Kuntzl will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18115	Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr Worm spoke, I realized that the unword or the word of the year, I no longer know it, is “post- factual”. Your speech was a contribution to understanding what is meant by that, because if you are talking about a huge pile of shreds when you talk about the Austrian school system, it is already very far away from reality. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Of course! That's the numbers!]] I think that we all agree, as we are sitting here, that we need a lot of reforms and we want to take them step by step. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Then talk about it further!]] Talking about a sniper pile is really exaggerating at Weitem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many qualified people who consider themselves to be in Austria are one of the arguments that there is a good public education in Austria. Yes, it is in need of improvement to work on it, and we are taking a big and very important step today. All experts who are concerned about how society is developing in the future and what action is needed say: Investment in education! – We are doing this today to an extent that we have not done this in recent years. We can take in € 750 million to set up an extremely important measure for the next few years, namely the whole day school. This is an important step towards achieving international standards. Please make sure that you call this an ideological measure! On the contrary: This is a measure, an important contribution to achieve international excellence in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Self-knowledge would be appropriate!]] It is not the only necessary measure. Of course, this is not a magic wand, but an extremely important step that many parents have been waiting for for many years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] If you think about how much the cost of after-care the parents have to pay, how much that burdens the family budget, how much this is not possible for children who come from small-income parents, this shows that it is important to take the step so that learning, practicing and making fun is done in school. This is an important step towards greater equal opportunities in our schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18203	Next, Mr. Dr. Däderle will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18224	Mr President. Mrs. Ministra! High house! In fact, I am once again shaken by the incredibly negative attitude shown by Mr Strolz, but also by Mr Walser towards the federal states – the “princes of darkness”, who are the country’s princes, as the most severe quote from it – and that they do not see that, of course, it can be beneficial if some of the funds that we now provide for the day-to-day school are given on the spot and from a closer perspective in the countries. This permanent downgrading of the federal states and, above all, the national leaders is already amazing for me. Once again, I strongly reject that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What amazes me with Mr Strolz and also with the statement of our Federal Chancellor yesterday is the illusion that party politics can be banished from school. Education policy is always essentially party policy, because it must always be ideologically well-founded and cannot be different at all. That's been the case for 2,500 years. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strolz and Mr Hagen.]] Education is always ideologically based. [[Abg. Strolz: But Karlheinz, please! Don't be naïve now!]] If you know the dispute between the Sophists and Platon about education and the subsequent educational history, you know that... – No, no! [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Strolz: But Platon was not a union member and party member! Please!]] Party policy in the form of ideological policy always plays a role in education. We also see this in the current debate. Of course, one can also put ideological motives under the profession of all day school, because of course it goes in the direction of more public or state influence on education and, so to speak, in a direction which we in a harsh form already in the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website In this respect, one can assume that all day school. I'm not. I only warn against putting too great expectations in them, and repeat that it was not just Prof. Hopmann, but that there is a wealth of insights that say that the school of the whole day only has certain successes in certain circumstances – it does, and the hope that it is put in doing so, especially for children from non-educational shifts, is not unwarranted. But she must have the same quality and be careful about what you, Mrs Ministra, have said quite correctly. Then she can perform compensation; otherwise she does not. There are, as has been said, large-scale studies, such as in Germany, which do not have any effects at all, which even say that in the whole day school, if it is restricted, there can be less education than in the half-day school, because the teaching time then disappears in favor of other activities. So you have to be very careful and use this lot of money we use properly. Then there will be some successes. Finally, I would like to say: I do not believe that we should necessarily focus on the top countries at PISA. If one reads what some children in these top countries have to suffer – I have just read a report from the “South German newspaper”, which is taking place, for example, in South Korea or in Japan, where there have already been entrance examinations in the better follow-up schools – if you know all this, one can also see that children are taken from childhood, and they are also taken from the must and the spaces they need to be able to develop their personality. “Scholé”, the original concept of school, means in Greek, after all, must, and creative musts, and that is exactly what the children need – and not a whole day’s hard training.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18298	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18319	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The report of the Committee on Education deals with the development of the whole day school. Thus, all day school forms will be sought from the first year of school. On the part of the federal government, € 750 million will be made available for this, although this school form will not be possible for all. Undisputed is: Education is the basis of the further life course. The full day school from the first year of school, however, also means the withdrawal of family warmth and family influence. Education is primarily to be left to parents and not to be controlled politically. Also to be addressed is the financialability of the food and care provided by single parents or by families with low family incomes, which do not or do not fall within a support scheme. The high and ever-growing share of pupils in non-German native languages leads to a general drop in performance. PISA speaks a clear language. The school of the whole day from the first year of school appears to be a commitment to integration and education – at the expense of families and their own education. This reform is not a reform to improve the situation in general. Do we want to ensure a family-based education, education and future to our children, or to allow them to be controlled by false political regulations? - That's what I'm giving you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18362	Next, Mrs Mag. I'm talking about Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18383	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In principle, we welcome the idea of the whole day school. Every child has a right and should also have a right to all day school. However, the fact is: Do all the kids have it? Do all children really have the right to a whole day school? Do you really get that all? There are differences. There are children who are chronically ill. There are children with support needs in the focus on learning. There are children who need more time when writing. There are children with disabilities, children with mild disabilities, children with severe disabilities. There are very, very many different children. And there are also two different systems. I mean, we can't talk about inclusion, but it's rather an integration, and we still have special schools. What is shown in the budget is that simply invests in both. And what's going to flow into all day school for these kids is not transparent enough. It is always said: There is freedom of choice. But is it really given? Is there freedom of choice for the parents of these children? – Often it is so that parents cannot decide at all or can not choose school at all, because there are no possibilities. You need to find a school. You have to see that your child is taken up somewhere, and these possibilities are very limited. Freedom of choice? - Not really! Parents have to go where integration exists, wherever they can be found. How does the school of the whole day look for these children? Will they and can be cared for in the afternoon? Is there any staff? What about the equipment for these kids they need? What about the teachers? Are they sufficiently trained to take care of these children even in the afternoon, in the leisure et cetera? - All these things are still open. Children from the age of 10 do not have a right to afternoon care or to school all day, and the question arises who will suffer. In principle, I mean: All day schools, yes, but also my colleague, Harald Walser, has already tabled an amendment because it is our goal to give all children the opportunity to attend a whole day school so that the children whom I have already listed can also attend a full day school have a place and are also well cared for. The question is: How will this prove in practice? – I fear that many people will come back to us and complain, and we will come back to you with the complaints. You, the government parties, will also receive complaints from these people, and you also know that not every child and every parent and family system has been taken into account. These people will also come to you and say: They do not take into account what we signed, and that is the UN Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18434	The next speaker is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18456	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Let us remember an event that is very contrary to today's bill, in 2003 under the then Minister of Education Gehrer! Mr. Worm is not here now. [[Abg. Peter Wurm is waving the speaker from his seat.]] - Yes! – Until 2007, Minister of Education Gehrer was at work... [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Is also SPÖ with the ÖVP!]] - No! [[Objection to SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Have we both experienced!]] In any case, in 2003, she proposed a reduction of two hours per school year in class. The students were longer in school at the time, had more time for the particular material, and they were able to get some success experiences that they also needed to be satisfied. Due to the hourly cuts by forks, the substance had to be compressed and shortened in the compartments. This caused a lot of stress in the class, which also caused a worse climate for students, for teachers. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: By the goers?]] And now my PISA question to my colleagues: Ten hours less in class – does it bring more education or less education? Therefore – I do not expect an answer anyway – it is very important and welcome what our Federal Minister Sonja Hammerschmid has set in motion: € 750 million for the expansion of the whole day school. However, this is linked to certain quality criteria. Of course, that's where the inclusion falls. There, children with disabilities are also taught and come to their form of education and education. The restricted shape is also preferred. Even the Farmers' Federation has already come up with the fact that the rural area also needs all day schools, which I also very much welcome. [[Intrusion of the Abg. El Habbassi.]] It is also positive to mention that the freedom of choice is given, and there must be a full day school, also in restricted form, with afternoon care within 20 kilometres. Money is also provided for holiday care – the Federal Minister has already mentioned it. Because of the time economy, I can only speak now in keywords. The social staggering in the care contributions carries the Social Democratic manuscript, and this is also welcome. As a teacher and education politician, I can agree with this law with full enthusiasm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18546	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18567	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The Education Investment Act will extend school forms throughout the day and will ensure freedom of choice. We have also discussed this in the Committee. It is important to me that this freedom of choice also exists for children with disabilities, because at present there is no real freedom of choice for them. If the special school offers an afternoon offer and in the inclusive, inclusive class in the regular school no afternoon care takes place, then this is no real freedom of choice for the parents. So there must also be teachers in the afternoon who teach disabled children. If new buildings are built and new facilities are created, they must also be equipped with accessible access. I ask you to take this into account and to look at it, even if you say that this is happening anyway, because in practice, unfortunately, it is often forgotten. I would like to address another issue that has also been discussed in the Committee, namely the integration of children with chronic disabilities or with care needs. It is important that for children with disabilities, for example, who need insulin injections or who need to be fed over a stomach probe at lunchtime or need other assistance, this help is provided by the people who are in the class, so that for example, it does not always have to be an extra nurse in the class, because it stigmatizes the children when a hospital-like condition prevails. This also comes extremely expensive and is not necessary. It is more useful if the educators can do this on a voluntary basis or if the school assistants, who are financed by the federal government and by the countries for disabled children, can carry out these care activities if they have been trained accordingly and these activities have been delegated. This works with personal assistance, which now also works – we have regulated this in the Health and Hospital Care Act – in disability facilities, and this should also take place in the school. Among other things, it is about the fact that the educators are also adequately insured so that they do so in a voluntary way and are not being punished with it. In order to reorganise this, it would be important to set up an interministerial working group between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and to discuss it with affected parents and to establish a legal regime here. That would be my wish for the Christkind and my wish for the Minister of Education. In the sense of human dignity, such a regime was also part of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18605	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18626	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! A system of education has an incredible importance for development a society, the development of citizens and knowledge in a society. That is why we are now taking a first step towards a more modern school system that meets the demands and requirements of the Education Investment Act. First of all, it must be said that the expansion of all day school and all day school forms – in restricted form as well as in the afternoon care – is not an Austrian novum, but is already going and going on in a variety of European countries, in every facet, in every expression already exists, and for good reasons. The whole day school does not take away anything, but it has an incredibly great added value for all the groups involved. It does not take the parents their right to educational work and to educational opportunities, as Mr Dägenle said in the Committee discussion a few days ago. If you really believe in this argument and if you really intend to give parents more education, then I would be delighted if we wanted to achieve a reduction in working time with full pay compensation, because that would really be a support for families in the sense of creating more family time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The school of the whole day is not only an offer for parents in terms of care but also, in a restricted form, also offers the opportunity to compensate for deficits, to promote talents and potentials. The whole day school is a mechanism for decoupling social origin from educational success. It is intended to give parents the opportunity to save themselves summaries of funds for recovery, because in the whole day school and especially in the restricted form, it has been proved that those students who attend these school forms have only a small need for remedial assistance. It takes children who are not lucky enough to be able to grow up in stable and organized families, where the value of education may not be that needed for them to exist internationally or to meet the requirements of today's times at all. What's very important to me is: The expansion of the whole day school must be seen as an opportunity to finally include the including school. That is, in this area too, it must be possible to develop concepts in order to enable the visit of school forms throughout the day for those children who have special needs. The funding now available under this Education Investment Act does not remove anyone's freedom of choice to decide whether to go into a full-day school form or not. What we want to achieve is to raise the extent of the offer to 40 percent – which is also a greeting to Lower Austria, where it has been criticized that the horde would be abolished. If we want to cover 40 percent, this means that a large percentage, the remaining portion of the cake, still needs to be covered so that work and family can be combined, in the form of afternoon care or horten. What we need to do now is to create the conditions for developing pedagogical concepts, creating learning places for the pupils and workplaces for the pedagogists that are absolutely necessary. We need to move a little further in the education system, and I therefore ask you to go there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18682	Mr El Habbassi has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18704	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What we are talking about today, I believe, has already been discussed in detail: 750 million €, which we want to put into a quality expansion of all day school forms, with the aim of strengthening our educational landscape and creating an additional new offer. It is not a question of whether or not we want to take care of people, but rather of creating opportunities for young people by offering a different form of schooling, one that will also enable support and education in the afternoon. What is very important to us as a People's Party: This can't be a one-way street. What must be guaranteed for us is freedom of choice, which is important to us, and this is also included in it, because the parents and students as well should still have the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they want to use a full-day school form or not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if I hear Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber's word "reduction of working time", I must tell her that this has relatively little to do with education policy. [[Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber: Family time to promote!]] – To promote family time is beautiful and good, and there is certainly a way to work less, only in politics we have no influence because the companies decide whether to make the time available, or the employees themselves, whether they want to afford it financially or at all. It is important to us that there are these offers, and I think we should clean up with this March that a school form of education and the quality of education has a significant impact. That's just back and front not right! This is a Mar, which is constantly being tried to present them here as correct, but which is simply not true. All experts say: It is really crucial that there is a person – whether this is the pedagogy or the pedagogy, whether that is the parents, whether they are grandparents or perhaps anyone else – who cares for the child, helps him to develop, helps him in homework tasks, which also looks at that there is a certain discipline and the child also does the tasks assigned to him. So taking care of the children, that's really the decisive thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] It's not about all day school, and it's not about whether it's an overall school, whatever's being put into the room again and again. Let us stop seeing school forms as an indicator of quality of education! [[Abg. Walser: No, because it's wrong!]] What is important is what the educators do... [[Abg. Walser: It's such a nonsense, Mr. Colleague! I'm sorry, but I'm really in pain.]] - No, that's no nonsense! Mr Walser, you know very well that at the end of the day it is about whether the educators have the opportunity. And with the expansion of the school form all day, we want to do exactly that: the possibility that there are more educators, the possibility that more spaces will be created in the pedagogy. This is exactly what we are talking about. [[Abg. Kogler: You also play football in a stadium other than on a Kukuruzacker!]] That's why, I think, it's a good thing, and I'm sorry that you're trying to get back from the opposition with bending and breaking to find something you can make bad about it. [[Abg. Walser: We agree with the pain of the belly!]] It is good to invest in education, it is good to invest in school forms all day, and it is important that all of them ensure the freedom of choice of teachers, parents and students, as well as their participation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18821	Next: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18842	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mr. El Habbassi, dear Asdin, you talked a little bit more enthusiastic about the whole day school package two weeks ago than we were in the program “60 minutes of politics”; you looked at it a little bit more from the perspective of children and young people and not just from the perspective of the pedagogists. It doesn't matter! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, education from a child's point of view should be our political decisions. It doesn't always do that, we have to be honest. And we don't always automatically ask what the largest affected group wants. We of the SPÖ have done this in the context of an event where we have asked children and young people: How do you imagine school? How would you draw school? and we got the following answers and pictures: They want to learn something new, to have fun, to spend time with friends, to have lunch with friends, to do sports, to get to know music, to draw, to paint, to be creative. That is, I think, a very beautiful idea, a very beautiful picture, and exactly this idea we are really coming closer with the € 750 million that we decide today for the expansion of all day schools. I think it is very important to meet the wishes of the children as well. The whole day school will make it possible for all children, and if we speak of all children in the SPÖ, then we clearly mean children who have a disability because we not only dream about the school but also work on it. That's important to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It should be possible for all children, regardless of whether parents have money or not, to learn a musical instrument, for example. We have great music schools in Austria, but they are often extremely expensive. We are now ensuring that this is also possible in the context of the school in the future. The whole day school also realizes a school without backpack. That is, you do everything in school, you come home and you don't have the megastress, whether with tasks or with learning or also with your parents. I think that's really a great story for kids and young people. All the less so, to be honest, I can understand these attacks, or even these panics, in part by colleagues of the FPÖ, which is nothing unusual, in part, but also by ÖVP country politicians. I am really annoyed that there is no focus at all on children and young people. That is why: Let's all get a back – I'm glad that the Greens will go with us today – and let's agree that the pictures of school that the children have drawn can be helped a lot into real life! Thank you. [[Abg. Peter Worm: The Greens always go with you!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18892	Next: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18913	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Some have already done so, but I believe that it cannot be emphasized enough, so I would like to do so again, but it is not natural that of these billions 250 million go into the field of science and research and flow 750 million into a very important educational policy project, outside the budget, in addition financed so that one can actually set a visible sign; and I am pleased that there are also NEOS and the Greens going along with us and putting this common signal with us. Yes, this is an important and correct step! What hurts me a little bit is that we went on with our colleagues from the FPÖ, Rosary, Worm and Hauser, because we agreed: The child should be at the centre! And if it really matters to you that the child is at the heart of you, if you want to see what we can do for what actually helps the children, those who need it, then you agree today! You know, the children we're talking about, the 31 percent in this risk group, don't get any help because they can't afford it at all! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But they don't get all day school because it's too expensive!]] It is about the parents giving the children re-help so that they can have good grades in the public school and thus go to the gymnasium. This also involves many other problems. If you really want to do something for these children, then you agree to this law today! It is true that the colleagues of the ÖVP have also said, although not all of them; My colleague, Mrs Dendeme, said – I wrote it down – that he would not want to have a full day's hard training. I can only say that he does not know the principle of a restricted common school, because the very opposite is the case, and you know that, Mr Denke, I am referring to you. Just the opposite is the case with a restricted all-day school, because with it these children have exactly the opportunities and opportunities that all the other children have who have a parents' home that they can well care for and well care for. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Walser.]] And we want to do that! We want the children to have the opportunity to take advantage of leisure, cultural, social offers during the day, while also making the learning progress they need to read, write, count, and also maintain social contacts. This guarantees a limited all day school. That's why I'm inviting everyone to vote for it, because: In fact, because not to vote means to move the child to the side.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e18961	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 1360 of the Supplements. The following amendments were tabled: Amendment tabled by Mr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues, Amendment tabled by Mr Walser, colleagues, and Amendment tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues. As always, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments mentioned, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning § 2. Who is in favour of this amendment? – This is the minority and thus rejected. At once, vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Government's proposal. I'm asking for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Dr. Walser, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning § 3 and § 4. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Government template. I'm asking for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Dr Strolz, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning § 10. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Government template. I'm asking for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal, will be taken. Who agrees? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in third reading for this draft law to give a sign on this matter. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues, on: Party politics out of school. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[18:00:30]] 25. Point Report by the Committee on Education, Research and Technology on the proposal from Members of Parliament for 1914/A(E) Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues in the field of digitalisation (1409 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19093	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19117	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Before I go into the item on the agenda now before the debate, I would like to make a brief replicate of the previous debates. There has been a great deal of excitement about our speeches. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a request whose content was that the whole day school should be attended on a voluntary basis. I don't understand the excitement! Colleagues Kucharovich and Colleague Holzinger, if you suggest that the whole day school does not take away anything, then I have to answer: I am the father of three children, you have to allow me to be happy if I have the option in the future, whether I can care for my child myself in the afternoon, if I have time if I have the conditions, or not. This is my most personal decision, and I do not allow myself to take this most personal decision either through a political goodwill or a decision by SPÖ, Greens, NEOS and so on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a parent, I want to decide for myself what I do with my children in the afternoon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] – Of course! And, please, be careful and read our amendment again! – Of course, there should be the possibility to attend all day school. And of course – we know that – this is a necessity for many. We always say that! [[New call of the abg. Kucharovich.]] There are parents who have to work because income is not enough. Of course, these parents do not have the chance to teach their children at home. Of course, these children should also have the same opportunities. And for these children, all day school can be an important institution. Of course, we said that! But, please, what do you always have against a freedom of choice? – We want to decide for ourselves or the parents should decide for themselves what is best for their children. If the children want to attend all day school, they will also get through it. That's not a problem at all. But leave the right of self-determination to those concerned, both children and parents! [[Further call of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] Parents usually know what's good for their child. And as the father of three children – and I am always confirmed that our children are well-favored children – I do not let myself take the decision of what is best for our children. I am not allowed to accept this from SPÖ, from parts of the ÖVP, from the Greens and from the NEOS. Here must be stop! I would like to assume that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the application concerning digital education. We shall also put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject. Of course we are for digital education – that is perfectly clear! And if we remember today's debate at the current hour on the topic of "Technological change as an opportunity for the location of Austria", we must say: No, of course! We must benefit from this, and we will benefit from it – that is perfectly clear! But you know – and I don't want to repeat that again in every way – that the results of the PISA test are unfortunately not those of God that we all want. And the truth hurts: Austria or our children have become worse in international comparison, we have cut off worse. We regret that, but it is a fact, and we must fight this fact, and a first step, ladies and gentlemen, must be that we start reading, writing and computing in cultural techniques. That's normal. If a child leaves school, it has to be able to read meaningfully, and it simply can't be that one third of our students are risk students and can't read meaningfully when they leave school. The mastery of these cultural techniques is the prerequisite for following digital teaching. That is the basic condition! How can I learn, please, these techniques mentioned in the SPÖ or Coalition proposal, If I can't read?- Oh, my God! – That is totally impossible. That is why we want to focus on reading, writing and expecting. So, please, this is a matter of course, and that must be supported! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Building on it – let's say! – of course, adequate infrastructures are to be created and teachers must be trained to drive digitalisation. But you also know, Minister Hammerschmid, that according to the infrastructure survey, only 13.2 percent of federal schools and 50.7 percent of compulsory schools currently have broadband connections and that currently only about every sixth student has a computer space. We don't need to talk about tablets, there's a massive need to catch up. One thing really should not be – I picked it out from your initiative – that, as you think, playful access to technology should take place from primary school, i.e. that programming skills should already be taught in primary school. - It's really too early. Read, write, calculate: There you have to put on it! and on it you can then make digital education. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19245	Mr Mag. The motion for a resolution tabled by the House is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19312	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19333	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! We live in a time of change, we live in a time full of changes and renewals. After all, digitalization has replaced book printing and does not stop it before education. That is, it changes the way in which education is taught in the future and determines how our children learn in the future and how they are taught by the educators. This change is a huge chance for our children. I speak here consciously of children and not students, because I believe that the children should already acquire the first basic digital skills in kindergartens. Then: If software is used properly, software can also act as a so-called learning coach and also facilitate the work of our educators. The best result can then be achieved, I believe, if you link the digital world with the analogue world or, in other words, if a fusion of all digital possibilities takes place with the abilities of educators. The basic requirement for digital education is, of course, that there is a corresponding infrastructure at the educational institutions, that there is further education and training for our educators, that digital teaching resources are also provided for regular education and that digital education is also included in the curriculum. Digitalization is a huge opportunity for our country, and it must be so that no child leaves school without digital education. Another goal, however, must be that educators increasingly teach digital competence across a wide range of fields. In conclusion, it can be said: It is our responsibility to create the necessary framework conditions, and it is our duty to support our educators in their work. It is now up to us – and hence in our political responsibility – to take advantage of this opportunity, because, as I mean, we are not at the end of this development, but only at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19373	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19394	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The positive thing about the current debate is that it can take place. It can take place because the government parties have rejected this initiative in the Committee – which is rare by the way: This is usually pushed to the long bank and thus deprived of public discussion. So: We can discuss it – that's good and that's right! What is not good and right is the fact that you can reject such a thing. That should be a matter of course. Digitalization in education – this is a matter of course! And if we stick against it for even longer, Austria will fall back again and again in all tests. Of course, it is a matter of reading, writing and computing in the public school – and there is a word to the FPÖ. Your request is therefore also supported by us, although I say: This is certainly a matter of course, but you really don't have to discuss it! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This government is not a matter of course!]] What are the benefits of digitalization, especially in education? – The computer, the smartphone, whatever, allows teachers to personalise the teaching, to tailor it to the individual children in the class, to give special tasks, also to demand children with special skills. All of this makes it possible to deal with new media in class. Therefore, it is clear to us: We need to support this! I also say: This can also change atmospheric school, because it will not often be the case that young people may be teaching their teacher something that leads to dealing with the computer or with the smartphone or with the mobile phone. The way to ban these new media from teaching is certainly the wrong one. But I would also like to make some critical comments and refer to a text by Christian Vuller, and he bears the title “Guardy, Foundation!”. I have noticed in recent years that more and more representatives of education foundations have occurred, including in Austria, for example, Jörg Dräger, the chairman of the Bertelsmann Foundation, has come to speak several times. In the above-mentioned text, Christian Füller points out that these foundations are increasingly heading in the direction of representing benhard Group interests. I believe that, when we think about the digital future in school, we must be careful that there are no monopolies. We have already experienced – and, of course, through the way of the software – with the computer, the hardware, and so to speak – that corporations like Microsoft, Apple and so on have monopoly. You, Mrs Hammerschmid, know that this is also the case with us at school. Let's make sure these foundations don't have too much influence on what happens in school, get that non-billion-heavy corporations are ultimately the profiters of this digitization! So: A yes to digitization, but also a yes to strict control of what is going on in schools, and a yes to supervision of who is doing the big business in schools. I think that is where we are called.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19440	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19461	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am very pleased that we are today able to implement this joint motion for a resolution by four parties. Thanks also to Matthias Strolz, who laid the foundation for this, which we could then expand together. Today, we have already started talking about the topic of technological change, talking about digitization and how the opportunities for the Austrian site look. The question, of course, is also: How can we also understand and take advantage of the change for the individual? I have already said this morning: An important point of approach is education. We need digital skills, and we need them because they will accompany all young people, all students in the future on their way of life, both in the professional field and in the private sector. I also pointed out in the current hour this morning that of course the IT environment, the IT economy is getting bigger and bigger. We need young people who are interested in IT, ICT, MINT subjects and are also seeking a career in this field. It is important that we also encourage young women to deal with this issue and help them lose fear of it. I went to a primary school myself, with a focus on media and computer science, where we also learned a lot about this. It is already true that in the NMS curriculum and the sub-level of AHS computer science is only a non-binding exercise. While it is set as a teaching principle, there are many dedicated teachers who are trying to do so and the ministry is also trying to support very many initiatives in this area, I think it is very difficult to use. Computer science or digital education does not only concern the knowledge of how a writing or computing program is used or how a keyboard is to be used, much- It is also about understanding and learning how this technological world works, and also about getting to know its areas of application, simply knowing how it all works. Just as we have learned in school that the electricity does not simply come out of the socket, so it should also be in digital education when acquiring digital skills. I believe that – and this is what I am addressing to Mr Hauser – basic knowledge is important in programming. Of course, this should not compete to read, write and calculate. These are important skills that each child should receive. And yes, the PISA study also shows that we need to catch up. But to make a comparison: Programming is something like a foreign language needed to understand the technical world. I believe that the ideas about what programming is actually are wrong, perhaps influenced by American films, so that you think you're sitting in the dark chamber and you're just suffocating any orders. On the contrary: Programming is very diverse. There are graphic and also textual programs. There are also variants for the childhood area, for the kindergarten, for the folk school area to understand playful programming processes. Of course, this also has a great advantage for other subjects, because it also allows us to learn logical thinking, learn analytical thinking, deal with algorithms, pattern recognition, cybernetics and much more. But there is also one step further, let us not stop programming! I think there is a lot of issues that need to be dealt with. This also includes media and knowledge navigation. We live in a world with a wealth of information in which we need to find ourselves. But it's just as about IT security, it's about data protection, about the question: What can I do on the Internet, what's right and what's wrong? It is also about ethics, and of course it is also about humanism in a digital age. These are topics that are also to be found in the field of digital education. The second major part of this motion for a resolution is the subject of infrastructure. This starts with broadband development and goes through Wi-Fi to the workplaces for teachers and also for students, regardless of the end device, whether it be a stand-by computer, a tablet or a smartphone. But it is also a network and server infrastructure, it is about digital teaching materials, and it is also about digital technical learning aids. There's still a lot of need to catch up. However, I believe that with this proposal we are taking an important step in the right direction today and thus contribute to the fact that digital education in our schools is also an important place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19522	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19544	Mr President. Thank you, Madam Minister for Education! We have already discussed the topic of digitalisation and technological change in detail this morning. It is important to recognize – and this has been said more often today, by Mr Walser, but now also by Mr Himmelbauer – that we have to understand the whole thing differently. Name: It is no longer a phenomenon that we are looking at from the outside, which we may be looking at. seeking to integrate in a piece – also in teaching – but that has just become part of our reality. This is a reality in which all the children who are now in school are also living, and which we can no longer only view individually. This must become an integral part of the entire teaching, and there may be the difference in the view that: It is not about not learning other cultural skills anymore. This is not contrary to this reality. It is about learning these skills differently and perhaps better today. The consequence of digitalisation is also that we will need more and more professionals in this field and that we will probably have a million open jobs throughout Europe by 2020, because people who have these skills, this expertise will be needed. But we sleep this change in schools and do not come after young people to teach these skills so that they can be these professionals who will get these jobs. It is good that we are now taking a step further with this joint resolution that the government has also recognized this as an issue. I very much appreciate that in the last two years and this year, it has become more and more the subject of our federal government as something to do. I am, however, eager to see what that will really be for concrete steps, which is what this means for the content in class and how much money we will take into account for it. I have still read today that the American Brookings institution has written about digitization in schools in America. There is obviously a problem like ours, because technological change and digitization in schools are always seen as expensive spare parts, as expensive, cost-intensive replacement for normal teaching materials, such as having a computer instead of a schoolbook or a digital board instead of a conventional board. It costs money, but it's not really about it! I think it is a matter of opening our eyes to the fact that there are much more opportunities through digital learning methods to address students better, more individually, more personalized and, in fact, cheaper. It is about that it is a reform of attitudes – I said it this morning – and that we are looking at what digitization actually means, change for ourselves and perhaps admit that it is no longer a matter of saying: Children, we're teaching you how an iPad works now, because they're living in this world we're still looking at from the outside. That's why we need to think more about the direction I've just outlined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19586	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19607	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I identify with the present resolution on the digitisation initiative because of the already existing digitalisation offensive. It is clear that digitization in our schools, beginning at the folk school, has already been included. PCs and internet are essential and crucial for the school career, but also important for various job prospects and opportunities of our students; here I mention only the keyword Industry 4.0. Dear ladies and gentlemen! An important initiative is eeducation. This project is essential insofar as more than 1.2 million pupils are already actively involved in over 55 000 school classes in Austria. I would also like to mention: That the Burgenland has been a pioneer in digitization for some time: Since 2003, there has been a school network in Burgenland in the schools of Burgenland. All students and teachers in the New Secondary Schools, Polytechnic Schools and Vocational Schools have the opportunity to participate in the platform LMS free of charge. Finally, it is also said that 20 percent of all eLSA schools in Austria have their location in Burgenland. Ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, digital competence is the fourth cultural technology, of course according to the basic competences of reading, writing and computing, and must be shared with the students. The key points in digitization are that the content must be communicated to students due to modern teaching methods, but on the other hand there must also be mandatory training and further education opportunities for all educators, that the teachers must provide the appropriate infrastructure and, last but not least, that there must also be a critical handling of the Internet due to data protection. I only mention the keywords cybercrime, cybermobbing and hate postings; these issues also need to be questioned critically. I wish you all the best in the implementation of this initiative next year, Ms Hammerschmid.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19650	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1409 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1914/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the 1409 d.a. report. Related Resolution on the Fourth Cultural Technology on Digital Education: Digitalization measures for the school. Who agrees to this request? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 183.) Finally, we shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Houses, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Digital education’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[18:26:15]] 26. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics on the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Austrian economy (2016 medium-sized report) (III-325/1400 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19720	That's what we're going to do. Agenda item. First word message: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19744	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary Mahrer! High house! Fathers. Mr State Secretary, since you are present in the debate on the SME report today in the representation of Vice-chanc Mitterlehner, I would like to start with a quote from you last year: “The middle class is increasingly under pressure: Excessive tax and red tape loads, educational deficits and shortage of skilled workers limit his scope for action and endanger his success. (...) The middle class needs a significant improvement in the location policy framework." – This is from the "Middle Atlas Austria", editor Julius Raab Stiftung. They will certainly try to present or speak of this mid-term report relatively euphorically. The truth, however, the reality is quite another. If you talk to entrepreneurs outside today – and I don't necessarily mean with chamber officials, but with real entrepreneurs – then you will feel that the mood is in the basement. The majority of SMEs in Austria are not satisfied with the current situation at all. I would like to point out, because you always mention SMEs, perhaps also briefly: 90 percent of all companies in Austria are micro-enterprises with up to nine employees, and of course they have completely different problems than large companies. I would like to give you a few figures on the subject of new start-ups: 2010 – 29 640, 2015 – 29 561, so no trace of the new founding offensive you announced by the ÖVP. Or, a situation report on the profits of SMEs: One third of companies make losses, one third more or less writes a black zero, and only one third of SMEs make reasonable profits. – This is clearly stated in the mid-term report. Another topic related to the teaching companies – it was mentioned earlier in the field of education – is: The number of teaching establishments in Austria has now fallen from 41 600 companies to 29 100 companies, which is a minimum of 40 percent. This is also a clear sign that entrepreneurs are no longer able to train apprentices meaningfully or continuously. In this area you do nothing at all! The last point, the volume of funding – also an important indicator – is credit up to € 1 million: In 2009, the figure was €840 million, and in 2015 only €680 million, which is also one characteristic, which clearly points down and which also clearly reflects the mood of SMEs. [[Abg. Hanger: Interesting that we have created more jobs around 130 000!]] – Yes, but only part-time jobs, you have to say, no full-time jobs! We'd love to! What does the SME need, what do SMEs need? – You need skilled workers and skilled apprentices, low pay extra costs, sensible funding – I just say: Basel III makes financing extremely difficult – and a massive reduction in bureaucracy and administration. I would also like to make a brief point here of a campaign by the Economic and Social Committee, which is not likely to be unknown to you: ‘Red cards for bureaucrats’. [[The speaker holds the black-and-white copy of a picture entitled “Now: Red Cards for Bureaucrats.” to the height on which a hand can be seen with a card.]] That's how you act outside. Here in plenary, in the last few years, you'll make every senseless story that comes with, raise your hand, stand up, and then you'll go outside: “Red cards for bureaucrats” – Wirtschaftsbund. I'd like to give that to you for reading, if you don't remember. What more do SMEs need? Significant profits to invest, the transfer of family businesses – even there you have promised to take action, but there has been nothing at all – and, in my opinion, a fair competition is very important. I'm just calling the Internet trade: SMEs simply have a competitive disadvantage, because Amazon and similar companies operate on the market under completely different conditions, and SMEs are under extreme pressure. They have the registry obligation, the Allergensverordnung, the Food Labelling Obligation, the Energy Efficiency Act, a Regulation Addiction, Russia’s sanctions, a total ban on smoking, the increase in VAT and so on – many measures that harm SMEs exactly. I would have expected that now, at last, a detachment of the economy will come. Please unravel the economy and don't give any Sunday speeches! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19815	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19837	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Wurm, you have now listed some of the measures you criticize. But they did not present a programme, at all, which would have shown how it could be done. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Soweso, I can give you if you want! You don't do it anyway!]] We now have to say that the mid-term report clearly shows that it is going uphill again, and that is a very essential point. The SME report shows that we have put in place measures that were simply right. There is now a good chance that we will regain our growth gap over the euro area and Germany. We now have a growth of over 1.5 percent, which is the highest growth since 2011. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] If you look at that, you can see that the whole thing fits. We have lowered the additional wage costs – we were that, the government, yes – at least by € 1 billion. You were not in the process, you did not agree, you just criticized it – but we have reduced wage costs again. Secondly, we have now created an investment premium, which will reach from next year onwards, for small and medium-sized enterprises with € 175 million. The second package is the community investment package, which also benefits the economy because it is invested in the municipalities. If you look at job statistics, you can see that we have created over 100,000 jobs – not us, but entrepreneurs in this country. Entrepreneurs in this country create jobs, so we must make every effort to improve the mood first. – That’s no question, I know, because I’m on my way too. We must therefore see that we are also selling the measures we have now taken accordingly. We cannot always say that it is all so terrible, but we must see that we raise the mood in this respect. When you look at this: We are also in the international rankings again on an ascending branch. If you really look at this in detail, you can see quite clearly: Where entrepreneurs in Austria can make free, we are among the first ten: Business orientation to the customer – third place; Quality of domestic subcontractors – third place; competitiveness through unique products and processes – fourth place; Employers' and employees' relationship – you hear and marvel – is: Place six; Innovation power – place 8th. Thanks to the Austrian companies, these are great results! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But you always have to be self-critical and ask where you can improve. For example, in the impact of taxes and social benefits on the incentive to work, we are in place 132. It is clear that we have a large deficit, and that is why we also have our proposals on this, because we have to make improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, this report is one of the works that show that we are also fulfilling the Small Business Act for Europe. We are above the EU average in terms of internationalisation, sustainability, environment and energy and in terms of further qualification and innovation. And now another point that is very important, namely dual training – you have done it, Mr Worm, and it has already come in the field of education today. EuroSkills: We are the European champions of the skilled, so it is important that we continue to invest in this dual training. It is a model, it envys us many countries, and that is why we should remain on this line. That is why it is also important that we receive these qualifications in the trade regulations which we are now modernising, because the skilled training we have in Austria needs a basis. That is why, on the one hand, we have modernised the trade regulations and, on the other hand, of course, we also need to create some incentives to make dual training even more attractive. Summa summarum, I think, is a more successful report, and we have brought Austria's economy a bit further forward in this relationship in the last two years. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19888	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e19910	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker presented a brochure entitled "The Future Action Programme for SMEs. New edition 2016” by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy of the Federal Republic of Germany.]] First of all, I would like to thank all the small and medium-sized enterprises for their performance, for their willingness to carry out this risk of running a farm, and also for the employees, because they are providing particularly high performance in this area! I do not want to talk about this report bad, but I think, Mr Haubner, we should talk more to the entrepreneurs and less about the statistics, because there is a great difference in the appearance. Yesterday, the “Citizen’s Forum” was broadcast on TV. I actually liked the fact that German Chancellors said core, our concern, our strength is the weaker in this society. I think that the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular – and we know how quickly such new entrants will be terminated – are in a very difficult situation. I'm allowed to give an example because he didn't come to speak yesterday: A month ago I was carrying the book “Fucking Gastro” by Günter Hager. Yesterday he would have included the statistics on how much a host earns on average with 1 000 € of turnover – namely exactly 1.4 percent, 14 €. Although sales have increased, all the burdens, such as the additional burden on the bureaucratic barriers, the additional laws and conditions, are expected to be less and less. This is the reality, and that is why 500 hosts have decided to have their doors for to be closed at all times. That's 5,000 unemployed! That's another 3,000 cars on the road! And that is exactly the problem of regionality, of rural areas, which we are always discussing here and where we want to intervene by means of financial compensation. The best financial compensation would be if we were to maintain the structures if we were to maintain prosperity in rural areas outside. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Lugar.]] I made something here that I got on my trip to Berlin. [[The speaker pointed to the brochure in front of him on the speaker's desk.]] The order situation in Germany is a very good one, yet politics is already working again on a future programme of SMEs, it is being thought about how to keep this fire burning, and one does not wait until it melts, so that it needs to be rekindled again. You're already working on new ideas there. I can still say something to Lenzing AG, which has already been mentioned this morning. You can, of course, wipe this out of the table and say: There's nothing you can do, the companies follow their markets! – I said it: They follow the winnings and the dividends. But this is exactly the SMEs that have won. It is not only about 165 new employees at the parent site of Lenzing, but also about small and medium-sized enterprises in the in- and downstream area who would have supplied themselves with their products. That would be the real strengthening! This is another turbo for the regional region, for the regional economy. It is similar with agriculture. We discussed it first in connection with palm oil: Each holding – and every day close 10 farms – that is closed is a missing client for the regional economy, for small and medium-sized enterprises that have had a reliable payment partner in that holding who has had a reliable economic partner in their regional environment. These are the real effects! These are the problems that are totally underestimated and which one tries to speak beautifully over and over again. That's why the government is quite clearly demanding – because it always says: where are the demands? – to implement the de-bureaucratisation promised in each election campaign. Talk to a young businessman who has 10 employees and then has to pay back €6,500 because he has bought two Fiscal trucks whose loading area is too short by 5 centimetres! These are the spearheads that miss him entrepreneurship, because he says: Why am I doing that? There I go somewhere in an official relationship and do me a nice day, but I don't take the entrepreneurial risk on myself! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Lugar.]] Why is it not implemented that this membership of the Chamber should at last be abolished? It can't be that the Chamber of Commerce is talking about competition, of success, of quality, and it itself is hiding behind a compulsory membership system! This is not possible and not in time. And the last point – one, I believe, most importantly – is the structural reforms that have been discussed. I think that's the essential thing to intervene here. We are pouring so much money into the preservation of the structures, the maintenance of social security and similar structures that no one needs to do so. This is where we finally have to start so that the money that was earned is really available to SMEs, workers and employees. And then you really generate order volume again, then we really generate courage for the young entrepreneurs and for the existing companies. I think that's the very essential thing: We should not only talk about new start-ups, but also support those who are already working in order to continue these businesses. That, I think, would be the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20000	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20021	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We have presented a success here, a substantial part of the Austrian economy in the form of a report. And it's the unknowing callers, like my colleague Worm, who just talked about what doesn't work,... – Yes, it works! [[Abg. Peter Wurm:...that you say that, Mr. Matznetter!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Here you have to ask the companies!]] They will not baden our 330 000 SMEs! [[Abg. Neubauer: But healthy talk...!]] If that were true, they would not have so many employees! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: I just explained that to you!]] There are 68 percent of all jobs. And even in the 2008 crisis, 2009 they received them! – All the wrong you said! [[Call the FPÖ: He didn't say that!]] He said that the framework conditions were not all right. – The framework must be fine, otherwise they could not work, and they work well. Let's write this into the main book! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our apprenticeship training is based on these SMEs. We win almost every competition, whether EuroSkills, WorldSkills, with our apprentices, because there is a really excellent training. We have a good system, Mr President. And I also think this method of FPÖ to permanently explain everything as bad, for the wrong. Imagine yourself and say that there are good farms in a good country that works well! Then you would have said the truth here from the speaker's desk, Mr Wurm. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Back to what the government does. I remind you – only this day! –: We have a 2016 tax reform, which of course also applies to income taxpayers. We have thus reduced the tax burden on workers and also on the majority of SMEs, because they have the legal form of an individual company or a person company. We made a start-up package in summer. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] We now have an investment increase premium. We have a significant reduction, the greatest reduction in additional labour costs by 1. ==References== Where's the FPÖ? - She's against it. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... Paradise!]] What makes sense? Well, did you agree? Did you mention it praisefully? - No, continue cross-shots. I'll tell you: This policy, only all of them, with allegations of what is bad, rather than worthy of what is good, will take advantage of it. [[Abg. Neubauer: A lot of good is not left!]] The “Bürgerforum” mentioned yesterday by Leo Steinbichler has already shown it: Most of the citizens have said that they no longer need this dispute. - And we don't need that either. We have good establishments in a good country, a good apprenticeship training. We will continue to strengthen SMEs. We will implement our further projects, including the industrial innovation. And I invite those who are always against it: Come on! That would be good for you, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20178	Next, Mr. Ing. Klinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20199	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Listeners and listeners! Mr Matznetter, we are not talking badly about SMEs, we are talking about the conditions for SMEs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ecker: That's not true!]] That's not wrong. I am now telling you from this point of view of a whole stone and clear: Since 1984, I have been a single contractor in the transport industry – one of the hardest and most competitive sectors at all. I am a single entrepreneur – you know what that means. And something else: I've never grown special or smaller in my size either. I continued this operation as I got it from my father. And it is becoming increasingly difficult to continue these businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Matznetter:... just bad reasons!]] They stand here as the Vice-President of the Chamber and say that these businesses are easy and super and good to carry on. – Unfortunately, they are no longer God’s, and I have the biggest problem! Mr. Matznetter! I have the biggest problem of passing on one of my three farms to my children. Not because these farms are indebted – no, I will hand them over debt-free – the problem lies in the future outlook. These farms are becoming increasingly difficult to maintain. [[Abg. Hanger: Because you're always talking bad!]] I just need to look at the tax rate. Look at the tax rate! Look at what we brought it to Austria with one of the top 5 tax quotas forever and ever! That's a huge problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must not forget one thing either: We have developed a social state that is committed to getting more and more of us from abroad, namely non-educational shifts! [[Abg. Lightenecker: I'm going!]] We must take note of that. And because you have addressed the question of apprentices: My house has trained the best apprentices in Austria. We don't get any more! We no longer get apprentices for the gastronomy, and this is not because we pay badly, not because we have a bad working environment. We have many years of employees who work faithfully with us, including those from abroad. But one thing has to be said: It can be achieved less and less positively in the future, if it continues to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This raises the question for me – and I will address it even more precisely in later speeches because we do not have the time to do so today: What are those responsible in this state doing to improve these prospects for the future? I wish everything good for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20292	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20313	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klinger, it would be better not to mess things up in debates on reports on facts and data. One cannot always blame the refugees who are forced to flee on everything, and not at all on the condition of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Klinger: I didn't mention the refugees!]] [[Abg. Klinger: I don't have that...!]] – You did that here, and that’s really something that’s hardest to reject. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Don't be so governmental again!]] But now to SMEs: Finally, they are the central pillar of the Austrian economy with 99.7 percent. And, Mr Matznetter, they have not only succeeded in securing jobs in times of crisis, but have expanded them! [[Abg. Matznetter: That's right!]] The 130 000 jobs were created in the balance between 2009 and 2014. And that's good. [[Complementary of the Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek, Deputies of SPÖ and Abg. Tamandl.]] These small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly important for rural areas. We know how important the training places are. We know how important the jobs are. The question is: What are the challenges facing companies at the moment? I come to the first area, which is the subject of financing. Small and medium-sized credit volumes are currently the lowest since 2009. This is also linked to various regulations in the banking sector, where there is a need for action to ensure the appropriate funding for these small and medium-sized enterprises. The second is the skilled labour force. – Yes, this is a topic: Apprenticeship training in small and medium-sized enterprises has declined since 2008. This also depends on how attractive the apprenticeships, the training places are. There is also a need for action. We know this from various sectors – my colleague Birgit Schatz is always very committed, especially in the field of training in the tourism sector. The third major area is taxation. Of course, it needs a fair, just tax system! We need an additional wage reduction, which is long overdue! Small and medium-sized enterprises bear a heavy tax burden, and in comparison, corporations and large companies are preferred. That's something that needs to be changed. We need a fair, just, ecological tax system! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to say one thing about the current situation: We know that before Christmas the consumption is very high. It is the decision of each individual consumer and every individual consumer where they shop: Am I doing this at Amazon or Zalando or anywhere, or am I going to the store in the place? That is the question: Where do I buy my books? Where do I buy fashion? Where do I buy shoes? – This is the decision of each individual and of every individual. And it is also important here, because: Buying in the place means nothing but securing jobs in the region. These companies pay fair taxes here, and – most importantly – they revive the local cores. All of this is of vital importance. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] A next major area is investment in climate protection. Investment in climate protection, a fair eco electricity law – these are areas that are absolutely strengthening our companies. Look at the numbers! You know the numbers from Upper Austria: The eco-energy cluster, the environmental technology cluster – there are hundreds of companies that secure thousands of jobs! That's exactly where it's worth investing! This is, on the one hand, a contribution to climate protection and, on the other, jobs are created. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to an issue that you, Secretary of State Mahrer, have raised in the last Economic Committee, which you always know, is the subject of digital change. Yes, digital change is a challenge. We need a culture of making it possible. And I think the big companies – like Voest, Infineon, STIWA and so on – are well positioned, they have the capacities, they have the research capacities. Those who need support are small and medium-sized enterprises, and that's where you have to focus. We need a strategy 2025 in the digital field, a digital agenda 2025 in which we focus on these small and medium-sized enterprises, namely a digital medium-sized offensive. We must see that the infrastructure fits, and also ensure that the qualifications fit. These are the challenges that we have to pay attention to. Overall, it is certainly good, but we have several major challenges, and we have to deal with them consistently.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20417	Mr Ing. Klinger on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20441	Mr President. Mrs Lichtenecker said I had spoken about refugees. I'm actually correcting: I talked about foreign immigrants. I've also said that I'm busy with foreigners myself.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20493	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20514	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Medium-term report 2016: Yes, our small and medium-sized enterprises are the motor of our economy, and I have the greatest respect for their performance. Business access in terms of loans and capital must be facilitated. Yes, improvements have been made, Mr Haubner, Mr State Secretary, Christoph Matznetter. A reduction in additional labour costs has been carried out, investment grants have been granted, and this must continue to be done. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a comparison to the burdens these companies had to experience and undergo before. I do not think that this discharge will compensate for it. For precisely these small and medium-sized enterprises are the guarantee in terms of economics, even in crisis situations – they have often proved this. What this economic engine urgently needs, what these hard-working businesses urgently need, is a real red tape reduction. Getting away with the unnecessary provisions – it's high time, Mr. Cot, you know that very well – and also with all these regulations and regulations so that this economic engine can get enough air again and not start stuttering. It is very important, Mr Haubner, of course also, as far as Basel IV is concerned that these negotiations do not put additional shock on SMEs and obstacles to them. Putting in place economics, otherwise it will be difficult with this strong economic engine, which the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria represent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20554	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20575	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Mr. Klinger spoke of “uneducated layers”. Now I don't know – that can be inside here. But, basically, I would like to return to the statements made by my previous speakers. Mr Haubner also spoke of poor standing in relation to the incentive to work. – Completely correct: The employees cost too much and earn too little. The government would also be able to reduce the additional wage costs dramatically. It is also quite right, as you say, that we have a problem with apprentices. But unlike the colleague Lichtenecker, I do not say that the attractiveness of the apprenticeships is the problem, but I think the system of apprenticeship training is the problem. In this respect, it is not possible to propose the trade regulation. If you move ahead of the trade order, you come to the fact that there are only 300 open teaching places in the Pongau district and only 30 searchers – in the general area. So there is a need to consider the attractiveness of the teaching system, the apprenticeship training, too. It is particularly important, I believe, to stress the strength – and I count as an entrepreneur also among small and medium-sized enterprises – that we have: We achieve 64 percent of all sales in this country. We employ 68 percent of all employees. And 99.7 percent of enterprises are SMEs – in the whole area. In this respect, it is also important that the Federal Government has defined Austria as the most founding country by 2020. In the case of plant permits, something has also gone on, I must say that you have to admit that too. But what I don't understand – and no one understands that – is why one sends a deregulation law on the way in which the Ministry responsible for economics agrees in the opinion itself that much more would have been possible. Now I'm asking: Was there the problem that was no longer possible, or were it the social partners in general who did not allow it? [[pointing toward SPÖ]] That's where I've got to ask you: If the Minister himself said it would have been much more possible, where are the problems? Where is the standstill caused? Maybe over there? [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] Ah, look here?- Oh, my God! To that end, I should also like to quote Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner from the preface to this SME report: “The task of the policy and public sector is to provide the best possible framework conditions for SMEs, to support them specifically and to remove bureaucratic obstacles.” Now we have it! And so do I, as an entrepreneur, and according to a Wifo study, 92 percent of entrepreneurs consider this to be very important – in addition to the flexibility of labour law. We need much longer throughput periods, we need more flexible working worlds, we have arrived in another century – this must also involve social partners. 74 percent consider a general reduction in the rate of and tax ratio as at least important, and – now it comes! – the same number of this bureaucracy burden is actually full of the snout if I can say so without instituting a call for order. You have enough of it, they really have enough of it. Many don't want to. And you can talk about such a good environment. Especially in tourism, tax reliefs have not been made, but tax charges have been made. We know that, too, Mr Matznetter. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think it is very important to take this SME report seriously. If you want to do something for us entrepreneurs and tourism, this shows up in three points: Point one: We need a working time flexibility. Point two: We need a reduction in additional labour costs. I would like to stress that once again. The employees cost too much and earn too little. This is a mistake in tourism. This is not a bad thing, but these conditions are already on and on. Point three: To tackle the business order correctly, not only highlight the approvals of the plant, but also implement the business regulation reform properly so that we can continue in the 21st century. ==References====External links== Okay, that's right, we just need a commercial license, yes, that's right, we can open up companies, and above all we can revive these rural centres, these thinning places. This requires a more flexible, open trade order, a liberalisation of the trade system – actually a NEOS programme that has already joined the SPÖ. Here we have them again The protective force stands on the brake and does not allow new jobs, does not enable new training modules. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] In this respect, I think you should take the SME report seriously if our entrepreneurs are worth something to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20648	Mr Themessl has been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20670	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A positive part of this report is that once a year, the government parties also insist on the importance of SMEs to the Austrian economy – they are the backbone of the Austrian economy – and that is positive. It is also positive that the companies – Mr Matznetter knows that, I have been saying for years, thanks to all the companies with their employees – despite increasingly poor conditions such results can be achieved. That's the positive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you should not just read the preface in such a report. In fact, if you really read the report page by page and deal with the subject, you would have to find that there are a lot of critical comments, such as: “The focus must continue to be placed on reducing bureaucratic obstacles.” – “Furthermore” – we have heard this for years! What you do – and I can also give you a few examples – is: The bureaucratic obstacles are not reduced, but even reinforced. If Peter Haubner has said that we have modernised the trade order, I must also direct Peter Haubner and Mr Matznetter: You don't have anything yet! ==References====External links== It is decided that there is nothing at all in the end of December. If you consider the in-depth complaints relating to If you had looked at the correctness of the review, you would have seen: From Vorarlberg alone, eleven sides of this trade order are being crushed, half of the points are being made that the new trade order causes more bureaucracy than the old one. That is to say, in some areas it is proposed to leave it as it was in order not to increase bureaucracy. That's your understanding of red tape reduction! They have been saying for years that access to funds had to be made easier for SMEs. Since 2009, the investment rate has been falling permanently. In Sweden it increases by 12.5 percent, in Germany by 5.5 percent, and with us it still stands at 1.9 percent below the level of 2009. You know that there can be no economic upturn without any investment in the long term. Then you're talking about skilled workers, a shortage of skilled workers. We have been telling you for years that you are going the completely wrong way in apprenticeship training. That was the idea of Mr. Hundstorfer, already in 2008, when we started not to involve businesses in training, but to leave it to the ÜLAs. I already admit that the ÜLAs are important in certain areas, because there will always be a certain percentage of people in our society who are unable to successfully train. But what you've done is: They built it up enormously. Do you know what the “standard” wrote yesterday? – That only a maximum of 36 percent of those who leave the ÜLA, who by the way cost € 180 million in the year, have a chance at all to be taken up by a company, because they can do almost nothing after the completion of these ÜLAs. - I congratulate you! I've been telling you for years: If you bind up the economy, create incentives for the economy, then we will be able to recover the 10,000 training companies lost in the meantime! Then we will also be able to bring youth unemployment back to where it once was, and there we were not bad in Europe; in the meantime we are not even medium-sized. So I could pick you up one point after another, but I'm not doing it now because I don't have the time to do it. Mr Haubner, what the ÖVP is doing here is in the sky anyway. The facts presented by the World Bank – and the World Bank is two-thirds you – indicate that the investment level of 2008 has not yet been reached; unfortunately, more growth through more investment is not the case. It then has top demands of the “Future I Economy”: Increase the threshold for low-valued goods to €1500, introduce investment-free amount, which would require less bureaucracy than the investment-growth premium; all know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] – These are all the demands we have made in this House for years with requests. You have always rejected them, now you raise them yourself. And do you know what's tragic? – You demand this in the Chamber of Commerce, but here in the House do not put it into practice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20739	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20760	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We stand at the doorstep to a new digital revolution, the perfect linkage of production on the one hand and communication technology on the other, digitization 4.0. This poses huge risks for Austria, but also many opportunities. In particular, a stronger global competition and a kind of automation of the working world will be achieved. We must ask ourselves how we recognize these risks and how we use these opportunities. First: Where are we today? We have heard today that there are 330 000 enterprises in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in this country, which employ 1.9 million people, which account for 68 percent of turnover. I'm proud of these ventures. Mr Klinger, I am also an entrepreneur, and I am happy to do so, I am happy to do so, and I am doing so well. I don't know, there's probably something different. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But when we look into the future, we have to ask ourselves: What can we do to make these companies fit for the future? – Our answer is: We need a social agenda, a social digital agenda. I want young people to trust themselves with good ideas to become independent and to be socially secure. I wish that small and medium-sized enterprises would follow their business during the day and not have to stand up in the evening and on the weekend of bureaucracy, and that they are also socially secure. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Change that!]] Saving social security costs trust, costs innovation and costs activeness. So social security must be part of society in all areas in 2017, ladies and gentlemen, even in the field of self-employment, only because it makes the location and independence more attractive. The 2016 SME report also shows that entrepreneurs often find it difficult to finance. - Yes, we responded. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Who?]] – I would like to explain to you, Mr Worm, that you were not there or that you slept, I do not know. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to improve the framework conditions for private investors, for example, crowdfunding was significantly facilitated. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But not for all SMEs, Mrs. Colleague!]] The start-up programme decided on a risk premium for investors. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] - Listen to me, Mr. Worm! – An important boost will also be the SME Investment Growth premium with a financial volume of €125 million to two years, which will make a major contribution to overcoming the investment weakness. We, dear FPÖ colleagues, take our responsibility seriously. We need to put even more emphasis on the social and environmental agenda. There I am, I'm sure. To conclude: For 2017 – and this is what I am addressing now to everyone in this room – I wish that topics such as social security for entrepreneurs or the problem of self-retaining on medical visits are addressed, that too little pay is openly addressed and discussed for ill workers, because one thing is quite clear: Austria is in the leading field, and we as SPÖ are working to ensure that this remains so with a social digital agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20851	Mr Dr. Franz has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20872	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As a doctor, I myself am a businessman and employer of five per- and also have a lot of SMEs as a patient with whom I step back and again and polish – this is part of it, especially in common patients. The problems of SMEs have been relatively clear – apart from the medical problems I am not explaining here – and have already been addressed several times today. First of all, the bureaucracy, second, the still high taxes, third the additional labour costs, fourth the planning uncertainty for companies, fifth of the very marked redundancies protection in Austria, sixth of the labour market, seventh the wages and eighth the order situation. Then there are a few more points that diversify. The question is: What can politics do? – Of course, for the order situation and for the performance of the individual companies not very much, you have to create jobs yourself, but politics can do something in the area of bureaucracy, and certainly policy can do something in the tax laws. My own tax advisor says to me: Doctor, you don't work so much, that doesn't make sense, from a certain tax rate you only work for the state! – I am already wondering what kind of country we live in, in which a punitive and jealous fundamental mental climate we liberals and entrepreneurs do our work. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This has to be questioned if a professional tax advisor is acting like this – and this is a very good tax advisor – and says: Brake a little bit, that won't bring anything, you just come in there more! You have to take note of this before, and above all – and this has already been mentioned today – you have to look more closely at the state quota. We are at the state rate among the world's leading states: In the United Kingdom 44 percent, in Luxembourg it is 44 percent, at the German neighbours 44 percent, and in Switzerland 35 percent. That's where I've got to ask you: What's going on in Austria? What about the state rate? Why does it not go down in spite of all the measures – in addition to wage reduction, tax reform and cetera? – There's still a lot of bacon in it, that's what we should do and reduce. I think it is also important, Mrs Lichtenecker, that we do not prohibit speech and thought by saying that we cannot discuss and address migration costs if we have to pay € 2 billion a year for migration. Well, someone has to do that, and they're going to be companies and nobody else. That is why this is very likely to be taken into account. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] We also have to say that 20 percent of the citizens in Austria pay 80 percent of the taxes. These are the people who already expect something from politics, namely that we say thank you and promote and maintain them, that we not only talk about red tape and tax reduction, but also implement it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] These are the service providers in Austria, and the service providers have to be promoted, because only then can you help those who may not be so good in the performance and need something from the others. That means that taxes down is the simplest message in the world. This has already been given by American Presidents, who is now also doing whatever you think of him, and only that creates jobs. We all know that. Let us therefore take note of this issue, take it seriously and accept it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20953	Mrs Minzig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e20975	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With two thirds of the workforce and the apprentices, SMEs are the backbone not only of our economy, as Mr Themessl mentioned, but above all of our society, and they have earned more appreciation. I believe that statements such as those relating to the reduction of working time are also negligible at full wage compensation. [[Abg. Themessl: But I didn't!]] – I did not say that, Mr Themessl, I just said that you mentioned the backbone. SMEs have mastered the crisis, but also the challenging period after that. This also shows the creation of 130 000 new jobs. It is important, however, how we are set up in the future and what challenges we expect, because it is not to be expected that economic growth will increase in the near future. We have a large number of unemployed people, 50 percent of them are unqualified and ineligible as skilled workers, but we also have strong international and European site competition. Considering that Hungary is currently planning a corporate tax of 9 percent, we know what consequences this will have. What are the future priorities? – Some have already been mentioned: Innovation and digitalization, of course qualified employees – this is currently the issue of number one in our businesses – investment and financing and, above all, the deregulation addressed. We have already decided on a number of measures – think of the craftsman bonus, the threshold regulation, the best bidder principle, the additional wage reduction! – and we will also decide on the increase in the investment premium. These are important steps to stimulate investment activities. However, we have – someone has already done this today, I believe, Mrs Lichtenecker – increasing regulation in the banking sector, which inhibits lending. Considering that the RLB Upper Austria is being examined by three supervisory bodies – including the OeNB, the FMA and the ECB – and a stress test of 14 600 pages, it is known that the reduction of the bank levy that we will hopefully decide together tomorrow is more than necessary. In fact, a supervisory reform would also have to be considered so that the banks and SMEs will have more air to breathe again. The government's deregulation package also gives SMEs more air to breathe. In particular, plant law is a very important point, because 50 percent of the procedures can be done in the simplified procedure. The absence of an advertising obligation in the case of machine exchange, the reduced deadline for four months, but also the expansion of the business scope and the expansion of the one-stop shop principle are also a great relief for our businesses. Mr Themessl, you said it wasn't all. I hope that we will all do this together, because it is really important for our economy. Mr Steinbichler referred to Mr Hager today and mentioned that he did not speak. I can quote him: “I hate the eternal ravinery in Austria.” – I think he means that we decide together on this whole package. On the subject of Lenzing AG I can still say: Lenzing AG is a company with 2 600 employees on site. Lenzing AG made a major investment in Lenzing two years ago, creating a hundred additional jobs. It will also invest €60 million in Lenzing in 2017 and 2018 and will also expand the research centre in Lenzing. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Exactly!]] Leo, you're always saying it's so important that the containers are not sent over the sea. I don't think that an additional TENCEL production plant in Lenzing will make it possible to sell the products in the area. The market is in the USA, and that is why it makes sense if Lenzing AG can be produced there and thus also secure jobs in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21024	Mr Köchl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21046	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Franz once again tried the Swiss example of the state rate. That is simply not the case, I would like to say that clearly. Then: In Switzerland pension provision is private, health care is private, health insurance and accident insurance are private. All of this is not calculated in the state rate! – Please only once as a discreet suggestion. This means that private pension schemes and private health insurance are paid, but they are not included in the government rate. You are all the while suggesting that Switzerland is a tax haven; that is not the case! – I just wanted to say that once. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klinger.]] We are talking about the SME report today, and I have noticed that after we have 300 000 individuals, the sector of individuals has fallen to about half. I would like to say this critically. What I would like to say positively is that for the first time, people with multiple forms of employment are being considered more closely. This will continue to develop significantly in the future. It is also very important that you see where the trip is going, because many get a problem with several health insurances. I would also like to mention this in order to bring this issue back again. We talk a lot about start-ups, that's always a nice keyword. I would like to inform the public that the announced start-up support for technology-oriented companies will be prepared in the 2017 budget. That is to say, from the announcement to the first payment of additional wage support to the Austrian state in about two years. In two years huge companies will be created in other countries, and you will only come from the announcement of implementation at this time. Well, start-up promotion is just a keyword. But I would like you to get away from these announcements. The Founder Country Strategy is also a nice analysis of the problems, but paper is well known to be patient. That is why I would like to call for these reports, which we present to each other every year, to be implemented once and not only to report and to have a continuation of the old situation every year. That's, I think, the basic problem in Austria. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21097	Mr Wimmer came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21118	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This debate on the mid-term report is really an example of how successful developments can be felt sickly and ill. I think that is not quite okay, because this SME report is an excellent presentation of our small and medium-sized enterprises. In reality, these are just those companies that are a very important pillar in the entire economic system. We've heard it today: These companies are also the largest employers, because a total of 2 million people, almost 70 percent of the employees, work in these enterprises. More than 60,000 apprentices are trained in a dual training system that can really be seen and is successful worldwide. Since 2008, 130 000 jobs have been created in these SMEs. This is a huge and important development. There is only one small problem I would like to mention: Many of these jobs have, of course, been part-time jobs, especially in trade – but after all, jobs have been created. Of course, it will always be a little more difficult to find a demarcation between self-employment and self-employment. It may be possible to draw stronger limits in the field of trade regulations. It is very important that the Federal Government promotes new foundations in the future more than before. € 185 million is planned for this purpose. There will also be easier access to the risk capital premium. This premium will also be higher than in the past. It is, therefore, a successful development that this report shows. I would like to say two more sentences in general to the apprentices: We hear again and again, especially from circles of industry, that it is difficult to get skilled workers. At the same time, however, we see that the industry is very sparse when it comes to creating training places. If industrial representatives were to be able to convince them of the way forward in the field of commerce and small and medium-sized enterprises, this would be a very big step in the future. Mr Klinger said he did not get a job in tourism. Mr Klinger, pay decent wages, then you will also find people who do your work!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21165	On a point of view, Mr Secretary of State Dr. Mahrer has spoken. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21186	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Austrian Federal Government, to thank all the Austrian Entrepreneurship colleagues for this excellent and excellent performance which they have provided under really difficult framework conditions – these have been addressed several times. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] These businesses give almost 2 million people employment in difficult times, which will still present us with decent challenges. Digitalization has already been mentioned several times in the Hohe Haus. On almost every occasion, an intensive debate is being held on the impact of this development on the This will be the case in various sectors. These effects will certainly be very intense in the coming years. It is precisely against this background, I think, that it is very wise to look at how the Austrian small and medium-sized business structure is set up in the international comparison. With all due regard for the colleagues of the Freedom Party, I would like to point out that you have to look beyond the edge of the soup plate. I was a little disturbed by the speeches in person that one can only see the inner Austrian context, but never draw a comparison in the European and international context. Of course, a whole series of these companies depend on value chains of large companies, which are exclusively active in international exports. A number of medium-sized enterprises – mainly the medium-sized enterprises – are also active exclusively in exports. It is therefore unacceptable to look exclusively at the Austrian conditions, but it is much more acceptable to ask: How can these conditions be compared with other countries? – This is the component I missed. Some of the criticisms raised by previous speakers from a different point of view are well justified and can also be found in the details of the report. It is not only the Federal Government itself that needs to deal with these points, but all the political groups in the House must work together and work on how to improve these conditions. One point is central, and if you look at the ten mentioned details of the Small Business Act in a European comparison, you will be clear: Financing is the point that is actually considered to be particularly critical. I am grateful to the House that a number of initiatives have been taken in this area in recent years. The Alternative Financing Act has been addressed. However, we all know that these are measures that take place step by step. They may be seen by some colleagues as a drop on the hot stone. Against the background of Basel IV, of course, it is necessary to consider how to ensure funding for the Austrian SME landscape in the future. I think that will be the main theme of the political debate in the coming years, because: Without fuel – and this is the financing – a necessary investment activity, namely investment for replacement investment and new investment, cannot be ensured. But again: We are not speaking exclusively of an Austrian context, but of an area that is heavily influenced by European and, of course, global levels. This is simply to be considered. I think it is only right and reasonable that such debates should also be conducted in this context and that we should then consider exactly what measures should be taken, with which mandates the government may have to be equipped, how to establish itself in a Community-Austrian way, also towards the European Union. I can only tell again and again that we are intensively debating the issue in the EU's Competitiveness Council. We are also progressing very successfully in alliance education with some other countries. We are also strongly committed to the fact that there could be no deterioration but, on the contrary, it could also be facilitated in the future when it comes to lending, the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is perhaps the very crucial point. It should also be noted that there are a number of points in which the Austrian SMEs are far above the average compared to other SMEs, namely: in the field of education and training and in the field of sustainability orientation. Apprenticeship training has already been addressed. I don't want to speak well at all. We know that there are farms that are hard to fight because there are changes in their sectors. There are farms that have to contend with increasing competition. This is economic life. As not currently active entrepreneurs, I can tell you: This is part of entrepreneurship. All those who have corresponding background know that. All the more important, of course, it is also to create a positive basic mood. Trust and psychology are particularly important in the economy, which is why it is also important not to bad talk about our country, because, finally, the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises do an excellent job for this republic, for the people of this country, in difficult times. They provide employment, they provide tax services and thus make a decisive contribution to prosperity and security in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21258	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Hanger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21280	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, I should like to sum up briefly: 330 000 small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria employ more than 2 million people, i.e. two-thirds of all employees in small and medium-sized enterprises. We also have a picture of the apprenticeship situation. These companies have created 130 000 new jobs since 2008. A code has not yet been mentioned – but then I am already in the end with my key numbers –: 150,000 of these companies are active in exports. I myself worked for several years in export. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Which export?]] If you are moving on export markets, it is not the case that products are bought because you are so friendly or so nice, but because you can offer competitive products. Our small and medium-sized enterprises are obviously able to offer competitive products. This is a very clear sign that we are very well placed in this area in Austria. But now I'm not here and I'm saying everything's great, it's all in vain. On the contrary: Of course, there are a number of challenges that have already been addressed. I would like to mention two of them. A challenge is certainly in the personnel sector. Let's put three things together: The number of unemployed in 2016 was as high as ever in Austria. We have never had so many self-employed, never so many people in employment. At the same time, we have high unemployment, the highest unemployment in the second Republic. Almost 400,000 people, depending on the count, are unemployed. When I travel in my region, I hear of almost every farm: We would be willing to take up staff at any time! This means that there is also a very strong demand for labour. I think you need to look more closely. This is also a question of making sense, which is also a question of the impact on active labour market policy by means of these enormous resources. Is that targeted? That's where I see a concrete point of contact. It's very important to me, too, that the topic of apprentices is very important. Managers in my region tell you that they simply don't get the apprentices they would like to train. Locally, they say that everyone today wants to go to higher schools. When I talk to the school director in my congregation, however, he also says that he has declining student numbers. I would now like to highlight the real problem of demography. We have the situation that the number of 15- to 35-year-olds in total has fallen sharply. We need to find answers to the challenges in demography. I see this as a key challenge in politics. Overall, I wish for more optimism for our economy. I always say, The mood is much worse than the actual situation. I have a deep conviction that the challenges facing us can only be met with a healthy portion of optimism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21318	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of this report III-325 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:32:39]] 27. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1326, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Electrical Engineering Act 1992 (ETG 1992) (1402 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21362	We're on the 27th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Lichtenecker came to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21389	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The current Electrical Engineering Act regulates the adaptation of the Austrian standardisation infrastructure in the field of electrical engineering. This sounds very technical, is also largely very technical, but let's take a closer look at it in detail! [[Abg. Hanger: Is also technical!]] I should like to comment positively on three points on this bill: The first is that free access to the standards should be improved and extended. The second is that, I think, it has an advantage to set up a conciliation body for disputes, so that the courts do not have to be involved. Thirdly, I believe that there will be an annual report in Parliament. That's the positive. We are skeptical of the following question: In times of deregulation packages and debureaucratisation, would it not be good, wise and future-oriented to focus on standardisation areas, for example at our Austrian Standards Institute? We now have this regulation, and a key criticism for our part is how the appropriate electrotechnical advisory board is composed. There are 23 members, 23 replacement members and nine representatives from the federal states. Who's out of this list? Three times you can guess! – The Federal Environment Agency. One no longer values the expertise on the environment and ecology, and that is what we think is a serious mistake. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can read the list to you, but I'm just taking out one point: ‘Electrical advisory board consists of experts in the field of electrical engineering’. Then the institutions from which these professionals come are listed. De facto almost all ministries are represented, but of course also the representatives of the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture of Austria. Real respect for the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture, but the question is whether it is really appropriate that they are also represented there, but not the Federal Environment Agency. This is not to be seen in this form, so the following request by my colleague, Mr Brunner, is tabled by my side: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are deeply convinced that the Federal Environment Agency has excellent expertise in the field of technology assessment. It is therefore necessary to include a representative of the Federal Environment Agency in the Electrical Advisory Board, and I would like to ask colleagues here in plenary to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21461	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21525	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21546	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The previous speaker, whom I would otherwise very much appreciate and which is reasonable in many things, has today mentioned three points on the grounds of her rejection, which she sees very positive, and two points which she does not see as positive. The cracking point is, as I have now heard, that there has been a reduction of this advisory board from 34 to 23 members – in the sense of economy, that things are concentrated, reduced. [[Abg. Brunner: It is not about the reduction, but how it is done!]] The number of members has been reduced and, of course, other organisations and areas are no longer represented. The fact that we are now saying that the environmental agendas would fall under the table is a bit great, because the Ministry of the Environment is of course represented. We know the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, who, of course, always vote when it comes to the enforcement or display of environmental interests. I'm actually too weak this argument, this line too thin, which is why one rejects this novel. The three positive aspects were mentioned at the outset. Of course I also see other positive aspects: With this novel, there is more transparency. We have set up in the law a conciliation body which receives the right of opposition and is responsible for complaints concerning the participation of standards. We have also adapted the definitions for standardisation in this area to the general standards, i.e. focus and merge. It has already been mentioned, it will become more transparent, and we have set up this conciliation body. I'm allowed to appeal to you again for you to join this novel. The positive arguments you have put forward should, in fact, highlight those negative aspects which are not negative for me. I would like to invite you to go with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21596	I call Mr Keck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21618	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In particular, the importance of electrotechnical standardisation for international competition and the internationally networked Austrian economy is increasing. Electrical engineering is now not only involved in all sectors of the economy, but also affects more and more areas of society and our daily life. At the same time, standardisation in this area is largely the result of a European and international process, as the scope of the electrotechnical standards of purely Austrian origin is now only about 10 percent of the total Austrian electrotechnical standard plant. Now there is a fundamental re-regulation and extension of Austrian standardisation. By means of a novel of the Electrical Engineering Act, the standardisation infrastructure is adapted to the existing circumstances. From the legislator's side there will be, in particular, a clarification of the supervisory system and a realignment of the financial structure, as well as facilitating access to electrical standards and cooperation in the standardisation process for SMEs. In concrete terms, the scope for the electrotechnical standardisation organisations and their rights and obligations should also be defined. The definition of the requirements for the granting of powers as well as the introduction of a statutory conciliation body are also essential. The federal financial commitment amounts to about €400 000. You see, this is an important and right innovation and an investment in the future of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21655	Next come Mrs. Dr.ck. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21678	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Last year we passed the Standards Act with the intention of limiting the flood of standards: an important step towards debureaucratisation. Today, the Electrical Engineering Act is adapted to the Standards Act. I would like to mention positively that the supervisory arrangements have been clarified, that the reorientation of the financial structure has been carried out, that access to standards has been facilitated for SMEs, and that transparency has been increased. Summa summarum is a good reorganisation of Austrian standards. I should also like to speak to the Advisory Board on Standards. In principle, standards concern not only producers but all of us. They can make our lives easier, but they can also limit it. I therefore have no problem with a broad involvement in this process. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: Does that mean you agree to my request?]] – Mr Lichtenecker, the Federal Environment Agency was hardly represented in meetings in the old advisory board, and there was also no opinion in the review, in which one complained about the departure. They may also take up representatives in individual cases if it is necessary. I think that's a good solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21713	Mr Mahrer, State Secretary, spoke on a point of view. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21734	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has all been said shortly in terms of content. However, it is a good opportunity for me to thank the team of the department that has worked out this law. This has a very special reason: Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Dittler, the head of the department, is in well-deserved retirement in a few days. He has been responsible for the electrical engineering department, safety of electrical equipment and installations for many years. It is his last law, and on this occasion the Federal Government would like to express its heartfelt thanks for these and the previous laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21765	This thanks the National Council. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1326. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. As announced, we come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Lichtenecker, colleagues on Z 13. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to him to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:44:58]] 28. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the Government Template (1350, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing an Innovation Foundation Education Act and amending the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Corporate Tax Act 1988 (Innovation Instituutungsgesetz – ISG) (1383 d.b.) 29. Point Report by the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the proposal from Philip Kucher, Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, BSc, Dr Ruperta Lichtenecker, Ulrike Weigerstorfer, Claudia Angela Gamon, MSc(WU), colleagues on the evaluation of Austrian research funding and on the Amendment No 457/A(E) by Mr Rouven Ertlschweiger, Mr MSc, colleagues on the evaluation of Austrian research funding, on the Amendment No 1821/A(E) by Mr Ulrike Refusing Torfer, Members of Parliament, on transparency in the allocation of research resources and on the Amendment No 1822/A(E) by Mr Ulrike Refuserstorfer, Members of Parliament, on greater efficiency in research funding (1384 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21896	We come to points 28 and 29 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21923	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! This foundation was promised as an educational foundation in November of last year. I hope that this past year, at least partially, has been used to bring meaningful parts into this foundation. The review period of just one week does not necessarily make me close to all too positive things. On the other hand, I must say that it has become common practice in some areas to make one week's assessment periods, not to take the rich ministry, not even the right committee. I do not know whether the Ministry of Education is not trusted by the ÖVP or why the Education Foundation is not brought into the relevant committee – but be it. € 50 million or € 25 million twice, divided into two years: This is basically a positive impact. If you look at what this is to be used for, you start to doubt again. The promotion of the practical orientation of the education system seems to mean that our education system is not sufficiently practical. Promotion of openness: Openness for what? Promoting impact and system orientation – also a nice gag. The promotion of networking also means that our education system is not enough networked. As a crown – that is what we would really expect – there is a map of educational institutions and a seal of quality. Mr State Secretary, that would actually be what we have wanted for a long time, that every school, and that can be broken down on teachers, is properly assessed. This is the so-called 360 degree evaluation, which is then also published. For the really good there should also be appropriate seal of quality. Then you can see from the beginning: What are the schools where you can give children with a real good conscience – that doesn't always have to be private schools, that can also be public – and what are those where the children dance and learn other things, but unfortunately not what others expect from these graduates to do? [[Abg. Lichtenecker: What colleague Deimek has with dancing?! For the second time today!]] Why do I mention that? – It would be relatively easy for each school to meet the expectations of the successor institutions and enter the curriculum. This means that schools with Matura take into account the requirements of universities, that for students who switch to higher schools after the fourth grade – primary school, secondary school, new secondary school – the requirements of the upper classes are taken into account and that the curriculum is accordingly passed down. But this is apparently not possible in our Republic. I therefore expect this money in the final effect to return to NGOs, BIFIE and similar institutions, and that the short path that is envisaged will remain in the educational bureaucracy. So it won't be with the education billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21960	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e21981	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I am sorry that my previous speaker only saw anything negative. It would be good for us to see and address the positive things, and the government template for the Education Foundation for Innovation is really a positive law. I also congratulate this innovation on the legislative process, where private and state can work together. The State provides funds for this foundation and private individuals also have the opportunity to contribute funds to the Foundation in order to ensure that innovation is implemented in schools. There are already a variety of projects, including those outside the education system that have first-class ideas. The schools would like to implement them, but they lack the financial resources to do so. With this foundation we create the possibility and at the same time ensure that they are not used for forest and meadow projects. There will be a scientific advisory board that will examine the projects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] We want lighthouse projects, we want excellence, and we want this knowledge, this know-how to go into the widest range, and we also want others to be able to benefit from it. Therefore, there will be a so-called map of educational innovations, there will be annual events, quality stamps will be awarded to meet the excellence in education – and the benefits that excellence offers, for example, when it reaches a width. [[Abg. Deimek:... for a long time!]] I think it is an implementation that will support us in many areas, in areas where the digital world has not yet arrived in school. She hasn't arrived in the infrastructure yet. That's another field where I think more speed has to come in. The digital world in knowledge transfer, also in application, is the theme of the future. Everyone understands something else under digitalization. It's not just about production, it's about complete business processes that are digitized, it's about knowledge transfer. If it is possible today to present to students at an American university an individualised, digitalized learning and teaching programme working with algorithms that enables them to make faster progress in their personal development or to reach a good goal at all, then I also expect that, in the implementation of this law, we will also have such results in Austria. I have already made another point today, for how important it is that we focus on individualisation in the education sector in particular. I say it again: The dual training system, in which individualization is lived, confirms this impressively. I thank you for this bill. Mr Deimek, I am, unfortunately, somewhat disappointed by your speech because I would be very pleased if all the political groups voted in favour of this bill. He's really good, and he's also an innovation in law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22024	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22045	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! For a long time, not only from our side, it has been criticized that there is a very, very large funding jungle in Austria. I come to TOP 29: We have managed to reach a common line in the Research Committee, and I would like to thank you very much for that. Unfortunately, this is not the case in all committees, but in the Research Committee we have managed to make a joint request. The increased funding for funding is intended to go directly to research and not to send it into bureaucracy. The increase in money is urgently necessary, it must be targeted, as only in this way can we support investments in our economy in the long term. This is once again nothing new, the Court of Auditors too has long, above all, also criticised the variety of actors in the funding jungle. Now we have succeeded: With this joint motion for a resolution, we will not only implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations, but we will also carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the Austrian research funding landscape, which is good that way, so that the money will actually end up where it belongs, and not sifting anywhere in the bureaucracy. Important improvements are to be made: A cost-benefit analysis will be developed in advance and a single database will be established in a further step. I am already looking forward to the completion of this first process. One word on TOP 28, on the Innovation Foundation Education Act, which is to be adopted: In principle, it is a good thing, yes, that is true, in principle we are not averse to it, but unfortunately there is a lot of bureaucracy in it again. Unfortunately, we have to vote against it, because there are already existing funding agencies. We cannot understand why we also want to involve a foundation, so unfortunately we will not agree. Unfortunately, we are not back at the point where we leave the bureaucracy outside and bring the money directly into education, into innovation. In principle, however, a thank you again to the Research Committee, which has once again proved that, when it comes to content, one can very well implement something together. This is once a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22088	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22109	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I see just now that Gerhard Deimek and the Secretary of State discuss intensively. My great hope is that there will be a solution. Education Innovation Foundation: I personally believe that this is a very important step that we want to take together today, and I really want to invite everyone to take. Let's be honest: We have now discussed the educational landscape in Austria for a few hours away from all the political positions that have taken place, the importance of education has underlined every party, but there is probably no other area here in Parliament in which any slight change – all that is not as it has always been in Austria – is immediately aroused uprooting storms and any change is seen as negative. Mr Deimek said that it would be nothing. Today we are trying to go a new way, to have courage to create new instruments. It is precisely where it is concerned, namely the people who live our educational landscape: in kindergartens, in schools, in research institutions, as well as in businesses. We want to pick up the people who are developing great projects, and that – quite differently, colleague Rejectorfer, as you said – is unbureaucratic. The people who develop ideas that have new, innovative educational approaches should have the opportunity to realize and learn from one another in a slim device; that is an essential point. What works in Upper Austria, you may also be able to roll it out on Carinthia, on Styria, on all the other federal states. That is exactly what we need in this area. It is precisely because everything new also brings with it a certain uncertainty that it is so important that we have modern approaches, which function in kindergartens, schools, businesses. to make available to all others via an educational map. This is a very important step for me, a great initiative that we are taking, and yes, we need courage to do so. We are the first in Europe to have this courage and to set up such an education foundation. We will not continue with the old patterns, but we will trust the people who stand in the classroom, in the kindergarten day after day, in the universities who are committed to education with all their strength! Let us believe in their ideas, and let us give them the opportunity to contribute and work together to achieve a better education system! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm really allowed to invite everyone. Congratulations on Sonja Hammerschmid and Harald Mahrer! I really think this is a very important development. Finally, perhaps a little positive: I believe that what we have done together in the Committee on Evaluation of the Austrian Research Funding Landscape is a very important step. We cannot rest on what has already been achieved. We need to look at weaknesses together and consider together how we can get even better, because education and innovation are the most central areas of the future, which is really about prosperity for Austria, about future jobs and opportunities for the future, especially for young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22160	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22182	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Evaluation of Austrian research funding, Agenda item 29: This evaluation is recommended by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors suggests that the Austrian research landscape be fully evaluated. The Court of Auditors, in its report on research funding, referred to the multi-structures at federal and national level. By the end of 2017, therefore, comprehensive optimization proposals concerning the structure and funding of research funding are to be drawn up. A cost-benefit analysis will also be drawn up next year with a view to the possible establishment of a research funding database. Research is important, ladies and gentlemen, very important for the future. Without research no growth, no new jobs without growth, and we cannot need that at this time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22203	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22224	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Innovation Foundation Act is a new way. We have defined various objectives here, such as increasing the innovation competence of all ages and contributing to increasing interest in education, science and research, as well as increasing education levels. These are all major challenges. And to be able to deal with big challenges in fact means always to have new ways. to have them. I believe that this Innovation Foundation Act is such a new way, and I therefore believe it is absolutely supportive. I am convinced that it is important that the state fulfils the central task of providing the appropriate financial resources for education, research and innovation, but I also think it is good to find a way of mobilising financial resources for this central area as well as for private individuals. In that respect, I believe that this is a good way, a first solution, and we will do an appropriate evaluation one year after the whole process is implemented, and we will look at what is successful, what is going on less well and how to adapt it. - That's the first one. The second is a joint request by almost all parties here in Parliament to evaluate the research landscape, the funding landscape, and research funding. That's a long time overdue. We know that part of research funding will be evaluated, but in the end it will need to be able to improve efficiency, a comprehensive evaluation, the right conclusions that will be drawn from it, and the appropriate framework conditions that will then be designed. Both points are to be welcomed and supported by the Green Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22264	The next item is Mrs Gamon's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22285	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I would first like to talk about the Education Innovation Foundation and then about the evaluation of research funding. These are two important things that we are debating here today. The educational innovation foundation – which has been mentioned many times today – has been a truly welcome thing, a praiseworthy project and has also been done exemplaryly for such things. I would like to add a few points on why it is so exemplary and why it is exemplary for how we can deal with such things in the future. On the one hand, this concerns the financing of: 50 million € from the bank levy could also be spent less sustainable, for example in order to finance a pension Christmas gift in accordance with the principle of foundry. We've seen it all lately. The Education Innovation Foundation, on the other hand, is a useful investment. For the first time, all four agencies of the federal government are involved, which is wonderful. This is positive because we can cover different areas. We can create what we do not have in the structure of the Ministries, namely a bridge over all areas of education – from elementary education to compulsory schools to tertiary and research funding – and for the first time provide everything under one hat. That's wonderful, that's something we could of course do differently, but with this foundation it's possible. It is located in the OeAD, which is positive because we do not create new structures. It is extremely important to point out that it is not always necessary to create new structures that it does not need. If it is possible to do so without new structures, you should do the same. The idea of raising private funds in the field of education, especially where it is extremely difficult for education start-ups to come up with fresh money to create start-up funding, is an extremely important idea. There is also the possibility of setting up sub-fundings, which can then also be examined by the Court of Auditors and which are also bound by the guidelines. That's safe, that's transparent and very exemplary. We find the conscious take-out of the influence of the federal government very exemplary. Of course, one can criticise the fact that a structure of the foundation is being created again, which is not covered by the law of interconnection. That's what we have in many areas. I believe that when it makes sense to use this legal form and what legal forms are in principle useful for different projects, we need to have a debate in principle, but we should probably do so on another day. The government template is basically good, and what I like best is that the social partners are not involved at all. That is also good, because they have absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It's very nice that we do it once, that's really wonderful. It is a pity that we need such a single initiative instead of making a major reform, as the Secretary of State and the Minister have been trying for a long time. That was also put back, but it is still positive. It is positive because it concerns organizations and institutions that we or some of us know too. A friendly organization, Sindbad – which makes mentoring for young students – or Teach For Austria, these would be institutions that could also apply for funds here. Especially with us in Austria, where it is quite clear that people who have money would invest in such institutions, it is difficult to build a culture in this regard. We have also discussed the fact that this – which you donate to such organizations and see it as an investment in the future of society as a whole – is difficult in science and research, because we simply do not have this culture. The Education Innovation Foundation is taking a first step here to make these organisations more attractive for investors. Finally, very briefly for research funding: It is important that we do this evaluation. There are a number of points that have been raised by the Court of Auditors, which we must make very urgent, for example, that the research rate should be viewed differently in principle, because it should not be considered in isolation, but in relation to quantifiable indicators of impact. I would like to stress this once again from the Court of Auditors' final recommendations. We must also say that we should address the problems that are obvious, and there are some in the field of research funding. In a few things, we actually don't have to evaluate anymore, because we probably know what you could change. Let us keep this in mind, because otherwise the evaluation will ultimately only become a fight concept in a quality debate, and it should not be. It should not be an excuse for moving important reforms to the long-term bank. But it's a good step, I'm glad you do. Let's see what's going on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22352	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Däderle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22374	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I too would like to comment briefly on both points. On point one, the Innovation Foundation, many meetings and praises have already been said, including the opposition, especially by Mrs Gamon. – Thank you very much, you hardly have to add anything to it. I would like to mention two more aspects to be considered. Aspect one: Of course, such a foundation is particularly fruitful when it meets institutions that are flexible and that can also develop their own initiative. This can be seen especially if they are more autonomous, i.e. the whole thing can also be seen in the context of the planned increased autonomy of the educational institutions, where there are still powers to obtain these really easily accessible and very targeted resources. During the research evaluation, I was pleased to note that once again it has succeeded, which unfortunately is rarely the case to bring the opposition and the government parties into a hat. I would like that more often, that has been very well done, that is gratifying. This evaluation is also important, it is endorsed by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors also criticises the fullness of the promoters. I would just like to say that the fact that we are now second in the EU with the research rate – behind Sweden and above all, also research-intensive countries – is a very encouraging result. This great result is therefore also due to the fact that we have many promoters and, for example, the federal states are also working hard here. There is even a competition for the best research rate between the research-intensive federal states. The Styria is here almost unobtainable in tour, Vienna is second place, and around the third place, Tyrol and Upper Austria strive. [[Abg. That's right!]] I find this race fruitful and therefore appropriate funding is appropriate here. In Tyrol we do it in such a way that we link the research funding and continue to pass on to the research agencies that are there – especially the FWF and the FFG – and that the corresponding funds are allocated together with these institutions and allow the projects to be evaluated through them. There are already good patterns of cooperation and patterns to ensure a very targeted and meaningful use of resources. I look forward to this evaluation with interest, but also with optimism. I would like to see the efforts we have already made and the successes at the moment – see this excellent second place – further fueled by evaluation, then we will take a good course in both areas, in education and in research.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22410	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Smart. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22432	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for talking to my home country, the Styria, as a leader in research funding. This also makes it easier for me to focus on other areas in my speaking time – I am of course pleased about it. I would also like to break a margin for evaluation in the field of research funding, not only because the Federal Government has agreed on this, but also in research, innovation and technology. The Committee agreed to this. I think this is right because, I believe, we are doing well to have control of the area of public funding, which is why we are talking about the use of taxpayers at least at a regular distance. It is important to me in this context that we also draw the right lessons from it, namely: In particular, what does our industrial location need in support in the field of research, development and innovation and in the field of research funding? I think that the evaluation will bring good results in order to further target and actively promote the industrial location. Since Mr Gamon has already tried to filter out a little what might come out of the evaluation, I would also like to take a look at the glass ball and say: I would not be surprised personally if, in particular, the field of direct research funding, i.e. the area of those projects which are mainly located in the research promotion society – the great team of Klaus Peiner in the FFG – would produce a very, very positive result, but we are waiting for the evaluation. I think this step is right, and we therefore support it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22474	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22495	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I also want to lose a few words on the Innovation Foundation Act. Here comes – please hold on! – Sounded praise, for an innovation was already the way of dealing with the House. I have rarely experienced that we have been invited to be informed by experts from the ministry, and that we have been informed in detail by several very competent and very friendly people from the ministry. That is how I imagine living parliamentaryism, and thank you very much for that. Unfortunately, this is not quite a matter of course. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] What, I think, is also good – Claudia Gamon rightly stressed it – is that all fields of education are affected. This allows huge possibilities of networking. I'm already excited about how this will work out. Just as this has been presented to us, there are no limits to creativity and ideas. I think that this can be a vital boost for our education system. I hope I do. There are really great initiatives for networking, and I can save myself on this too. What I hope for is that schools and other educational institutions will contact scientists, artists and artists that they may also contact other communities, perhaps also other federal states. I think all these possibilities are given here, and that is why this can really be a great thing for schools. I would also like to stress a few interesting points. The fact that we have not dealt with this in the teaching committee is annoyed. A skewer who thinks of the finances in this context, a skewer who thinks that perhaps some influential person was afraid that these could send €50 million to the Ministry of Education. We all know that we're just a few days ago. Budget has decided that in the Ministry of Education the amount of € 191 million has been lost. Therefore, perhaps the critical feedback will come at this point. As good as that is, as much as we now support it, the funding of the education sector does not go by, as we must start. It is gratifying that this is a very economical administration. I hope that this will be implemented in the same way, from this point of view, our congratulations. We will be very happy to agree on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22544	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking next time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22565	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What else is left of me? – No, I really like doing this: I would like to thank all the educational institutions for this innovative law or innovative model to promote innovation in the school sector and, I would like to stress this once again, because it will also be a lifelong learning issue. Children and young people benefit from this, but innovative forms of education in adult education also get a chance to join them and bring in their ideas. This brings me to my second point, which I would like to highlight once again in this educational innovation foundation, to the open-innovation approach. Yes, we decided in November to do so on 1 November. In December, a large public event with many participants. There is also an starting point, which will be implemented, namely that many people, whether they come from the field of education themselves, the economy, the non-profit sector or from the research sector, can bring in their ideas that they can help try new things out. This is a really great approach in this area. Another issue in this debate is, of course, the motion for a resolution. This is where Ulrike's refusing goal is due, with which we spoke in advance, thank you. We were able to really merge our two positions and the requests, because of course we are in the field of research promotion, and there is a need for such an evaluation in order to be prepared for the future FTI strategy, which will eventually also be in place. There are certainly double-tracks that are unnecessary, there is also a need for greater transparency, and of course you also have to look at the many bodies dealing with research agendas – critically, I say. It is very much being evaluated, we also receive every year the FTI report, in which there are always evaluation reports of individual research programmes, as well as the agencies themselves are constantly being reviewed for their impact objectives. For example, the FFG has received a good witness. I would also like to stress that research is, of course, a cross-sectional issue and that I am therefore in many cases glad that many people are dealing with it. Nevertheless, we also need to pay attention to efficiency, so this critical view of where it is appropriate to use and merge synergies. At the end of the year, because we are also concluding the FTI agendas, I would like to thank all the members of the FTI Committee. It has already been mentioned: I believe that this year we have put a lot on the way and that despite differences in content, we maintain a very good relationship with each other. Do you for a very warm thanks, and I hope that we can continue this 2017 as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22613	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22635	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Innovation Foundation education is another building block for the implementation of the education reform, and I am pleased that a very broad education concept is being used. Education does not start at school and hopefully does not end with school, but is a life-long process. In this respect, it is gratifying that several departments take responsibility in the performance of the education task. This is precisely what is happening here, too, by setting up, as it were, meaningful projects in the Driestirn Education, Research and Innovation, designed to accompany education innovatively and to set up appropriate innovation and motivational shifts. Because to be innovative, we need to be motivated, and this is what we need for the entire education system and for our whole social life. We need people motivated by education, because we know from many statistics that as high education as possible best protects against unemployment. And in this respect, this is also a very valuable contribution which several sites make here to ensure employment on the one hand and, on the other, to ensure that Austria continues to be successful in innovative areas in particular. I would like to thank all those who have been so constructively involved in this. May it continue in this sense too!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22665	The next speaker is Mr Bacher. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22686	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! It means that good ideas and innovations secure the future of our country. If we promote the spirit of ideas, that means that we actively contribute to the future of our country. The Innovation Foundation Education Act is a mosaic on this path. It is often the simple things of life that make everyday life easier for us and which sometimes arise from inconspicuous ideas; for example, the handle of the paper bags – you hardly believe it, 35 years ago there were not. Or a special stroller invented by students and then became a market racer. Not to be forgotten our smartphone, which we love all over, without which we can hardly get out, and also the other technical equipment, which belongs to it and which we Members use daily. Much that makes life easier for people has the origin of innovation and rich in ideas, and above all in the belief that the ideas can be implemented. In the case of technical achievements in particular, however, financial resources are also an essential factor. This valuable support can provide research funding. At least as important as the idea itself is that the funding is transparent and is constantly being evaluated. We agree with the law so that our country will continue to be on track and people will believe in its innovative power! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22722	Mr Mahrer, State Secretary, spoke on a point of view. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22743	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government is committed to clear transparency in the field of research promotion landscape. We therefore welcome, as discussed in the Committee on Research, Technology and Innovation, this approach to a broad, comprehensive evaluation. We also decided at the beginning of November in the Council of Ministers on the same thing, which is about an overall evaluation of all those subsystems that have not yet been considered networked. I am looking forward to the results, because I believe there are a number of efficiencys to be achieved in order to ensure the overall effectiveness of the financing system. At the end of the day, we are talking about hard-earned euros from taxpayers, who are to be used in the best way possible for the innovation system. Allow me to make a brief comment on the education innovation foundation. It has been mentioned that from the point of view we have tried to push forward a very visionary project in a very transparent and open process. I would like to thank Mr Smoliner for carrying out this procedure. We have asked from our team that this be made very open. I regret that the Liberal Group cannot go along with this, I have once again tried to exchange the arguments. This is actually very bad, because the construction of this foundation is in line with all the principles that should be pursued in the sense of a modern policy: It is extremely slender, it does not create additional structures, it is designed to be extremely need-oriented – namely, to meet the needs of creative innovators in the education system, namely, to obtain fast and unproblematic small amounts of resources for innovative projects that are not precisely distributed with the foundry can, but are to be invested in areas where it is currently most in the education system, namely, to deal with digitization, to do something for talent promotion and to seek research in areas where the future capacity of the education system is concerned. Going new ways, of course, also means taking risks. We do not know whether they will work in all projects, but that is exactly the idea: to evaluate according to very strict quality criteria and then scale successful projects. I would have liked to see an all-party agreement on such an innovative project. But perhaps this will be the result of the evaluation of the agreement of the Freedom Party. On this occasion I would also like to thank the former Federal Minister Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, who, a year ago, jointly launched the project with me. I think the intensive and open preparatory work can be seen, and I hope that after implementation into reality many, many very exciting projects will emerge, which will make a significant improvement in the Austrian education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22789	The next speaker is Mr Mayer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22813	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say two or three sentences on the subject, because, since I have been working here, I have been trying to create the opportunity to look at educational institutions from outside and innovating development, because I believe that a look from outside can be a decisive step to implement new, innovative ideas, which, in part, there can be some of which can also be created – Mr Denke has pointed out what can develop in the whole area of autonomy. I know how committed the previous Minister Gabi Heinisch-Hosek was in this area, who has tried with the Secretary of State to bring these things to the fore. This is another important step; it is important to me to say this today. From the remaining payment of € 1 billion of the bank levy, € 100 million is in the expansion of the university institutions, € 100 million in the focus area of basic research, precisely the € 50 million currently under discussion in the educational innovation foundation area, and we have discussed today over € 750 million for day care. What a little has gone down because the focus has been on disadvantaged children: It must not be forgotten that in the case of well-organised education – and this also must not be forgotten when accompanying external and new innovative measures and approaches and initiatives – the talented, talented have better opportunities to develop, to develop their creativity better, and that these things are actually integrated into an overall package. That is why this measure, I believe, is very important to stimulate education not only from outside but also to encourage and promote creative, new ideas, and I regret that FPÖ cannot go along with them again. Green, NEOS – Team Stronach unfortunately only joins the FPÖ again. I'm convinced: If the FPÖ were the government party, it would be the first to represent the glowing, what we decide today. You know this, Mr Deimek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22852	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Draft Innovation Foundation Act, title and receipt in 1350 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on item 29 on the agenda, namely the resolution on the evaluation of Austrian research funding to the Committee's report in 1384. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 184.) [[20:31:26]] 30. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government proposal (1263, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Food Management Act 1997 (1413 d.b.) 31. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1911/A(E) by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on reform of the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH (1412d.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22941	We now come to the points 30 and 31 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Pirklhuber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e22968	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the evening, one should reap, as it were, the fruits of the work of the talks and negotiations which have been conducted all day long, from a law that is not necessarily prominent in the issue, namely the Food Management Act, a law which is intended for crises, emergencies, disasters, that in such scenarios the Austrian people are sufficiently supplied with food, that measures can be set up that a steering committee intends to propose these measures to the Minister, and the Minister can also enforce and implement them in the event of urgency. This law is a federal law and it needs this harmonisation, it is therefore a two-thirds matter, and we have, of course, also considered what we can do in time to take account of developments. We already had a very interesting and very constructive debate on the problems of the global agricultural market: Theme Palm oil, fat imports et cetera. And the question is long-term: How will food security, food sovereignty take place over the next ten years? Will it be easy to maintain crisis prevention through domestic production? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very, very central point, and I am convinced that the Austrian people have great interest in ensuring that this crisis prevention can also be ensured by Austrian agriculture. There will therefore be an amendment which will be distributed. I would like to give him a brief explanation: Mr Auer, Mr Preiner and I have jointly implemented some essential new elements, improvements, in the law. These improvements are essentially related to the participation rights of this House. The Members of this House, the parties represented in the main committee, will also be given rights of participation within this Steering Committee, and I think this is a good and right way in the sense of transparency and ultimately joint control. The second thing we are new about here is that food sovereignty will also be an important objective of this Food Management Act. So, nutritional sou... In addition to being a key element of change, the Steering Committee will have the task of dealing annually with market and price reporting, with price developments, but above all with producer price developments and the cost of production of Austrian agriculture, with production developments, with developments in these markets, with a view to precautionary policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am already a bit proud of the fact that Parliamentaryism is again showing a flag here, in that we are building on the subcommittees that we had in the Committee on Agriculture, where we have concerned ourselves with the meat and milk market, and that there is often no transparency at all, that we actually need a lot more debate on these structural developments, which in the medium term also have an impact on the markets, on security of supply, that we can now also implement this in this Food Management Act. I think that's a good way, but of course it's just a step, a common step in the right direction. Further steps, Mr Federal Minister, are absolutely necessary, and we have also given you the opportunity – and this is also important – that you take action in the precautionary field even before the disaster has occurred. I'll just give you an example so you can imagine what it's all about: Seed is also included. Seed is the basis of production, we need precautions so that we do not get into the situation that we no longer have sufficient seed, the quality of the seed no longer agrees with et cetera; all these are precautionary measures so that in seven, eight or ten years, no matter how climate change develops, we will continue to have Austrian food production from a farmer's hand. - That's one. Ladies and gentlemen, the positive first, and then, of course, comes the critical one, and that requires further steps. I must thank Mr Schellhorn for the initiative: A reform of the AMA law is urgently needed, no question at all, Mr Jannach. In order to improve the functioning of the AMA in terms of the efficiency of this organisation, I am firmly convinced that we have a great deal of work in front of us. We have here the Court of Auditors report on the AMA, on the agricultural market in Austria, and this Court of Auditors report will be discussed in detail in this House. If this report comes in here – I am saying now – it will again need a common initiative to implement the measures so that this institution will finally regain both the confidence of farmers – for that is what it no longer has – as well as the confidence of taxpayers, consumers and consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, just one last thing to conclude: Agromarkt Austria GmbH has a Supervisory Board, which is appointed by two persons – from two persons: Mr Leutner and Mr Griesmayr. Both are the boards of the mother, the agricultural market Austria. These two board members order a seven-member Supervisory Board. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a curious spectacle when you know that one of these directors was Secretary of State under Minister Pröll and then came to the board of the AMA. And as the board of directors of the AMA, he then appointed Minister Pröll to the Supervisory Board. So, ladies and gentlemen, I don't need to interpret at all, that's political friendly economy par excellence. Such a thing is simply impossible! This is no longer a state of practice, I think. The House is called upon to create a legal basis for this to be cleared out. We're going to do this. have an opportunity, and I am convinced that we will have the majority on our side to make a reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23037	The amendment was presented in its main guidelines, is sufficiently supported, has been properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23139	The next speaker is Mr Auer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23160	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with the first part of Mr Pirklhuber's statement. We have been negotiating for a long time, all of us have tried to find a solution with the involvement of experts. And I also believe that it was possible to come to a solution in the sense of a positive parliamentaryism, so that Mr Federal Minister could also take precautions in order to act and not only react afterwards. This is a crucial point once. The fact is that every human being likes to push out possible disasters. Who would have thought there could have been a disaster like the tsunami back then? Who would have thought that a flood could pose such a threat in Austria a few years ago? And no one, or almost nobody, is thinking that there could be a disaster in the production of food, too, that perhaps the safeguarding of the diet might one day be called into question. Of course, we guarantee fuel safety, as there are corresponding storage capacities. We are very much trying – and there is thanks to the ministries – to ensure internal security, we are very committed to external security, and of course we also have to respect military security accordingly. But the food security is something that... [[Abg. Katzian: Social security!]] – Yes, social security, of course, of course! Austria is a model example of this. Many countries envy us. But who is actually securing food security? [[Abg. Loacker: Now you don't even have to pay the social security contributions yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this can also be a difficult question: In the event of a crisis, how can high-quality food be secured? – It is said that the farmers produce them anyway, that is not a problem. It's not like that! Also the gastronomy can only provide high-quality food if the original production is guaranteed. There is a partnership, that is undisputed, but of course nothing is. It may be difficult to calculate some factors such as a dramatic climate change. For the possible crisis case – which no one wants to talk about, no question at all – one should definitely be assured. A good fire brigade also has operational plans in case of cases when an operation is necessary. Therefore, this revision of the Food Management Act is an important story. On the question of AMA Marketing: Mr Pirklhuber, I believe that Mr Blass is really, in a profound way, a list of the areas of problem which have answered the questions and which are also intended to create those opportunities and to eliminate shortcomings. Therefore, one should not pretend to be perfect here, but the fact is that the effort is really there to eliminate possible mistakes, possible developments that have existed. One thing we should also know: We have massive trade chains on the one hand, where obviously no one looks at a cartel authority, which market power is there and which advertising budget is available that goes into hundreds of millions. On the other hand, the farmer is the farmer with his/her products and therefore also needs the AMA marketing. The AMA seal is something we should be proud of, and there was an excellent work also in the interests of farmers. That was held once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Germany bitterly regrets the resolution of the agricultural marketing agency seven years ago, because it no longer has it. We got her! What to improve is to improve, no question at all, but bad talk is not appropriate. The best advertising, however, is when the Austrian consumer – and this is actually so given in most cases – takes on domestic food, where he knows that regionally also guarantees the origin, which ensures quality. He thus not only ensures the farmers the outcome. It also secures jobs for itself in particular, because if agriculture is able to invest, it is invested in the regional economy, there are orders, there is the safeguarding of farms, there is security also for the workers there. After all, Austrian agriculture secures 530 000 workers in the downstream and downstream sectors. It's going to be forgotten some time. In principle, however, the Austrian is a patriot – for this we thank ourselves! The more Austrian food gets, the better. If it were to succeed in moving 10 percent more of Austrian food, 22 000 jobs could be secured. It is important to note that agriculture is a major factor, especially in view of the figures that are/was published in various media today/today – in other areas minus 2 100 jobs and so on. She's a country economy!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23216	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23260	Mr President. Estimated Minister! My contribution to AMA Marketing is naturally linked to my request. What is reliable, whatever the Permanent burner is: The permanent burner is burning money here! I must explicitly protect Mr Blass, and I must also explicitly protect Mr Rupprechter: This AMA story was before that time. But it is the thirty-year policy of your responsibility, and you, dear Jakob Auer, have been in Parliament since 1983, longer than the Ministry of Agriculture has occupied you. [[towards ÖVP]] Since then, you sit inside and have made one of them: a friendly economy and a client policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is the problem because it is at the expense of the taxpayer! The tax payer is charged, and I would like to add once again once again what it is all about. Let's get out of here a couple of points! I don't think there were any invitations to tender for poster advertising, cinema spots et cetera, for creative performances, you don't even have to mention, that's under the table, no one takes it seriously at all. But what is to be taken seriously – and I would like to quote from the Court of Auditors' report here: ‘The AMA Marketing gave (...) total rd. EUR 2,53 million in individual associations in order to provide them with the necessary own resources for participation in support programmes. The ‘Verein Kuratorium Kulinarische Erbe Österreich’, with which the AMA Marketing was linked through personal links, provided contributions without correctly concluded funding contracts. There was no agreement between AMA Marketing and the ‘Agreement for the promotion of high-quality foods’ on the content of the projects to be dealt with or on the level of the AMA Marketing’s financial contribution and on their settlement arrangements.’ That's tax money! This is the tax money that is spent without any consequences. That's where they say: Yes, there have been mistakes, yes, it's okay anyway, the mistakes won't happen anymore. – This is where tax money was used, and here not only your hat burns! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Not only does your hat burn, and if you mention the contributions, I would like to quote once again from the Court of Auditors' report, which unfortunately is right and where it will become an 'AMAGeddon' for agriculture, for the agricultural policy of the EIAP. Now I'm going to add: “AMA Marketing worked closely with the agricultural chambers and carried out marketing measures with them (information from farmers, use of seminar farmers, school milk, etc.). Written agreements between AMA Marketing and the Chambers of Agriculture on the implementation and settlement of joint marketing measures and projects (...) – at least €950 000 – were ‘missing’. This does not look good for the agricultural chambers at all! This is because the farmers pay contributions twice, and then the money is pushed back and forth in a transparent way. Because Franz Eßl says it's not a tax money – where I'm going to correct it sometime: It's tax money! But you even take it away from your farmers and move it back and forth so that it becomes so opaque that you may be able to switch an advertisement somewhere you don't need to write out. All the more clearly, I would like to conclude by saying: So far as I am vehemently opposed to the gifts from social security for the farmers, I am so much in favour of this agency doing the best possible work for the farmers, and that as far as possible in depoliticized form! Everything else is fraud on the taxpayer. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I would like to stress this once again: Fraud on taxpayers – a thirty-year-old EIA policy, a false EIA policy on agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23338	Mr Preiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23359	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We are now adopting the Food Management Act, since the old one expires at the end of this year. In this respect, a new decision is necessary for the next ten years. A two-thirds majority is also required. I would like to express my thanks to the Greens for having, once I think, left a minute before twelve to actively contribute to this decision in food supplies. This is essential insofar as it is necessary to ensure food and food security for the Austrian population from national production in exceptional situations, especially for those who do not primarily live in the country but in the city. This law also serves to: Ensuring food and food in crisis situations, in a case of crisis, which I hope will never occur. I am just coming from a General Assembly of the Civil Protection Association. We have also been working on this subject there. It is about stockpiling and having enough water, if necessary, to be properly equipped. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to address briefly the situation of AMA Marketing GesmbH; it has been mentioned by my previous speakers several times today. The Court of Auditors is a control body of the National Council and has indicated in its review 55 recommendations necessary to address the corresponding inconsistencies in the AMA Marketing GesmbH. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: A lot!]] In the last Committee on Agriculture, we have also tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who is responsible for this matter, to be accountable here in the National Council for the next discussion on the AMA Marketing GesmbH activity report and to ensure that these 55 recommendations are implemented accordingly. We also call for all farmers, including cereal farmers, to make AMA marketing contributions. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I look forward to a positive report from the Minister for Agriculture. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23400	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23421	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing a government proposal to amend the Food Management Act in 1997. With this law, Austria has a legal basis for extraordinary legislation. The situation in the crisis. This law is until 31. It will now be extended for a further ten years on December 2016. An important institution: This law allows the Federal Government to take action in cases of crisis, in the case of bottlenecks of food to feed the population. Ladies and gentlemen! Royal tasks are included in the respective section, in this case in the agricultural sector, and in Parliament, as Mr Schellhorn mentioned, and should not be outsourced. Hopefully, in ten years' time, this law still has a meaning and effect and a steering effect as regards basic food. If farmers die as they do now, I doubt that this law will continue to apply in ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23448	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23469	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! You remember what happened on the 26th. What happened on April 1, 1986? - That's right, Chernobyl! Chernobyl, an occasion for an absolute food crisis that we handled in Austria in such a way that thanks to God, the least of them were too badly affected in their quality of life. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Chernobyl!]] [[Call to the SPÖ:My son was born!]] [[Further calls.]] Our Secretary General of the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture, Josef Plank, was then a member of the Lower Austria Chamber of Agriculture. He went through the country with the Geiger counter at the time and tried to find the un taxed milk. At that time, we managed to supply milk to the smallest children in such a selective way that it could be delivered as its own, absolutely non-irradiated baby milk. An example of a possible crisis! For this, there will continue to be the Food Management Act, modified with some nuances, but in any case as a functioning law for the emergency, where the Minister has to intervene, out of power of ownership, out of power of disposal, and with all seriousness the state power is using to secure food for people in the event of an emergency. This is a law for the really brutal emergency, and it is not a law for a beautiful weather Sunday or for the employment of politicians. Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting that, especially in this debate, we are discussing this so serious law for the absolute emergency in food safety at the same time as the law for the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH. This is a company owned by the AMA, which is financed by the farmers' money. I emphasize: The farmer! Mr Schellhorn, I must tell you [[Abg. Steinbichler: Not from the farmers! Milk and meat farmers!]] There's no tax money inside, it's the farmers' money, the farmers are funding it. This AMA Marketing GesmbH is there to explain food, to explain its tastyness, to inform about food and to encourage consumers to choose quality-safe foods from Austria. The quality assurance is also a task of this GesmbH. That means, trust is the subject. If you look at the Court of Auditors' report, you will see that all issues relating to the core tasks of the AMA are not even mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report because they are dealt with in such a proper manner. [[Abg. Steinbichler: (Applause) Bravo!]] All that is in it are themes that have been cut off for a long time and do not even have to touch someone. It has touched me very much on the way in which a very embarrassing debate has taken place in our Committee on Agriculture, because it is usually more disciplined in the Committee on Sound, but a few colleagues have, so to speak, completely lost. Mr. Michael Blass, head of the Agromarketing GesmbH, was able to clarify everything in a calm tone for two hours, and at the end of his report he received applause in the committee because he had so well explained everything. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Eyes to and Through!]] Now, of course, those who did not behave well at the time are trying to make a story out of it. But that's probably the tragedy of this house. Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the agricultural marketing of farmers' money, we give you information about food, and if we make sure that we can do everything for them in time, in any case, then it is about connecting security to prevention. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Are you a farmer's representative? What are you?]] [[Further call-ins]] But the best provision you can make is that you let the Greißler live in your village, let the host live in your village, and let your farmers live, that you go to the coach basket, that you buy from the direct marketer, and that we here in the High House ensure that the Austrian agriculture in its width, with many farmers, in many regions with the specialties, can secure our livelihoods. That's the best way to take care, I'll call you. In order for us to be able to do this permanently, it is necessary to make the origin of the product recognizable and secure, and to have a bill for everyone to know where it really comes from, which is why I would ask you to talk about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23591	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23612	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to begin by expressing my pleasure at the success of the parliamentary negotiations in developing the Government's draft on the Food Management Act and thus ensuring the necessary constitutional majority. I would like to thank all the constructive forces here in the House who have contributed to this, and I am glad that the amendment, which, of course, fully supports me, has succeeded in creating the basis for the crisis – which we naturally hope will never occur – to have taken precautions and to have the necessary instruments. I am pleased that this is living parliamentaryism, and I believe that we can all be a little proud of it. The second report we are discussing here, on the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH.: We really have a very comprehensive debate, I would like to say an exhaustive debate in committee. The debate with the managing director Dr. Michael Blass on all matters – including those of the Court of Auditors report with the 55 recommendations – has been conducted very openly and in great detail. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would say once that all the questions have been really exhaustively answered. That's very important to me, too. Transparency is a very big concern to me. I think today we can really say with fug and right, as has been said in the debate: It has not been answered unanswered, all questions have been clarified, no points have been left open. I would like to quote the two spokesmen of the opposition: Mr Pirklhuber said: The managing director's information was detailed, concrete and correct. Mr Jannach has acknowledged the contribution of the managing director as a truly informative and constructive debate. I also thank you for this recognition. Mr Schellhorn: The eco-social agricultural policy is a 30-year success story. You're right. That's how AMA Marketing is. The work of AMA Marketing is a more than 20-year success story. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] If in these more than 20 years we could actually tenfold the agricultural exports of Austria, then this has been a very important contribution of the AMA Marketing Society. I look forward to the next 20 years of AMA Marketing, which really makes a significant contribution to securing the rural family farms in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23658	The next item is the report by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23679	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today we are adopting an amendment to the Food Management Act, by the way, on 31. ==References== Of course, I am pleased that a two-thirds majority has been achieved today in the negotiations, because that is what the Constitution says. However, the Food Management Act covers three aspects: This includes, of course, the economic governance laws, which is the Food Management Act, the Supply Security Act and the Energy Steering Act. So there's much more in the room here if we didn't decide on this law today. It is all the more surprising to me that there should be a law that the two-thirds majority need for times of crisis. Negotiations that are going around here in this hall are also surprising. Unfortunately, God’s own political calculation has always appeared in these negotiating techniques. In fact, we should all be prepared unanimously for crises, which is also our duty as Members of Parliament. There should not be a small political clause here, no matter who sits where, in which steering committee or in which board of directors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We're talking about people, people in Austria, and it's our duty to help them when it really comes to crises. Therefore also a warm thanks for the advance that we have come so far at all. Thanks also to those – including the Greens – who have finally contributed to this law decision. But I would like to warn about the future: This law is also valid for only ten years, and it can change the political constellation. There can be many parties here, and I look at that, like then a two-thirds majority for a crisis staff will be installed! So really take it to heart: We are here for our people, and also for the protection of our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23734	The next item is the report by Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23755	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schellhorn, in his remarks, has a bit confused, namely what the taxpayer brings in, and the marketing contributions made by the farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I am therefore unwarranted because I have not long agreed to everything the AMA does, but I would not want Mr Schellhorn or other colleagues from this direction to determine how my paid marketing contributions will eventually be used. I really wanted to avoid that. Now to another point, to the Food Management Act: It has already been mentioned by the previous speakers that this is a law which is to be taken in a real crisis and which has been decided for ten years. It therefore now has an expiry date, and for this reason an extension and a re-decision are necessary. There are, of course, several ways of meeting a crisis. There is also the possibility of saying: Food sovereignty is something very important, we need to maintain that. It would certainly be appropriate for this to be a flourishing peasantry, i.e. a land-based management by rural family farms. This is important to me, and with this amendment, this food sovereignty is at least literally held. This food sovereignty must be respected and respected accordingly. This law concerns food, drinking water, but also plant protection products, feed, seeds and plant products. Other groups of goods are governed by another law, the Ministry of Economic Affairs's Supply Security Act, which was unanimously adopted in this House a few weeks ago. Now I'm with my previous speaker, and I'm allowed to join him: This crisis prevention or the possibility of reacting in a crisis would really have to be outside party policy, and we really would have to decide that. It is quite interesting to look at how parties can change over time. I chose the protocol ten years ago. The SPÖ and the ÖVP have always been in favour of this law. I quote a speech by the FPÖ at the time: "The refusal of the Greens' consent does not appear to be justified here. Perhaps you can still consider this and still ensure a broad consensus until decision-making is taken, because in reality that should be our concern.” – Mr Scheuch said at the time. Now it is true that Mr. Jannach just wanted him to get a board of directors in the AMA; then he would have agreed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] So, party policy against crisis prevention, that's... It is a reprehensible matter, and this should be avoided in such matters.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23831	The next item is the speech by Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23853	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Finally, I should like to sum up once again that the Food Management Act regulates the supply of food to the population in times of crisis. I think this is very good, even though we are now living in a time when a large part of the population does not have to worry, because food is fully available. That is why it is important that there is a legal regime and that it is also extended so that it is clear how people can be supplied with food throughout the world in the event of a crisis. We must not forget one in the whole discussion: In the past, food bottlenecks have also existed in our region, in our country. Thank God this is now more than half a century ago, and we are now in a happy position not to experience such situations. I hope we don't experience this either in the future. Nevertheless, it is important to take precautions in the case of the case, because in times of crisis, factors such as fear and stress are responsible for people being insecured. I think you can be a long way off in the area of fear when it comes to food supply. I think it doesn't always have to be a war situation that leads to scarcity. There are situations in connection with natural disasters in which a form of scarcity may be present in the areas of crisis, or, as mentioned today, in connection with reactor accidents, which has been shown in the past. I think it doesn't always have to enter the worst-case scenario, but we should all be aware that certain scenarios aren't as far away as we often think. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the most important thing is that we are well prepared and that we can give security to the population in this area. I am therefore deeply convinced that we are taking a very good course with the change of legislation, and we will be very happy to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23896	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e23923	Madam President. Mr. Minister! [[The speaker shows the Federal Minister Rupprechter a board on which a cargo ship is pictured and then places it on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Can we not pass this on and everyone looks at it?]] – Yes, Mr Klubobmann, we can do that too, but it is also from a distance. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Haven't we seen that before?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions – now after work! With great interest I have now followed this discussion and deliberately wanted to hear the speeches of the speakers before me, for example the speech by a President of the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture. That's what's called "representation of interest," Hermann Schultes! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You are, I believe, still not aware of what function you are in. But I am really excited that you mentioned the Committee, because it was really embarrassing what you gave in this Committee on Agriculture – which you said was so well debated – by you, as you thanked the AMA, how exemplary the function is, and how you told the Court of Auditors. These 45 proposals by the Court of Auditors are not justified, you say, as head of the representation of interests and also as head of the Lower Austrian farmers. [[Abg. Schultes: I didn't say that!]] I'm telling you, this criticism is more than right. It is simply embarrassing, my dear colleague Schultes, if farmers have to make € 22.3 million in AMA marketing contribution. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] – This is the problem that he cannot concentrate. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Oh, yes,...!]] [[Cheerfulness and applause with the Stronach team and with representatives of NEOS and Greens.]] If farmers have to pay 22.3 percent AMA marketing fee and then we have prices like 40 years ago at the farm – where are you? What world do you live in? You said that Mr Blass and his predecessors made this so excellent. Yes, I heard him at a meeting of the Metzger- und Fleischrinnung in the Chamber of Commerce in Wels, where he spoke, and also of the success story, as did the Minister. He's also talking about a success story. I just don't know where the success is! – Then you have to explain that to me later. But he then spoke of an added value strategy: The AMA brand is an added value strategy, the AMA brand has ten unique features, the AMA brand is the only valid state seal. – And then we have prices as in 1974! Why can you ride such a super-sealer action? Why is the AMA seal on it? In 1974 one paid for a kilogram of carpentry in action 59,90 Schilling. That's 3,95 €. [[Interlocutors Rädler, Fekter and Walter Rosenkranz.]] Mr. Schultes, if you were to read the newspapers, you would know that 2016 – at minus 25 percent discount on the weekend – cost the Schnitzel 3,99 €. Is that the added value strategy? Is that the success, Mr. Minister? Say this to farmers outside or talk to active farmers again! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I deliberately took the picture of this ship and showed it to the Minister, because maybe he can explain it to me. [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]] Your appeal was very good, Mr. Arbitrator, when you said: Let me take a look close by! – I don't know either: Is the ship in the port or is it just leaving? Does it bring something or does it bring something? I can give you a brief insight into an advertising brochure; the hoteliers are particularly happy to buy there. [[The speaker places a table on the speaker’s desk, on which a price list is shown and under the heading “Steak World Champion” several priced pieces of meat can be seen.]] Mr Obernosterer, look out! We deliver freshly from six continents, it's called. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's too small!]] - I'll give it to you. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, I don't see it!]] We deliver fresh from six continents! Can you imagine that? In a country where we are said to have 150 percent production, we have beef from six continents! Is the world economy? Is climate protection? Is that health protection? Is the market economy? What's that? Or is this the destruction of domestic markets, the destruction of domestic agriculture and consumer fraud? – You can answer that. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] Because there is an intermediate call for meat identification: You can already find out in Vorarlberg! They've shown me how they're doing. You can also tranship. I would like to say that you do not know if they were German pigs. It could also be Danish pigs loaded in Germany on a German truck and in Vorarlberg on an Austrian one. 2.2 million pigs are imported to Austria for slaughter, and the same meat equivalent is imported in the form of processed meat. That's how the fine food shop Austria looks! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I would like to say briefly to the Food Management Act what it is all about here. Yes, it is really necessary that we make a crisis prevention plan, but as we know, it has already been rejected three times in this House. The proposal from our group on the food crisis plan has been rejected here three times, and it is therefore not credible that roses should be scattered here and that it should not continue without them. So it goes on, but that's how it's easier for the government. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] – I am already at the end of my speech, Madam President. That is why we are making a request. Colleagues Auer has addressed 22,000 jobs. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] Complement! There are 22 000 domestic jobs to be created if we buy more domestically if the patriotism of consumers is more promoted. We want to support that. Today we have often heard how difficult it is to recognize the real Austrian quality for the consumer. We must not take the consumer around the nose and say: Dear consumer, you have to decide! That won't help if palm oil is inside the Austrian coat of arms. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Today, the Minister has given the floor to transparency. We ensure transparency in the food label jungle! – We ask for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24138	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24229	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We are now voting on Agenda item 30, draft federal law amending the Food Management Act, in 1263 of the Supplements. Hiezu, representatives of Auer, Preiner, Dr. Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional request. I am therefore going to vote on the supplementary proposal and, finally, on the draft law. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Auer, Mr Preiner, Mr Pirklhuber, Mr President, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the introduction of new points 1a, 5a, 5b and 7a. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is generally accepted. At the third reading, I also expressly note the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, ladies and gentlemen, on the Quality Seal Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 31. We shall first come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1412 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1911/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also vote on the resolution on the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH attached to the Committee's report 1412. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it to give a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 185.) [[21:21:22]] 32. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1361, p._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Environmental Promotion Act and repealing the Federal Act providing additional energy efficiency resources (1417 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24364	We're coming to the 32nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Rauch, has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24391	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! It should be noted that additional energy efficiency resources are being provided, which, of course, will also focus on renewable energy. It's just one thing: This proposal for a law, Mr Federal Minister, is, as you yourself know, two years too late. The amendment of the Environmental Promotion Act should be developed to provide additional funding for the federal energy efficiency package and to implement domestic funding. It is also intended to ensure that the new support rail for energy efficiency can be handled in terms of content with domestic environmental promotion policies, in terms of management, efficiency and under the best possible use. Unfortunately – as already mentioned – this innovation comes by two years too late. The review period, which is also a main criticism point from our side, has only eight days – eight days well noticed! ............................................................................................................................................................ There are also numerous opinions, for example from the Government of Tyrol, which explicitly argues that the assessment period is too short and the draft revision is poor. The Chamber of Commerce, the Umweltddachverband, the Court of Auditors, all criticise the assessment period and, of course, the contents of this law. Mr Federal Minister, if legal review periods exist, we should also comply with them accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In view of all the opinions we have, I would like to take one out, namely those of the Vorarlberg State Government. It states quite explicitly that a new Commission to advise the Minister of Economic Affairs on the energy efficiency promotion programme is to be set up under the law. The Office of the Vorarlberg Government criticizes the vehement. You could form quite fluffy: If you don't know what's going on, you're making a working group. - You have to say: Mr Federal Minister, we remain efficient and economic and we are trying to use the funds to the best possible extent. The Chamber also criticises that 40 percent of the funds are explicitly used only for budgetary measures; only 34 percent come in renewable energies. Most recently – not quite unknown to you as a Tyrolean –: The Government of Tyrol has rejected this draft on its own initiative. As we are already in the process of innovation of environmental promotion: When, Mr Federal Minister, are you finally committed to eliminating this emissions trading? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why am I bringing this to this issue now? – At the last Environmental Committee meeting, the Managing Director of the Federal Environment Agency explicitly mentioned in a demand that this emissions trading in the CO2 sector would not do much good. [[Mr Brunner's call.]] He does not bring us any environmental policy measures. In this respect, we have no added value, neither in Austria nor at European level. Who benefits from it? – Finally, it is only coal power plants and nuclear power plants, and these plants should actually be turned off the proverbial juice. Mr Federal Minister, I am not going to get tired of contacting you here in the House and at the speaker's desk in order to stop this trade accordingly. [[Abg. Brunner: Where do you decide? Where is that regulated?- Oh, my God!]] Trade is ineffective, does not bring any environmental action and therefore belongs to discontinued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24446	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24467	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, this is a federal law that amends the Environmental Promotion Act and repeals the Federal Act providing additional energy efficiency funds. When one hears “be lifted up, ” one might think that something is falling away. This is easy to explain: It is not so, but it is just being incorporated into another law. Thus it was originally planned for the creation, because in 2014 this funding programme was established within the framework of the energy efficiency package, but at the same time the mission was also given to the two ministers, Environment Ministers and Economic Ministers, from our home, to incorporate this new funding rail into the UFI, the so-called domestic environmental support. [[Abg. Brunner: That's two years ago!]] - Yeah, and that's what happens now. Article 5 of the energy efficiency package is therefore also being re-regulated in this way. In addition, we can continue this package with targeted support or, as it has been mentioned, we can also increase it. First, the commitment framework for water ecology will be extended until 2017. It is about floodwaters and their ecological condition, which is also improved, which always confirms excellent data to us. This frame amounting to € 140 million was spent until 2015, it has not been used up to about €4 million, and we are extending this commitment frame by two more years. [[Abg. Brunner: These are the rest!]] This ensures that funds are available at the beginning of the second water management plan. It also deals with the facilitation of rehabilitation in the urban water sector. This is an important area for our communities when it comes to rehabilitating the sewers, especially when it comes to rehabilitating treatment plants over and over again. There has been a fixed date in the law so that only all those plants whose construction began before the 1st century could be promoted. ==References== This is now changed to 40 years of age in this law. In this context, it is important to point out that a commitment framework of €80 million has been adopted in the financial compensation, which will then be valid from 2017 to 2021. [[Abg. Brunner: It's less!]] An important area is not least the following: You know, there is the thermal rehabilitation offensive that can continue in this way until 2018. There is an extension to 2017 and 2018, by two years, this framework will be increased, not only the time frame, but also the funds that will then be €60 million in this rehabilitation offensive. These are covered by the 100-million-€ climate package, which is financed by the resolution of these non-binding reserves. All in all, it is a very comprehensive, pragmatic and important innovation, and I ask you in this context for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24530	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24552	Madam President. Minister! In advance, I must make a similar mistake with regard to your place of business, Mr Minister. Not for the first time we have a review period, which is not quite all right. She was just too short. It is a too complex matter to work through within a few days. It's just not professional, it's not fair. On the content of this government proposal: Unfortunately, we cannot support them so definitely. We regret that, especially on the issues of water-environmental rehabilitation measures, we are not quite clear, for example, the question of financing or the continuation of the National Water Management Plan – this is not really binding. What we especially lack is a complete schedule. So these are very many issues that have simply not been taken into account. We believe that the most important point is: If no additional money flows, this means a step back in the field of water ecological measures. The entire financing requirement also seems to be somewhat underestimated, especially when it comes to sediment deposits or resource management. It's also a little connected with flood protection. So we don't really see this funding covered. Then I would like to point out once again the counterproductive, excessive recognition of efficiency measures, which, while at an early stage, make us reach our commitments, unfortunately only on paper. The compensatory allowances shall be avoided in this way: Instead of implementing energy efficiency measures, payments can be made which flow into the UFI, i.e. into the domestic environment support budget. But since there is a very generous accounting of measures, the prices in the basement are unfortunately. This means that there is no money for environmental promotion either. We simply don't want to carry this system, so we definitely can't agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24585	Mr Feichtinger came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24606	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been noted in the discussion in the Committee that various criticisms would be expressed by the opposition groups today, in particular as regards the subject of the assessment period and its length, but also as regards individual points of content of the present bill. For my group, I note that the assessment period was a short one, since two years had come to prepare it. We welcome this proposal, however, because it will bring about improvements in the field of environmental promotion in the country. [[Abg. Brunner: It's too late!]] I cannot fully understand the criticism of individual points either. If one says that the law comes two years too late – like colleague Brunner, who reported it in a broadcast last week – then one could also resist it in the sense of the environment: Better late than never. We have also negotiated these €80 million in financial compensatory negotiations for the next complete period per year. We have not completed the financial compensatory negotiations until autumn, and the financial compensation law will not be adopted by us until tomorrow. It is an improvement compared with the past few years. [[Abg. Brunner: The Energy Efficiency Act was passed in 2014, with a clear mandate to the Minister! Now we have 2016!]] The contract is being implemented today and here. I think – the Minister has formulated this in the Committee – that it should also be possible for the Greens to agree to a law which provides more resources for the environment and energy efficiency in the field of environmental protection. So I appeal again to the Green Group, in particular to the Members of the NEOS – the colleague of the NEOS has already signaled me that he will deal with individual points in terms of content, but unfortunately reject the law –: Give me a back! I would like to conclude with a quote and request approval: “One waits for time to change, the other takes it strongly and acts.” – Dante Alighieri. I ask for broad consent and a change in my mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24656	Next, Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24678	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Mr Fichtinger, I will certainly not change my mind, but I can calm you – if you had previously taken a look at the list of speakers, you know – we have been reported as pro-redners, that is, we will vote in favour of this law today. However, I still have some essential comments and suggestions for improvement and will also explain why. The law, it has already been addressed, essentially deals with four points, namely energy efficiency or measures in accordance with the Energy Efficiency Act, the continuation of thermal rehabilitation, the settlement water management and the measures to improve the water ecological condition. Why we are going to vote is quite clear: This law creates the legal framework for the continuation of the funding that exists – so it is something necessary, and that is why we support it. We have already criticized the budget on specific points, such as the thermal rehabilitation, which is too low, but we want the funds that are available to be disbursed next year. The same applies to the means of improving the water ecological status. It was mentioned by one of my previous speakers: As it is now regulated, this means that the funds that have remained in the last period may be used more or less – this is a fraction of the 140 million euros that were left; now about 4 million euros have been left. Okay, better they are used than not, but if we want to achieve the objectives set out in the Water Framework Directive if the municipalities and the operators of hydropower plants have to implement these measures, then funds have to be available at least at the same level as we had in the last period. And that is why I put the following request to this item on the agenda: [[Quoted print version removed]] This means that the € 140 million available during the last period will now continue to be made available. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I should therefore also like to ask you from the government groups for compromise and for approval of our amendment. The next important point – it has already been mentioned – is: This government template is two years too late. In 2014, SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens passed the Energy Efficiency Act here in the house, with a clear energy saving target. And perhaps for those who were not so involved: At the end of the negotiations, compensatory payments have also been made for actions that have not been implemented. That was the idea that this should somehow go to the economic area, and, Minister, it was the greens who saved you these resources. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Thank you!]] – Very much! We have negotiated that these funds will be handled through existing support regimes, such as domestic environmental support. We have therefore asked you, with a request, to make use of these funds and to submit an appropriate legislative amendment. I don't understand why you didn't do this right now – and then with such a short review period. The second problem we have is that it is likely to become dead right now, because you have also slept in other areas of this energy efficiency. What we do Greens are still on the table. They have negotiated that you must agree with the regulation governing what measures are considered to be energy efficiency measures. Of course, I have assumed that an Environment Minister will never agree to a regulation that takes counter-productive measures for climate change and environmental protection as an energy efficiency measure. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Never!]] - Never? You didn't involve yourself and you did it! You have given your consent to air bookings, to diesels, to measures that do not actually bring anything in reality, and have therefore undermined the law which we have decided by constitutional majority here by means of a regulation. It's a no-go. We now have a law that will serve on the paper to meet the objectives of the law. In reality, however, energy consumption in Austria is increasing. I would like to hear from you how you want to achieve this energy saving objective. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We therefore agree with this law because it provides an important framework for further environmental protection measures. We need, however, much more initiative to implement the laws that we have decided here in fact in such a way that they act in reality, and to put in place, as the Constitutional Legislator wanted, other energy efficiency measures in the energy transition. Austria is completely asleep. Eko-stromgesetz keyword: All those who entered here in the early morning may have seen that some people have gathered together. I have also been given some documents with the request to distribute them. I would like to pass it on afterwards so that you can see what it means if we do not act as legislators and you as the Federal Government. As I said, We're going to take you one step today, but I'm expecting several steps from you, because they're you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24773	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24843	The next item is the speech by Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24864	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mr Fichtinger has kindly already announced our attitude. We discussed the subject in advance. We have not made the decision easy in view of the question, which often occurs in the House: Glass half full, glass half empty? In any case, the assessment was: It is not important whether more than half – full – or below – is empty. However, we will not vote in favour of the draft law today, and I would like to justify this in terms of content, because I feel that I have not understood the reasons of the other political groups, which do not agree – I say. What can generally be said about domestic environmental promotion? – On the one hand, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance has been interesting and readable in the review, because there the effectiveness of the Förde- In the field of thermal rehabilitation it has been questioned. The background was that the take-off effects are not calculated, i.e. that it is assumed that the promotion that is being used for thermal rehabilitation causes one only thermal renovation that would not have been achieved without promotion, which is, of course, quite a hollower, because there are structural measures that need to be taken. This is not taken into account when calculating the effectiveness of the funding. On the other hand, it is positive and something that should not be hidden from the fact that the Court of Auditors praises the measure that energy efficiency issues should be integrated into the UFI. However, it is essential that the criticism of the Austrian energy companies has not at all been taken into account. This is the sector that carries all of this financially on the one hand and, on the other hand, it is also intended to implement the measures massively. What were the three main criticisms? – First point: ‘More promotions can lead to distortions of competition in relation to the activities of energy companies.’ In itself, distortion of competition is very critical when one knows what the industry is in. It would have been useful to hear the energy companies, which are, by the way, not rarely in the ownership of the country. The second point was: ‘Forcing energy efficiency must continue to be ‘in the foreground’. There was no provision for indirect cross-subsidisation to be carried out on renewable energies. The third point is crucial to the fact that we are voting against it today: “Investment in energy efficiency can only be achieved if certain planning certainty is ensured, so commitment frameworks of support programmes must be established over several years.” We expect energy companies, companies that they are looking for an annual agreement – in the broadest sense; I am saying this now so salopp, because it works this way – to let in and plan their investments without knowing what the Republic is doing a year later – that republic that has so far changed its opinion in this field every two years. This is a point to be taken into account. In conclusion: The subject has not been discussed in the Ministry of the Environment, which has gone well in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy. – My speaking time is running away from me, so I get even shorter: Since 2012, €400 000 has been spent on studies in the field of Energy Master Plan until 2050 – the Energy Master Plan is not available. EUR 900 million for renewable energy was collected directly from consumers. The President of the Renewable Energy Association says: Support for energy from Wind and sun are no longer necessary. – It's about 1 billion € that we're pulling people out of the bag, and those who get them say it's no longer necessary. With regard to network infrastructure and tariff charges, we still assume that all electricity users are but not producers. The whole structure doesn't work. The Minister for the Environment – and many things have already been criticized on other points today – has gotten rid of the Minister of Energy, which must be said very clearly here; therefore we cannot agree to the matter either.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24934	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e24955	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to address the opposition in my opinion and to differentiate a little. I agree with NEOS that they have at least dealt with the content; my previous speaker has just explained this. Although I do not share his opinion and opinion everywhere, I respect that finally there is no approval from the NEOS today. The greens are similar: In terms of content, one also criticizes one or another, but one is ultimately for it – I thank you for that. But thanks also listen to the arguments of the Stronach team – or how always they are to be called now; It seems that Stronach can't be said anymore. [[Abg. Lugar: Yes!]] - Yes, okay! To the FPÖ: It would be easier if you said: We are against it on principle! and do not try to find a line of argument with any arguments, which is very difficult to understand for the other opposition parties – Mr Bernhard said that – too. It was called as an argument the relatively short assessment period – I have to admit that it was relatively short, 11 days – but if you look at what was sent out, you see, that's five pages in total. [[The speaker holds a document in height and leaves it in it.]] A medium-sized or an under-averagely well-positioned club should actually be able to review these five pages in 11 days in order to form an opinion, with the decision-making process of course extended to today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] The issue of emissions trading, Mr Rauch, has not been discussed today. This has been addressed by you, but I do not think I have seen it anywhere in the law, Minister. Criticism has arrived, but is not part of this law. Of the four points raised by Mr Höfinger and which we are dealing with today, you have focused on energy efficiency and have not actually addressed the other three points at all. There is, of course, one can say that one has a different opinion, with regard to the other three points, the You have not mentioned this, however, I perceive it so well that you see it positively; but that one may have been the determining factor for you. In short: It would be easier if They say: We are against it on principle and do not support this good initiative! We, together with the Greens, will do this and support our Environment Minister here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25002	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25023	Madam President. High house! Very soon: The current government paper on the Environmental Promotion Act has created a very important legal basis – we have heard it here in the debate and we have also discussed it very comprehensively in the Committee. This will open up really important areas of environmental promotion in the country. We are also in line with a resolution by the House of Lords from July 2014. We extend the commitment framework for water ecology, we improve the measures in the area of settlement water management, we extend the commitment framework for the thermal rehabilitation offensives – a very important approach to the Federal Government's climate protection offensive – and we include energy efficiency promotion in domestic environmental promotion. Those are really four very important cornerstones. I am very glad that we are creating the basis for the Federal Government's climate action in good time, and I am also very pleased that there is a very broad political majority in favour of this bill. I am delighted – and I expressly say this – that since the Committee the process of thinking has also been fruitful among the Greens and see this as a strong confirmation of the successful environmental policy of the Austrian Federal Government. However, I am very sorry that not all the political groups in this offensive can give their support in environmental policy. It is particularly unfortunate that NEOS did not make any really good arguments – I do not wonder about the liberals. You have to explain: You are voting against improving environmental promotion, you are voting against improving climate policy, and you are voting against a viable Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25059	The next speaker was Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25081	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with this government template, we decide that environmental promotion in the areas, Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter mentioned earlier, increased in the area of thermal renovation and in the area of settlement water management. I would particularly like to address the area of urban water management. It has been a success project since 1959, which has already invested €58 billion in order to provide the population with drinking water and also to dispose of waste water. I would also like to mention the support system: The federal government has provided €215 million annually in 2008 and 2009, it was only €100 million in 2016, and it will only be €80 million in 2017 that we will make available. In this context, I would like to refer to the study which shows a total investment requirement of over €5 billion in drinking water supply, of which €4 billion is for reinvestment and about €1 billion for new investment. In the area of wastewater disposal, about €9 billion will be needed by 2021. This is a total of €14 billion, which the municipalities, the municipalities, have to impose in order to ensure the existing high supply standards. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by mentioning a point that we will also be busy with in the next few years. It is not only the funding for the municipalities – because if the funding is not paid out, the citizens have to be charged with fees accordingly – but it is also about rural development in order to maintain the infrastructure, as there are still communities with a tendency to migrate. In addition, the EU Water Framework Directive will also deal with us in the coming years. It will stop us from adapting environmental promotions accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25118	The next speaker is Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25141	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The waste water supply is guaranteed in Austria by 1 840 municipal waste water treatment facilities and thousands of small waste water treatment plants. There is, of course, already a considerable need for renovation. It is gratifying that in the negotiations on financial compensation for the years 2017 to 2021, we have decided a commitment framework of €80 million annually. This amendment now includes a two-year extension of the period with regard to wastewater disposal. The municipalities thus have €4 million available for the settlement water industry, and there is also a need to facilitate rehabilitation by promoting the conversion of those plants that are 40 years old and older, which has so far only been applied to installations from the years before 1973. Another point, of course, is the extension of the success model of thermal building renovation, in which 10 000 applications have already been received since 2016; this should now be extended by two years. This is an essential contribution to our getting away from fossil energy sources, which we have decided in the Paris World Climate Agreement. This also includes the conversion of the generation of electricity to renewable energy sources. Mr Brunner has mentioned that many of us today have wanted to show us that biogas and wind energy are important factors for the future and that we need a proper solution – a proper solution in the eco electricity law that we need, but also now the commitment to a small eco-strom novel. [[Abg. Brunner: It's not just a confession, but...!]] On that occasion I was presented with a petition by those concerned today, which I have brought in, and I naturally ask for great support in this respect, so that we can continue on this point as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25176	The next speaker is Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25197	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! The aim of the legislative change is to use synergies potential, because energy and the environment are in a direct context, and therefore I also see the recovery of energy efficiency promotion in the field of environmental promotion law very positive. There will always be criticism points – and this has been demonstrated by the Committee's deliberations and today's discussions – but it is important to agree to this change of law – for a resource-efficient and energy-efficient work. It also offers the opportunity to promote innovative projects, many of which exist in our country, and everyone is worth being brought in front of the curtain. In my home region too, there are many such projects, I would just like to say one thing: The project is called Solartaxi in the municipality of Heidenreichstein. In the meantime, the project has been very successful for over three years. Over 10,000 citizens in the community benefit from the service of this project, and I think that could be a lighthouse project for many rural regions in Austria. That's why I'm saying: Let us continue to support these projects! Every step is valuable, any measure that leads us away from fossil energy and to renewable energy is valuable. In the end, however, it is also up to us ourselves to deal with energy resource-savingly. This starts with each individual: from heating, over the drive to the end of the habit of letting the light burn or turning off when we leave our four walls at home. It is often also the small things of life that have a great effect in the sum. Policy provides a good framework for this, part of which is today's legislative change. I think it is worth agreeing that the next generation should also find a viable environment; we should also think about it when voting. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25240	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25261	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Energy efficiency is a desirable goal, and the best and cheapest energy is the one that you really don't need. That means – and here I am referring to building renovation – everything that is not spent on space heating and heating reduces the climate-damaging emissions to the same extent, and that of course also depends on the balance of accounts of the individual people. If one asks whether this novelle will satisfy this idea, I think that the starting situation in Austria in the building area is a very good one. We have an excellent building substance. Some 60 000 homes are being renovated per year, and compared to the Federal Republic of Germany, CO2 emissions per household are one third lower. – I think that’s a very remarkable number. A problem area is more common to family houses. Now the question is: What are the possibilities for a promoted rehabilitation? – On the one hand, this is the housing promotion of the federal states, which is bound by very strict environmental standards; this also shows the number of renovations. On the other hand, there is the housing investment bank – and, of course, there are funds for the renovation – and the rehabilitation check, which has already been mentioned today and which has also been criticised in the Committee, because the funds for this year have been reduced; and it must be said that you, Mr Minister, have already said in the budget hearing that in mid-October there were still funds for the renovation. I also questioned this number, and a colleague has already mentioned today that a total of €60 million is available. This means that some 1,000 single-family homes will be able to be more renovated this year. As we have observed in the media, oil prices have increased enormously over the last few days. That is, energy costs will rise. The incentives to rehabilitation are there, funds are also available, so I think: We're on a very good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25298	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1417. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Brunner, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment to Article 1. Whoever gives his consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I call on those Members of the House who speak out to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give them their consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:04:01]] 33. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1250, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz on the expropriation of the property of Salzburger Vorstadt Nr. 15, Braunau am Inn (1389 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25375	We're going to 33. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Mag. Sobotka. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25405	Madam President. Good evening, Minister. High house! I am like the experts involved, Professor Dr. Jabloner and Professor DDr. Rathkolb, on the other hand, that Hitler's birthplace is to be torn off, and can also justify that, as the experts justify it. I believe that Hitler's birthplace has become the matter of antithesis to the famous birthplaces of other Austrians, namely, large and good Austrians, and do not believe that with a demolition the evil that has come to the world has been brought away. Instead, I believe that this place – and we are all confronted with history again and again – must be represented in a special way – from my point of view. Several proposals have already been made: to convert it into a social centre and to transform it into an architectural centre. I came to the idea that it would be really good if one involved art, because otherwise, from my point of view, it would be impossible to meet it. There is the world famous packaging artist Christo. From my point of view, for example, it would be a variant to cover the birthplace and thus set an artistic and widely visible sign, which has ever happened there. It is always applied that this could possibly become a place of pilgrimage for right-wing radicals or for Neonazis et cetera. I don't think so. In Berlin there is a similar situation: the Führerbunker. He is now always made publicly available by a historian's commission under the leadership of a well-known historian. He reports that no one right-wing radical or neo-nazi would have been there and there had not been any events at all and that there would be a positive mood in such a way that the students and tourists who come there face up to the country's own dark past in an open way. Therefore, I think it would be useful to write out an artist competition, to deal with things differently than simply going there, to send the bulldozer and to try to wipe out the evil that we can't get away from our history. That would be my suggestion. Maybe we can think about it together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25441	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince-in-Office. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25463	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Disfellowshipping is not a beautiful thing, but always the last way out, if nothing goes. After five years of intensive negotiations with the owner of the property Salzburger Vorstadt Nr. 15 – she has refused to sell the house to the Republic – should we all take the decisive step here today in order to make sense of the building in future in the context of the laws, within the framework of our rule of law, with the aim of, for example, bringing it to social-caritative or official-administrative use, with the clear task of not allowing this building as a place of pilgrimage for neo-Nazis and right-wing extremists in the truest sense of the word. We all know that this property has been empty for five years. The aid had to go out five years ago after the owner refused to install a lift and a ramp that would have been absolutely necessary for the care of disabled people. The insignificant rental income of € 56 000 per year paid by the Republic and also the city of Braunau, however, has taken this owner very much. Not only the long emptiness and decay of the house should give all of us thought and invite us to act. It is known to all of us that every year many people travel to Braunau because of this house. Col. Buchmayr knows from personal experience, as Braunauer, that this is anything but pleasant for the population. We don't need pilgrimages, we need memorials, like the former Mauthausen concentration camp. All of us should be concerned with promoting places of commemoration to learn from the events and consequences of National Socialism. These include data transfer and prevention work. This, for example, provides the concentration camp memorial Mauthausen comprehensively and in high quality. The government template by Minister of the Interior Mag. Sobotka and what we are discussing today therefore rightly sees an expropriation of the property of salt Citizen Vorstadt Nr. 15 vor. This House of the Republic of Austria will be owned by a corresponding amount of compensation. The latter explicitly undertakes to prohibit the care, promotion and dissemination of national socialist ideas and not to sell the property. Mr Franz, I think the mistake has been in your speech. It is not about tearing down the house, and there will be no bulldozer that will prevent appropriate solutions for the future. Rather, the municipality of Braunau and also the country of Upper Austria are required to think about the future use and design of the house. I am convinced that, together with the Committee of Experts, it will succeed in finding future solutions. However, our mission here and today is to comply with the legal requirement to permanently prohibit any national socialist re-activating. This is what each of us has promised at the time he is fishing in Parliament. I would like to quote those words that should remind us when we come into this house, in whose minds we should act here: “All men are born free and equal to dignity and rights. They are gifted with reason and conscience and should meet each other in the spirit of fraternity.” – Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Therefore, once again: We do not need a place of pilgrimage to glorify violence, murder, exclusion and hatred. Today, let us all put together a sign against it and give the people in Braunau a new opportunity to use this property in the future in the sense of co-humanity!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25518	The next item is the speech by Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25539	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I am Braunauer, the subject under negotiation has been constantly being put on tapet for decades. The whole subject matter always produces a great deal of displeasure, because the Braunauer women and Braunauer are well aware of the responsibility they have with the house. Adolf Hitler was born there, of course one cannot deny that, but Braunau himself had little to do with National Socialism in the 1930s. For example, in the 1930s, when the last elections took place, the NSDAP reached 7 percent, when between 30 and 40 percent of NSDAP were elected in other cities. Nevertheless, there is this responsibility, but three key points have a negative impact on Braunau. On the one hand, Braunau is the birthplace of Adolf Hitler and on the other the responsibility to deal with the house properly. The second point derives from the name: Braunau actually comes from browner Au, but the “brown” in the city name is always associated with the brown shirts and with the National Socialism. The third point is current reporting. There are incidents every few months or several times a year. I can still remember – that's not as long ago – than on 20th. April, the birthday of Adolf Hitlers, Braunau was regularly hermetically sealed because many people wanted to drive to Braunau to hold a memorial rally there. Buses have even been stopped, and many people have been prevented from going to Braunau. This has been improved by the police measures, but people in Braunau ask again and again in Braunau for the birthplace of Hitler and are more or less stolen with the Hitler greeting in front of the house. It's not a rarity. Since the house has been empty since 2011, we have formed a working group in Braunau, which has dealt intensively with this topic. We invited a historian, Dr. Uhl, who was also in the expert commission. At the end of the day, it has already been established that you have to deal very sensitively with a re-use of this house. We worked out a concept with the Volkshilfe and Volkshochschule back then, and the owner refused. I know about the discussions from the Ministry of the Interior, where I was part of it, or about other conversations with the owner. She has been highly sensitive for many years – I really have to say that – and has been very considerate of re-use and discussed. Finally, there was no commitment, no approach. A expropriation is really the last way to prevent expropriation within the meaning of the 1955 State Treaty, which was previously cited, namely the legal requirement to which the Republic of Austria is bound, from any national socialist re-acting and also the avowed commemoration in such places, and to make sure that it never takes place again. That is being dealt with in an excellent way, I must say, by the Ministry of the Interior in a very, very sensitive way. As has been said, the current proposal for a law is ultimately the last way out. Everyone had actually hoped that the owner might be still luring in the summer, even that didn't happen. Now stop is decided here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25582	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25603	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Two points: One is the question of monument protection, the question of demolition, the question of design. I believe that this is largely from the table, because the experts recommend not to tear this House down, but, as they say, to neutralize it. It should not be – logically, because it would be illegal – a memorial for the one born there, but no memorial against it. It is easy to neutralize is the best for this object. Although the law itself – which may be a certain mistake in beauty – is in it, if one wants to design it, it is not meant to oppose the decisions of other authorities, such as objections from monumentists. I believe that if you deal with the representatives of the city of Braunau in a sensitive manner – that is the most important thing, and it has already been mentioned – this design will fit in with the agreement to fulfil this purpose. However, the main point of this agenda is expropriation. Col. Franz, the artistic design and everything today is a thematic failure, because it is about expropriation. Of course, expropriation is the last step the public hand can reserve and take out on a legal basis in order to take away his private property. Perhaps before on another question: A bit thick is already applied in the legislative proposal and in the explanations. So if there were to do hordes of neo-Nazis with Hitler greeting a couple of times a week, as Mr Buchmayr said, then, if such a thing were true, I think the interior resort would be called upon to put there a police officer who will ensure that everyone who does the whole thing is immediately discharged and, accordingly, criminally prosecuted. - If that were the case. Once from Hungary and from a rock band from Germany on the Internet, there have been calls to go there to meet there. It's supposed to be all of that. It is also applied thickly and said that birth houses of dictators are always something special for this community, as there is the irrational myth of the birth process, visits take place inconspicuously, and it is made a quiet memorial place. I've already condemned the silent memory. How do you know when someone is still remembering? I have not yet seen anyone who is silent in the Heroes Square and who has been made to stand firm somewhere. This irrational myth of the birth process is applied, please nice, thick. This is not a privilege of any neonazis, fascistic or other persons. Why is there a birthplace of Mozart? – Mr Federal Minister, you as a musician may also be visiting Bach’s birthplace, even the cave where Zeus was born on Crete. There are not only prospective neonazis and fascists who want to look at the myth of birth there. It's a little thick applied. The Republic has the obligation that there be no permanent possibility of such a place of cultivation. In contrast, this bunker in Berlin does not belong to a private person who might sell it to someone else. In the media, a Russian oligarch spoke and said he would like to buy the house. We don't know what he wanted to do with it. At any rate, it could have been something that the Republic of Austria would not necessarily have been supportive or feasible. That's a certain difference. Now for expropriation itself: We had the information, which was not very valid, that the ministry had not been properly negotiated with this woman. I asked the Minister of State in the Committee to see the files of this negotiation. This was made possible for us. It has been a minutely documented negotiation process for decades. The woman was basically even willing to sell, but said it must be an exorbitant price. She's got offers, she hasn't signed up. It was her lawyer's turn on. It is simply not true that on the part of the interior, there was not a proper effort to find a common solution. Now we are facing this step of expropriation, which is not beautiful, but obviously it is not otherwise possible to set up appropriate actions for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25654	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25676	Madam President. Minister! High house! What's this about? – It’s about expropriation, and what it looks like, we’re all for it now, except for some non-attached Members. I think it is essential that, after many years, this House be transferred to the property of the Republic – although we are not at all comfortable because expropriation is already a process that should only be carried out with a lot of thought. To compare the birthplace as such with the cave in which Zeus was supposedly born, or with the birthplace of Mozart, and to speak of myth – so, Mr. Rosenkranz, that is so absurd, but let's leave it. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Is also a birthplace, isn't it?]] Your former presidential candidate has been quite open to the demolition of the building, I have taken note of this with amazement. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I still chose him...!]] I mean, it's about taking the myth of this house, we've heard it many times today. Mr Sobotka, your approach in recent months has not been very professional, at least not very communicative. You just knocked out our call offer. You didn't want to, I take note of this as an opposition politician. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] However, what is told me from Braunau, where I spoke to ÖVP City Councils, who tell me that no contact was made, in secret with the mayor, it was carried out, which in turn did not inform his own people – so one cannot address this problem. There is already a need for public communication. One thing should be clear to us: In any case, whatever our views are about to happen to this House, whatever the opinions we have on this matter – finally Braunau has to deal with this problem, and finally we have to communicate offensively with those responsible in Braunau and accept what is decided there. The house is a myth, and I warn you to believe that a simple renaming or an attempt to deposit anything else and bring another function into this house will be carried on in any form. I warn you to make a memorial there or any historical reference. There are experiences, for example, we know what is happening at Obersalzberg, where wash basket proof NS-Devotionals must be carried away. The Eternals and those who can and want to identify with it today place flowers, badges and other things there. We know the situation of the University of Vienna with the Siegfriedskopf. There, too, it has not succeeded in taking the myth of this place, although there have been attempts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] – Yes, I know you weren’t exactly there right now on the side I was on. Mr. Minister, you have convened a Committee of Historians – interestingly, the city of Braunau, in turn, makes its own event, its own concept with a historian. There was no communication, that would have been your job, and it's very bad you didn't. If I may briefly quote the explanations to the law. It is quite clear that “there is also a complete removal of the birthplace” in the room. I would at least discuss this with those responsible in Braunau. We must be clear that the big goal is to take this place its Nimbus. The big goal must be to stop Nazi tourism there. It is not only Mr Buchmayer who has found this, Mr Rosenkranz, but all I know from Braunau who complained about what happened there especially in the time around the 20th century. July is playing. He didn't say that this is the case all the time – 20. April, yes, you know yourself well in this context – but he said what happened there on 20 April. ==References== [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: April was that!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: As a historian!]] [[Abg. New builder: This is general school knowledge!]] ==References== July has a different connotation, but let's leave it. – I am convinced that you are also open to discussion in this regard. So we want to take this away, Mr Minister, and I would like you to have a plan, namely: What do you do if you don't?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25784	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25812	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the objectives that Mr Walser has now outlined, of course, we are going to conform. We voted in committee on expropriation. In fact, we already have a more differentiated picture – but it is of course difficult, with only one member of the committee, to express this difference in voting behaviour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] We actually wanted to postpone this matter because we do not think it is sufficiently clear what happens after expropriation. The plans for this are diffuse, there are recommendations from the historians' and historians' commission, how to deal with it, but not a binding plan for it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] We just have a differentiated view of this problem, expropriation can only be the Ultima Ratio. They all know one of the motto of the French Revolution: Freedom, equality, private property – this is something that we also hold high. [[Further call of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] On the other hand, this is, of course, a very singular case, in which all mechanisms that would otherwise resort to expropriation cannot be grasped, otherwise this matter would not be in the House, but it would simply be decided on in accordance with the law. Why should we be expropriated at all? So that a certain myth can be removed from the place? – Of course, this will only be difficult, because the place itself will not disappear due to expropriation. Braunau will not disappear from the map either. [[Abg. Schönegger: Do all see this at NEOS like that?]] – That Braunau doesn't disappear from the map, everyone at the NEOS will see it that way. What does this brown tourism look like? – There is anecdotic knowledge, there are observations, but no numbers. It is not that we doubt that there is this Nazi tourism. I also asked Mr Sobotka, but he could not mention figures. The Explanatory Notes to the Bill also read: ‘Visits at the cult site are usually inconspicuous.’ That means that it may often be observed, but not systematically, and it is not counted at all. As I said, we do not question this, but a little more substance would already be appropriate to the facts – a little more substance instead of abdominal feeling and anecdotes. We have here the Commission's final report on the historical correct handling of Adolf Hitler's birthplace, which is a six-page document. When we extract the filling pages such as the table of contents and cover sheet, we have two and a half pages – there is not much in it. It doesn't have to be a lot inside, I'm glad if I don't have to read so much, but that's a very short summary with very little substrate. In contrast to the substrate, there are wordings in it such as: “The symbolism and aura of its birth place serves to identify” – these are hard-to-measurable things. “Aura” – I mean, no one will have gone there with a Kirlian camera. But I trust, of course, that the historians' and historians' commission can also perceive something like “Aura”. Obviously there are other people who also perceive this, otherwise we would not have Nazi tourism there. Obviously, there are people who feel something special. So if there is less Nazi tourism to Braunau, then a expropriation is probably worthy and right. [[Calls and counter-calls between MEPs Schönegger and Bernhard.]] I mentioned earlier that we have a differentiated view of these things, and you will also be able to observe it in our voting behaviour. A solution without expropriation – that I suppose – would probably be preferable to the most here – to us too! We would have liked to have defined a re-use concept that we would have preferred to postpone the decision until this point in order to decide if we were expropriating. Now there is a expropriation. We don't know where she's going. We also do not know whether the targets set for demystification of this place can be achieved at all. Finally, it is a question of faith whether this can be achieved. We can quite democratically decide whether to believe in it or not whether these objectives will be achieved or not. And we'll just do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25874	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1250 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this draft law to give a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[22:31:03]] 34. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1345, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Federal Foundation and Fund Act 2015, the Announcement Act 1991, the Name Change Act, the Person Status Act 2013, the Explosive Act 2010 and the Arms Act 1996 (Deregulation and Adjustment Act 2016 – Innens) (1388 d.B.) 35. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1366, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Tyrol on civil and civil protection helicopter services in the state of Tyrol (1390 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25933	We now come to points 34 and 35 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e25962	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! My speech refers to Agenda item 34, the 2016 Deregulation and Adjustment Act. Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at this novel, I get the impression that the government parties would try here – according to the motto: I give you something, you give me something – to make other parties socially problematic changes tasty or subjugating. In concrete terms, for example, I would like to say that I agree to set up registered partnerships before the Offices as a counter-service to the weapons passport for police officers. This would in fact give the same right as the classical marriage through the back door of the alleged reduction in the administrative burden of the same sex partnership. This is another taboo break and a blow against the classical family and marriage. I only wonder that it seems that the ÖVP has no difficulty in agreeing to such legislative changes at all. But now to amend the arms law. This includes the prohibition of the acquisition, possession and management of firearms and ammunition in the case of asylum seekers, the prohibition of the acquisition, possession and management of firearms of third-country nationals unlawfully resident in the federal territory and the refusal of access to firearms and ammunition for illegally detained persons. Ladies and gentlemen, these bans are, of course, justified, and it is also obvious that people who seek asylum from us in the country are forbidding possession and leadership of firearms. For me, only the question is why such a ban on arms has not existed long ago. It is also right to give strangers who migrate to Austria and plan to stay with us in the longer term, so to speak, an observation period and to allow them to acquire, own and run firearms and ammunition only after five years of well-being. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] It is equally reasonable to allow workers who kill wild people to use sound absorbers to avoid hearing damage because of their profession. With all these regulations, ladies and gentlemen – and I have not in vain said “reasonable”; I could also say “righteous” – one has always tried to justify why they are appropriate. On a crucial point, however, there is no factual justification, namely the fact that public security bodies, in short, our police officers, are given the opportunity to acquire a weapon passport without a so-called need, but the caliber is limited to 9 millimeters or below. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I will tell you why this restriction is not justified: Police officers are already obliged, in accordance with the 1993 directive, if it is proportionate and in accordance with the circumstances of the case, to put themselves in service if the life and health of people or the protection of foreign property is largely at risk. The argument that the limitation of the weapon passport to 9 millimeters is appropriate because the police are particularly trained in dealing with this caliber goes empty. The opposite is true in this case, because I claim that police and judicial officers in many areas are better trained than other civilian passport holders who have weapons much bigger calibers. We also know, however, that the problem of arms passport for police officers is only due to the increasingly mistrustful or reluctance of police officers in recent years. This is the case in the case of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom. On the other hand, we should be grateful to the police for being at all willing to carry weapons outside the service and, in the event of the need to use these weapons if there is a risk of life or health. I am thinking of how it would have been possible for police officers to be armed at the crime scene in recent years. How many lives could have been protected! Mr. Minister, don't do half a thing! Let this restriction fall on the caliber – it's still time for it – and let's also give the judicial guards the opportunity to acquire a weapon passport in the described form! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26035	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gerstl on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26057	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Before I come to the issue of arms law and to the remarks of my predecessor, which I will correct, I would like to say to his introduction, to his first sentence: Acts shall apply regardless of where they are concluded. The content of this act does not change. In this sense, your opinions, what you said for the first time, are in no way right. It does not matter where a legislative act has been concluded. Now I am allowed to refer to the 2016 deregulation and adaptation law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Today, we decide to reduce red tape, which is a red tape relief for foundations, where reporting obligations are out of date, a red tape for reporting authorities, which can easily prove and verify the identity of foreigners by accessing the Central Register of Foreigners. We reduce bureaucracy by allowing you to register with a citizen card in the future and no longer have to go personally to the reporting authority. We also reduce bureaucracy for patchwork families if they take accommodation in accommodation establishments by only one of the families there comply with his reporting obligation and the other persons only have to register with name and date of birth. With this novel, however, we are creating something very important by stressing the dignity of people, especially for a very specific group of persons: Babies who are born with less than 500 grams of dead and who have not yet been registered in the personal status register can now be registered with this novel and thus be approved and buried by the parents, who also want to give them the grief, with names and images. I would like to thank you very much for this. Many, many families in Austria are affected and very, very grateful for this scheme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point, ladies and gentlemen, which is contained in this novel, is the strengthening of security in terms of victims. I would like to stress in particular that for victims of violence – very often women are affected – the possibility is now given to people who want to get information about them not only to give this information for two years, but to refuse the information for up to five years, for for example, women who have been beaten by their husband. who, living in an emergency accommodation, would not be good if it were to be announced where this woman lives. The extension of the ban to five years will help many people, it is also a further step in this novel for more human dignity and respect for the circumstances of the lives of victims of violence. One point on security was raised by my colleagues, namely that asylum seekers and third-country nationals who have not yet lived in Austria for five years should not have weapons in Austria, i.e. there is a ban on firearms for asylum seekers and asylum seekers. One point that my previous speaker made far closer is that in the future, police officers will be able to obtain a passport of arms without the authority taking a case-by-case examination. In contrast to what my previous speaker said, of course, every police officer can also receive a weapon with a larger caliber than 9 millimeters and, of course, every judicial guard official can also receive a weapon passport with every ammunition. The difference is only that this is examined in individual cases, just as in the past. I think that it is appropriate to welcome the fact that people can use ammunition or a weapon, as they are used to in the ministry, to employ themselves, and thus to prevent crime immediately on the ground, even if they are not directly employed, but to fulfil their duty and right as executive officials to take up the duties, which I believe is to be particularly effective. One point that has not yet been raised, which I think is particularly important, because it is particularly concerned with the new forms of crime: the so-called Dark Net. In the Dark Net, so to speak, in the non-official Internet, more and more illegal transactions are being handled, and in this Dark Net, illegal arms trafficking is also taking place. For such crimes, we increase the criminal framework so that the police can carry out hidden investigations in this area. Through all these measures, there is more security and more debureaucratisation. That takes Austria, for which a warm thanks just at this late hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26121	Mr Walser spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26142	Madam President. First of all, I would like to comment briefly on the Waffengesetz – above all, it is § 22, which is under discussion and which determines that an “organ of the public security service” as it is so beautiful to approve, if necessary, the issue of a weapon passport. Now, of course, we are giving executives an advance of confidence, which is no question at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Of course, we all assume that executive officials are dealing with weapons in general and also in their spare time. That too is out of question. What starts the problem for us is that this law shows a tendency that goes in the wrong direction. We don't need any more weapons in Austria, but fewer weapons. [[Abg. Singer: Yes, less illegal!]] Ladies and gentlemen, where the presence of many weapons leads, where it leads, when access to weapons is simple – as groups in this House repeatedly demand – the USA shows: More weapons mean less security, less security for all those who are involuntarily often faced with a danger, so we are at the heart of it. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Hagen:...no idea!]] Of course, we believe that police officers are not at risk in this respect, but I might remind you of a few cases: I remind you of a particularly tragic case when a police officer shot his pregnant girlfriend – of course in an extreme situation. The nearness of a weapon is always a problem. [[Abg. Deimek:... Kuchl Knife!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Swords!]] By the way, he also murdered his child, in this context. In such extreme situations, police officers can also find that the absence of the weapon would have been beneficial. I also remember the case when a young police officer in Germany shot herself with her weapon. We want as few weapons as possible to be available in this society, which gives more security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, it is a bit contradictory, Minister. If this facilitated access to weapons is introduced for private police officers, others are of course right to ask: Why is this not true of judicial officials, security officers, why not for federal army officials, who also deal with weapons? So either – or you should think, but of course we say quite clearly: Or! It's clear where we're going. But I would also like to mention a few positive things that are overdue, which are to be taken into account, which we very much welcome: These are the changes in the Name Change Act, in the Person Status Act, in the registered partnerships. We have been fighting for years and are very grateful that this is now finally possible and that there is a lot more equality in this area. Of course, we are quite clear about this. It is also quite clear that the ban on partnership before the office of stand is to be supported and a step in the right direction. Last – Mr Gerstl has already mentioned it –: It is also a great concern for us to facilitate the situation for the affected parents of so-called star children – that is, premature births, miscarriages with less than 500 grams. I call it that way, because only the certification that is now possible is a great help to these parents. We are very glad that after some discussions this has finally succeeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26237	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26258	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At an advanced hour in the near future: I am glad that, for different reasons, two opposition politicians, with different access, have found that at least in some passages good measures are implemented. I would just ask for one thing, namely that at least we argue the legal system exactly as it stands and as it is. If we had not had a VwGH knowledge, which would have necessarily depended on the individual case examination and on the demand survey, we would not have had the whole discussion. However, I believe that in a rule of law no one will criticize this decision. If there's a need, there's a gun pass anyway. [[Abg. That's right!]] Why you introduce this to the police and not to the other areas that have been addressed, we know, but you don't know that anyone except the police has to work. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We all did not make the regulation, but it was given. The police must be on duty. The Federal Minister has answered the Committee to a question concerning the judicial service, he does not understand at all why different decisions are taken by the district authorities, and has himself offered to address and try to clarify this with the district leaders at the next conference, in order to have the same basis of decision. But not only do we have this issue in this law that is important to me, there are some materials that have been waiting for us to implement it for some time now – let us say it that way. I am very surprised that no one is interested – because this is also an enormous contribution to safety – which sets out the Article 15a agreement on flight rescue in Tyrol. I can remember that in the past we had discussions about whether the helicopter is flying in Tyrol or not; I didn't forget that. I am glad that we can also take part in this area. I'm also glad that we're bringing this thing together with the registration law. We've got some points in there. You said it was an administrative relief. [[towards Abg. Gerstl]] - That's right. There is no question that there will be faster procedures. The theme – I call it so now – star children has a long lead time and has been discussed for a long time. I think it was high time we solved this question here. For the partnership at the Standing Office: I do not want to deal with this more widely now. – So there are numerous laws. Mr Kumpitsch: I can tell you about your comparison with a junkim, such a thing never happened. That's not true, I tell you, no matter if you believe it or not – but you can believe it. There were other discussions. I believe that with the decision-making here today, we are taking important steps in various areas of society, as has been said, starting from securing flight rescue – I am also convinced that we will continue to discuss history, so we have said – up to the star children. I can only say: If some speakers have already found some points ex empty for good, then I don't understand why you can't say yes to the whole package. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... if some are good at agreeing to the whole thing?]] I think it's always important that the steps go in the right direction. – I would like to invite you, perhaps, to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26320	The next item is the speech by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26341	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, Otto Pendl has now said something true. He's wondering why you can't agree to the whole package. – This has a very simple reason: There are herb and beet mixed together. Mr Pendl, explain to me, for example, what a name change law or a notification law has to do with the Explosives Act, the Weapons Act and the question of whether policemen get a gun pass! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] So the government doesn't make it easy for us. Many of these changes have also been welcomed by us. Star children have been addressed, a subject that is also at our heart. There are several points that are reasonable. I am also against the fact that asylum seekers get a weapon legally, and they have them illegally anyway. I don't think they need one. [[Abg. Schwentner:... Clichee!]] That's the one point. But there are some things inside that are annoying me, I must say that quite openly, among other things, the amendment of the Explosive Law 2010. I myself am the commandant of a historic shooter, that is, we fill up the ammunition ourselves. According to the new guidelines, it is no longer possible for a shooter to buy powder without official approval to deliver the salt of honor. The typical Austrian traditional associations are increasingly circumcised. If you look at what happened today in the Austrian Embassy in Berlin: One no longer dares to distribute Christmas biscuits, it is called “winterly delicacies ” so that the Muslim population does not feel offended. That's where I have to ask where we even live. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, another topic: Simplification of the registration requirement for traditional protection associations, this is an advantage in this law, which we of course also welcome. That is why, of course, there will be a mess in the vote, and my colleagues have already called for separate votes. I hope the population then understands what it really is about, because that is unfortunately not so easy in this law. We also welcome the helicopter support point in Tyrol, which I would also like to say is the next item on the agenda. Then there is another issue, namely the arms passport for executive officers. We know the problem, my colleague, Schenk, will later deal specifically with the amendment of the Waffengesetz, but one thing I have to say as a police officer: Whether I'm allowed to carry only one 9 millimeter weapon or to take a revolver calibre 45: I can shoot well with both, I'm trained with both, I think I'm reliable with both. I am of the opinion that there has been an opportunity legislation on this point, because the request of the Stronach team – which my colleague Mr. Schenk has already made x-times – was to avoid the fact that the executive has a right to a weapon passport, a little bit, so that the government can represent it as its own concern. In the morning, on the example of the protective vests, I have already mentioned how this works: Requests from the Stronach team are rejected, then you make your own version. There it is not easy, there I am asked to withdraw this request from the committee – which I will not do! – and the vests will still come. This is positive, but you can see how to make the opposition difficult and then always say that the opposition has done nothing. I have always invited you, Mr Federal Minister, and the entire Federal Government to take up good ideas of the opposition. We like to help with that, as we see. With this weapon passport, a way would be taken in the right direction, unfortunately, you have mutilated it again. Just release this for the executive, then the executive officer is no longer delivered to the authorities and the arbitrariness of the authority! I think that would be a reasonable thing. With regard to the stories she has told to our great security expert, Mr Walser, I have to say that this is a little tasteless to take such a case. Mr Walser, there can be that everywhere. Executive officials who provide for order, security, even for your safety – your son is a police officer, you should actually write it behind your ears – should support them and give them the opportunity to intervene safely and protect their lives and the lives of others. – You should be there for it and not against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26395	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26416	Madam President. “And it is true that at the Standesamt in the beautiful season, very much likes to marry – this automatically leads to contact between heterosexual and homosexual couples. Whether this is so good is put forward.” The quote is from 2008; it is from the then President of the National Council Michael Spindelegger. I am really pleased today that the ÖVP has changed its opinion in these 8 years and we can change it here today. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] I am really pleased that in the future registered partnerships can also be concluded at the Standing Office that they may also have a common family name in the future and not just a common surname. We know what a long history the equality of homosexual societies has: beginning with the abolition of the homosexual paragraph, about the discussion of whether homosexuals can partner – then we came sometime. At the time, however, the ÖVP had a few points and wanted to bring something in, which is still being discriminated against. At the beginning, the double name of homosexual partnerships was not allowed to be binding, so that you can see that someone is homosexual and partner. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court then lifted this and said that this is not the case. There were other conscious discriminations, such as the question of whether homosexual children may adopt them. Even then, there have been high courts that have fortunately said that this ban on adoption is not all right. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We were the first to have the ban on step-child adoption lifted by the European Court of Human Rights, and then the Constitutional Court has said that it is of course not order that there is a general prohibition of adoption for homosexuals. This time we do it without the highest of dishes, which I am very pleased with. It is rather rare in Austria on such issues that we abolish further discrimination. But what is still not going on is that we allow homosexuals who want to marry to enter civil marriage. This would have made the whole thing much easier. You don't always have to take small steps, always wait a little until a high court picks up something again and you can make very small changes again, but we would have quite simply to create a comprehensive equality that can open marriage to everyone. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I know that many here in the hall are not so far away, that's quite obvious. I am, however, only once a good courage and hope that this will change and that in a few years – the last time it took almost eight years for one to see that it is all right for homosexuals to be able to get involved in the office – not only 73 percent of Austrians believe that one should open the marriage to everyone, but that 73 percent in this House are of this opinion, and I must honestly say that 51 percent would be enough for me. So we would finally manage that there is marriage for all that gays and lesbians also have the opportunity to marry and enter a civil marriage. I know that this day isn't today, I'm sorry, but I hope he'll come very soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26483	Next word: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26504	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Now my previous speaker Niki Scherak has made the ÖVP a little proud and reminded of its change of mind. It's always good to do that and show how this happens. [[Abg. Scherak: You can get smarter!]] Nevertheless, we want to relieve Mr. Federal Minister a little and save him – what Otto Pendl has already announced – a tour of the district authorities. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm also responsible for this now. The Federal Minister has said that he cannot imagine this, and he will once again announce that all the district authorities have the right to decide at the same time. Unfortunately, that is not the case in practice – that is why this request. I have to say, of course, that security in Austria is primarily important to me in the training of the weapon, and training is a very good thing for military police and for judicial officers and police officers, otherwise we do not need a gun passport. Once we discuss the fact that such well-trained persons are no longer available, then we can't give the weapon passport to anyone. In principle, this must be held. The primary issue for me is training, Mr. Federal Minister, and secondary... [[Federal Minister Sobotka speaks to an employee.]] – Yes, Minister of State, I don't know now... [[Federal Minister Sobotka: I get the information yes! I listen with an ear!]] – That’s very good, it doesn’t make the impression, but if you say you hear very well on an ear, I’m supposed to be right now. It's all right, Minister of State. What's important now is: I say to you, primarily, that training is important, and it is the same with all executives. Secondary is then – and this is a law that is not ground in stone, you can always change it – who is allowed to carry a weapon outside the service. One thing you have to say: The police officer doesn't make it out of jux and brilliance, he usually does it when danger is in delay when a human life is in danger. This can also be entrusted to a military police officer and a judicial guard official – therefore our request. Think about this and agree to this request! That saves the Minister of the Interior a lot of work. He doesn't need to rethink anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, the so-called deregulation and adaptation law – with all love for packaging – is: There was a big package, as Mr Pendl said. That's really a big package, you can't lift it at all. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That can't even vote the Christian child!]] What you've mixed in is actually almost unbearable. For me, it actually looks like a certain distrust exists between the two government groups, and that's why everything that doesn't actually fit together is wrapped in a law. That doesn't fit together for us, and we're sorry. We will do just as we do in committee, of course we will have to agree to the arms law – for the time being only for police, but we still want to extend it to all executives – but we will reject the overall package, because it is so difficult and unbearable for us. That's what we're gonna do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We shall have this separated in the second reading. This is what the Rules of Procedure provide, which is possible; unfortunately, at the third reading, Parliamentary events are no longer provided for. So we are very sorry for the many executives, for the many police, that we unfortunately have to reject this heavy package, which is unbearable for us, at the third reading. However, we are still in favour of this, as you can see from our motion for a resolution. We also want to save work for the Federal Minister and say: He doesn't need to talk at all. He's just supposed to do this. One can then also change the law so that other people who are very well trained in the weapon may in future put themselves in service in case of danger in default if a human life is in danger. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26609	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lausch is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[Call the FPÖ: I think the Minister agrees!]] [[Abg. Lausch: He is already pleased that he no longer has to tour the district authorities!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26678	Next word: Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26700	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Many small people in many small places who do many small things can change the face of the world. . I think this African proverb says a lot about the separate materials – such as reporting law, human rights law, arms law – which regulates this deregulation and adaptation law 2016. It is simply a gradual change of the face of Austria. We modernize Austria. I would like to say a few innovations: The first and really big objective of this government template is to reduce red tape, which we achieve through several measures. The registration and re-declaration with the citizen card is a product of time, a command of the hour and, so to speak, a good result of modernisation. The hotel industry and tourism are being debureaucratised. Measures will be taken to help them manage their business more easily, for example by filling out the newsletters for collection lists, group travel, or if only one person is required to report to families. Our hoteliers, our owners in pensions, our apartment tenants are grateful for the fact that this follow-up to the registration forms is now an overarching end. Let me briefly say something about the improved service at the register: We take into account the long expressed desire of fathers and mothers, who are now able to record their star children. I think we are very sensitive and especially in a very difficult situation to better master these in the future. Let me focus on data quality in the central Short-term reporting register: Reporting authorities shall have access to the original data of the Central Tourist Register. I think it is very important, especially in today's time, to facilitate the registration of foreigners and to eliminate the sources of error accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, for me the extended protection of victims is particularly important. Every victim – unfortunately women – who has been able to hold the two-year lock-up for reporting in emergency apartments can now do so for five years. I have already said in 2015 how important this regulation is when we implemented it. Practice has confirmed the sense of meaning, and it has shown above all that the period simply needs to be extended. That's what we do with this. Let me say so much about the adjustments to the partnerships at the office and the leadership of the family name: Our society continues to develop. I think it is essential to continue to distinguish between the legal instruments, but the place where the partnership can be concluded should ultimately be regulated more administratively. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a successful government template with various well-founded, sensible measures that help our citizens to make it easier to operate in the country and its activities, and above all we create a piece of red tape – a command of the hour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26751	Next word: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26772	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I refer to the change in the arms law, which makes it easier for police to obtain a passport of arms. Some previous speakers have already made their remarks, but it should be noted that this change, which is being made here and is to be decided today, is a semi-trail and toothless version. [[Abg. Plessl: You have not read the template!]] What do we need a caliber restriction for? This is again a bad situation for the police against those who apply for a normal weapon passport. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Minister, you said in committee: If someone wants another weapon, then simply ask for a full gun pass. Trust You're not the cop now? Why just a half-gear, toothless version and not a full match of weapons, as you yourself say? This is not understandable, it is not understandable, and we will reject it here too. It is also not to be seen and not to understand why – it has already been mentioned – judicial officers and federal army members are not allowed to receive a gun passport and not to carry the weapon out out of service. You already mentioned it, cops are particularly trained, but when someone asks for a gun passport, it doesn't mean he gets one. The EIA's colleague said earlier that it is possible to request that the authorities put it off. – There is no more arms passport on display. I have innumerable letters with the rejections of the authorities that no more arms passport will be issued, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's a fact, and you have to address it very clearly here. I also repeat here my demand that self-defense be a need and that a legal claim be based on a weapon passport. The citizens who are free to pay taxes, but the right to self-defense, to emergency defence, are denied them. This, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, is not to be seen. I would like to draw attention to my 2014 petition and also to the November 2014 survey, in which we asked about the Austrian security needs. Even then – in front of the refugee slave – 67 percent of the respondents stated that they did not see their sense of security sufficiently satisfied by politics. From: Mr Minister, you said in the Committee that there is no data on the number of asylum seekers who have weapons. Yeah, that's no wonder. If Zig thousands are illegally swept by Austria, if not controlled, if nowhere is seen, no one is controlled in any way, then that is no wonder. These people come to the country without control, are not checked – and each Austrian is tested 70 times. There is a failure here that you cannot hide and that you have to express quite openly here too. We originally wanted to do this today, but because of the late hour it is no longer planned, that is why in the near future – we have done this for the next year, we are already working on it – a comprehensive package, a comprehensive application for the Arms Act, because it requires many changes and because it is always only done in part – once a small confession, then half and often not at all. There's a lot in the arrogance here, that needs to be changed. I hope that we will not only be able to experience rejection, but rather expect your approval, or at least that you will take a good look at the proposals and not reject them from the outset, as is unfortunately the case with many of the opposition's requests in committee. So we will have a comprehensive request, because the arms law needs to be reformed, debureaucratised and made more citizen-friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26816	Next word: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26837	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to highlight three aspects of the conflict of law. First of all, the Reporting Act, which facilitates the management of the guest newspapers for tourism companies. Secondly, Large – above all a long-standing demand from victim protection organisations – is, of course, the relief, especially for women who are housed either in emergency homes or in women's homes, that the lockout be extended from two to five years. Thirdly, I also have two points in the Person Stands Act, which I would like to mention: On the one hand, there is finally the possibility that same-sex couples will marry at the office. The opening of the office is another step towards equal treatment, and I am also of the opinion of Mr Scherak: This is another step towards equality and marriage of couples of equal sex. We will, of course, continue to work on it. We know it's a drill of hard boards, but I hope we'll get through with it sometime. Instead of a common surname, a common family name is now possible, which no longer stigmatizes. I would also like to say something to the star children. What are star children? – These are children weighing less than 500 grams and dying before or during birth. In the past it was so for parents that they had not only the severe fate but that the children were treated according to law as if they had never been existent. This has presented a very difficult situation for parents. Mr Lipitsch introduced a petition in May 2014 – more than two years ago – and the subject has thus come into play. On the basis of his petition, we have discussed ourselves – and that is something where I think that Parliamentaryism works again at once – on an objective level, in expert discussions, with the ministries and at the same time with affected parents. In October 2014, we managed to put forward a unanimous motion for a resolution across all political groups. That was important to us, and it really went a little further. I would also like to thank Mrs Gabriele Horak-Böck, who has always been available for discussions and who has given us a lot of input for this discussion. It has not only been possible to include the star children in the register of status, but also to delete side appearances such as the repayment of child care money that existed before. Because of such shocking news, it is said that if it is reported within four weeks, it will be suspended. There is also a four-week notice protection for mothers who have suffered such a sad fate. The law is in place today. Although we cannot relieve the suffering of the parents of the star children, we can help them in their mourning work. The corresponding arrangements will apply from January next year. After two and a half years, under a new minister, we have succeeded in deciding on this law here. Although it was not exactly what we had in mind and what we asked for, it is a compromise. We will try to see if this compromise works the way we imagine it and how we have worked it out. It has been a great wish of the parents of star children, and I hope that we have made a small contribution with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26878	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26899	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda item 34 is Very diverse, he also deals with the arms law for police, police and other public security organs. It will be easier for them to acquire a weapon passport in the future. You do not have to prove any more specific danger in order to be able to carry a weapon privately in the future. However, this is limited to weapons with a caliber up to 9 mm, and I can't understand that. Furthermore, the Waffengesetz provides for exceptions in terms of sound absorbers for Förster, profession hunters and the like. I can get to point 35: Agreement with the country of Tyrol on helicopter services. The agreement will be concluded for the first time for a period of 15 years, with a termination being possible at the earliest after eight years. The helicopter is to be stationed at the already existing air position of the Ministry of the Interior in Tyrol. This will not involve any substantial additional costs, including pilots. The agreement is justified by the fact that the country of Tyrol is repeatedly confronted with serious natural disasters such as avalanches, floods and forest fires in high alpine regions, where immediate use of a helicopter is absolutely necessary. All of this is correct and necessary and is out of question. The costs for the operation shall be borne provisionally by the Federal Government. In return, the country of Tyrol contributes an amount of €4 million to the purchase price. My question to you, Mr Minister: How much does this helicopter cost? I am aware that there are 16 rescue helicopters in Tyrol, a police helicopter stationed in Innsbruck, a federal helicopter stationed in Schwaz, and six civilian helicopters are in use. Indispensable efforts to save life have priority, this is out of question, but there is also a question behind this procurement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26932	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26954	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I also welcome those students who are still following the debate at this late hour as a political politician. Mr Lueger, I should also like to refer to the star children in this troubled debate. I would also like to thank Mrs Horak-Böck and her initiative and the fellow fighters around her, because if they hadn't been so stubborn, we would never have moved this stoned coalition to change anything in this law. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Schwentner.]] It will also be necessary to stay on because, in our opinion and, I believe, I am allowed to involve Mrs Schwentner, even in the opinion of the Greens, we have not yet reached the goal. Now children born with less than 500 grams and not living can be registered in the register. This is important for parents, because it is very much about a question of the psyche and how it is human. It's bad if you hang something like this on a rigid 500-gram border. And it is also about the question of how such experiences are handled by parents, what that means to someone when he or she loses a child that has already been looked forward to, what the situation looks like, and there are still elements where the 500-gram limit is taken, namely, when it comes to whether it is a birth that causes a mother's protection or not. This is about occupational security. I know, there comes: Then the woman should stop going to the hospital. I consider this aid structure to be devaluable; that does not justify the situation. I think we need to find solutions that give the young parents who lost the child so early the opportunity to recover from this fate. And we consider the 500-gram limit to be highly questionable from a social and labour perspective. We will stay here in conversation, both with the initiators and with colleagues from the Greens, and we hope that we can take some steps forward in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e26996	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27017	Mr President. Minister! Dear colleagues! At the beginning of the debate, my colleague Kumpitsch took the floor, and I did not hide the laughter in the ranks of the ÖVP when he said it was so that obviously one is exchanged with the other and one is packed with the other in a mogel pack, so that everything can be decided together, and that the true or the essential contents can only be very difficult to handle, because they are very different materials. You will still be laughing – I say this when I look at Mrs. Karl – because it is actually a collection of laws, and on the one hand, we decide on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the basis of reasonable things like arming our police, on the other hand, I wonder that once again the gay marriage is made a matter of internal security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] When I heard the comments made by Mr Scherak, I had such a small vision: Two persons in the white wedding dress, veiled, step in front of the altar to marry, both vented the veil, and at once, colleague Scherak looks out. So it would scare me, and I wouldn't be surprised if the whole society broke out in panic. [[Abg. Schwentner: What is it now?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] So I wouldn't have made the gay marriage to a question of internal security, so far I wouldn't have gone. We know from experience – we have been spending some time together – that the SPÖ, the NEOS and, above all, the Greens are for gay marriages. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: Yes and?- Oh, my God!]] We know that. You can or can't do that. You want it, I take note of it. I do not want to, and I also ask for my opinion to be taken note of. [[Call the SPÖ:You don't have to marry anyone anyway!]] But what surprises me very much is the attitude of the ÖVP, for it is almost on the day exactly seven years ago – it was on the 10th. December 2009 – that the Homo-Ehe light was decided here, as we mentioned earlier. You have resisted with your hands and feet. [[Call the SPÖ: A madness!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an essential point for me to reject this item on the agenda. For me, love and sexuality is still private, and marriage is a privilege. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] Marriage is a privilege that the state has not created for nothing as a privilege, for man and woman. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The purpose of marriage is to put children into the world. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: An interesting thesis!]] And that's what I'm looking at, how it works between two gays or two lesbians! It is impossible for me, and that is why I stand and the Freedom Party opposes the marriage of partners of the same sex! [[Abg. Steinhauser: That you stand is a miracle!]] Let us remember what the former family party ÖVP said at that time. At that time, Mr. Donnerbauer was a judge, as far as I remember, and he said clearly and clearly – I quote from the Minutes –: We don't decide gay marriage today. Mrs Bundesminister Bandion-Ortner, also from your ranks, said: “This ceremony is not regulated by law”, and that is quite, very important. Today, seven years later, it is governed by the law: The ceremony will be possible before the office. That's ÖVP-typical! The marriage at the office is there, as we have foreseen. And you, Mrs Karl, said literally at that time: For us, marriage is “the bearing foundation of the family. ” “We do not therefore want to narrow the central importance of marriage and are opposed to a ‘Ehe light’.” – “We want to give people in equal sex partnerships the opportunity to take responsibility for each other!” – Accordingly, with the registered partnership, we create a legal institution that “gives the relationship of same-sex couples a legally secure framework, with a very clear demarcation to civil marriage”. And what, I ask you, is this today? What's the marriage in front of the office? [[Abg. Fekter: The same!]] This is the same as a civilian! Or do you say no now? And our Secretary-General Kickl already said: That which was decided at that time is like a marsupial: You just need to add a little yeast to wait a few years, and then the whole thing goes up. And in the end, you don't recognize the thing again. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Unbearable!]] That's it today. Seven years later, as a former family party, ÖVP drops the mask and is deeply convinced of the gay marriage, but I reject it out of deep conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27174	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27195	Mr President. Federal Minister! After such a previous speaker, of course, it will be very difficult for me to do that. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, I can only take this back to the advanced time, Mr. Zanger. I'd really ask you: Perhaps you can read the government paper again. There's been a couple of shortcomings in your explanations. Maybe we'll get it back. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There were only a few blurries available, but otherwise the performance was quite good for 23.30 o'clock. – Respect! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are deciding on an extensive package of legislation, as we have already heard today. What is very worrying, however, ladies and gentlemen, is the role of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Just keep going!]] In the Committee on the Interior, the FPÖ was still fire and flame for the weapons pass for police. [[Abg. Listen: Yes!]] Today I hear you can't agree. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, where is the credibility? [[Abg. Listen, you have to watch out for that!]] Where is the credibility, Mr Lausch? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Lausch, you said you agreed to the committee. You don't agree today. This must also be said to the citizens. Such a party can hardly assume government responsibility. That's crazy! [[Abg. Listen, you're not listening! At the second reading, we agree. You don't know the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is an intellectual problem!]] – You’re welcome to speak, colleague Lausch – there’s nothing going on. Ladies and gentlemen, the arms law changes will make it easier for police and other organs in the future. I believe that the restriction on the 9-millimeter caliber is a compromise. I am also puzzled by the fact that Mr Pilz has argued in such a sarcastic way in the committee. Unfortunately, he's not here today. Maybe he was a little fat on the committee, but you don't know. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: “You don’t know,” colleague Ertlschweiger, you should hear from your mouth more often!]] I do not think that the pressure on officials is increasing, ladies and gentlemen, on policemen to have to put themselves in service. I believe that the regulation was rather a matter in which the Ministry of the Interior complied with the wishes of the police to increase their self-protection. The police use 9 millimetres-calibre service weapons of the brand Glock, they are trained to do shooting exercises, they can also employ themselves. Justice officials can't do that, Mr. Lausch, and you know that. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But I'm the Rosary, the noise sits over there!]] I believe that the issue of arms law is a very sensitive issue, which belongs to serious debate, even if it is now 23.30 a.m. I believe that this law is a good law that serves to reduce red tape, ladies and gentlemen. The Starchild Regulation has already been mentioned, the theme of the Report Law has also fallen. Perhaps it should also be considered by the FPÖ to agree. It would only be for the sake of credibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27329	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27351	Mr President. Minister! Dear colleagues! With this government template, with the 2016 deregulation and adaptation law, we will carry out some revisions of the legal regulations: in the Foundation and Fund Act, in the Reporting Act, in the Person Status Act, in the Name Change Act, in the Explosives Act and in the Arms Act. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech refers to the Waffengesetz. In some cases, the arms law will be strengthened, for example, a ban on the use of firearms for asylum seekers, illegal foreigners and third-country nationals up to five years old. That is, the existing law will be intensified in this area. An increase in the criminal framework is also included in the government document. The second point that is very important, which we are discussing today, is the re-adjustment of the police. There are then, and I would like to maintain that, a legal claim to the police for a gun passport. If we look closely at this motion for a resolution, we find that some things have been mixed. A previous speaker of mine has already said, on the one hand, There is the reliability on this page – we agree. There are some professional groups who are reliable, who are also quoted, and there is also a need in the Waffengesetz. It is precisely with this need that there have been problems, and in our party's view it is a bit incomprehensible that the Ministry of the Interior and its authorities find no way that its own employees will get a passport of arms. There has been an extrajudicial decision, we know, but still it would have been possible with a regulation. Now we have a law, and with this law that we put to the vote today, the police and police are getting a legal claim. Why does only this professional group have this special privilege? – This has already been held: You have the opportunity to put yourself in service. All other professional groups do not have that. That is why this privilege is intended for the police. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have two more points, which I would like to address briefly, which I have already communicated to the Committee on the Interior. One point is: I do not want the commanders to be authorized by the Minister of the Interior to give the staff a gun, namely the military force, a private one. We should find a reasonable solution for this. This is about overtime where the officials are not insured because the officials would have to spend the weapon back to the service. If they had a gun passport, they might be insured. Perhaps you can make this possible by the Federal Minister. We do not want to change that by law, as the Minister of the Interior is required. And finally, there's another point in connection with the hunting map, which I've already explained: I do not see it as in the sense of the federal legislation that the hunting cards cannot be removed if a provisional ban on weapons is imposed by officials in the event of a threat. It would be possible – we have tried to do so with our coalition partner – to take the hunting card off as well. Why take this hunting card off? – Because with this weapons deed, with this hunting card, you immediately get a weapon of category C and D, which other citizens cannot do – they have these three days cooling down time. We don't quite understand. If a provisional ban on arms is already being issued, this hunting card should also be withdrawn and sent to the relevant national association. That would be the right attitude. We may be able to secure this somehow. [[Abg. Fekter:... checked with insurance!]] [[Call: Time! Time-out! It's enough now.]] It is not about insurance, Mrs Colleague, but about the fact that someone who has received a provisional ban on arms should not be able to acquire a weapon within three days. That's what it's all about. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27398	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27419	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! I would like to express my thanks to all those who have fought for the recognition of star children over many years. We have dealt with this issue in the Committee on Petitions. Today, it is possible for us to receive recognition from those concerned, and I believe that this is an absolutely important and human decision. I would like to stress the comments made by Mr Doppler: The country of Tyrol buys a helicopter of €4 million, we conclude an agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, we will operate this special helicopter for civil and civil protection through the Ministry of the Interior in an agreement to ensure disaster and civil protection in Tyrol and also in Vorarlberg, Mr. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler.]] I believe that, as a whole, we can say that today, with this legislative matter, particularly as regards Tyrol, we also decide on an important administrative simplification, for example for the traditional protectors. It is about giving the shooters in Tyrol administrative simplification with 15 000 members and 11 600 rifles. It will also be possible for registration to take place electronically in the future. In the future, registration will be made in an electronic register after a review. reports to the Central Weapons Register shall be made for a period of six months, with police and authority having access to and consultation at all times. Overall, there is less administration in reporting and registering traditional weapons, which are only used for honorary salutes. I would like to express my express thanks to Federal Minister Sobotka. It was not quite easy to allow this to happen together and in agreement with the Tyrolean Sagittarius, but I think it was possible to obtain a practical and practical solution, Mr Federal Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27467	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27489	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to address the star children very briefly, because this is a petition that I was allowed to bring in and which is actually being concluded very positively in the form of a legislative text after two and a half years. Of course, there are a lot of people behind a petition. I would particularly like to thank two people. One is Anita Ogris, who, as part of her activity, has brought me to the idea of bringing it in, because she is caring for women who have unfortunately experienced such a trauma of God. Secondly, I would like to thank Angela Lueger very much, for it was she who has put everything in motion until the standing officials to find a legislative text for it, which we can decide today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A thank you also to the ministry, to you, Mr Minister, even though I was sometimes a bit annoying by my requests and telephone calls in the cabinet – but it shows a positive effect, because with this law we give families, women who have had a traumatic experience, which is quite, very bad for them, the opportunity to do their mourning and then visit their child at the cemetery. A very warm thank you! I assume that we will accept this unanimously.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27528	Now Mr. Federal Minister Mag has himself. Sobotka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27549	Mr President. Dear Members of the House! It is actually the situation that we decide on a large package, and I can thank you very much for that. After much attention has been paid to the Committee's deliberations and also in the discussion, it is right to say: It has really happened a lot with these adjustments. I should like to inform you of the various questions still addressed to me: There is currently a helicopter fix in Tyrol, depending on location a second is used. We have several helicopter sites. Now a second fix is to come, so finally there is the possibility for three helicopters on site. A helicopter costs between €2.5 and € 4 million. There is currently a Europe-wide call for tender, and we will see at what price we can really create at the end of the day when several are purchased. At the price, the country of Tyrol has also been known to repay itself, because this helicopter is finally to be made available for the civil protection service and for the country of Tyrol, but at the same time it can be used fully for police tasks, i.e. border security and information work or support in a security situation. As far as the arms law and the application of the Freedom Party are concerned, I may say what I have already done in the committee, why we have come to see that the present proposal is the one that best corresponds to the legal possibility. It is not possible for a judicial officer to become a police officer. It is not possible for a military police officer to take up a police service. If you look at the training that the respective security guards have, you can also see a completely different structure, in particular what the use of weapons will be. Of course, I am equally concerned about the security needs of the judicial guards or of members of other guards. But that means – and this also concerns those police who are not satisfied with the 9-millimeter caliber – that they can also apply for an independent weapon passport. [[Abg. Lugar: The one they don't get!]] We know that our authorities need to make a very careful assessment of the risk situation. I think it also has a very good reason to check clearly what the danger is, because from the point of view of the situation, it is crucial for us that there is also the possibility of self-protection for those people who have a risk situation. Why just the 9 millimeters? There the police are trained in permanence. For us, it has been the logical conclusion that we, of course, trust this caliber in him. Of course, we also have confidence that he understands how to handle a bigger caliber. But that... [[Abg. Lugar: Where is the difference?]] Well, the difference is that he is ready to work out the 9 millimeters permanence in the shot training and thus finally have the outcome. If he does appropriate shooting training with a larger caliber, he should prove it. Then it will not be a problem to have this bigger caliber carried as well. [[Abg. Lugar: Since when do you do shooting trainings with calibre...?]] He doesn't need a psychological test either, but he only needs the proof of this. From this situation, I believe that this is the most adequate thing that you would like to give to our police officers in the end from security considerations – a long-standing wish, and with that the staff representation is also satisfied! [[Abg. Hagen: 9 millimeters...!]] I also have to say very clearly: It has been the wish of the staff representatives of all political groups to regulate it in this form. I think that with this bill we have also taken a very essential step towards security for the whole. This makes it possible for the police not only to put themselves into service and must, if there is a danger, also to have the necessary opportunity for their own protection. I believe that this is a balanced package that best meets the concerns of all the end.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27627	Next speaker: Mr Schabhüttl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27658	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! [[Abg. Arbitrator: Perhaps the Minister can say something about the state!]] High house! At the end of a long session day just before midnight and after the remarks of the Federal Minister, I would like to sum up the contents of the law very briefly. The 2016 Deregulation and Adjustment Act, which we will adopt shortly, includes important changes, innovations and also clarifications of laws. As many topics have already been addressed by the previous speakers, I would like to make a few brief comments. For example, I would like to mention the changes and reliefs in the implementation of the Notification Act; the revision of the Person Stands Act with the possibility of implementing the registered partnership at the Standsamt and establishing a common family name; the already mentioned regulation for Starred Children; and some positive changes in the field of automation and digitization in case of individual cases. We will also decide to tighten up the explosive law, which I expressly welcome. In my opinion, this law also closes a gap in the Weapons Act by giving illegal residents, asylum seekers, asylum seekers and third-country nationals the possibility of a firearm after five years, or until then there is a real ban on the use of firearms. At the same time, for the first time – and I would like to mention this again – there is a legal requirement for all police officers to get a gun passport. We have already explained it more closely today. Why is that? – Because police can and must also be employed in duty-free time. Finally, I can only ask for broad approval and wish everyone a good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27693	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27720	Federal Minister! High house! I just need to correct the Minister of the Federal Government a little bit. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you have always said – and this has been said here by many speakers – that it is about the police forces of the police that they are trained in this, and that is why it is the 9 millimeters. But now the police force is the 9-millimeter glock, and there are other 9-millimeter weapons that are not a police force. The law states: 9 millimeters or below; that is, it can be a smaller weapon, a Walther PPK or I know what. That's not a police force, so this argument you had, Minister, is just wrong! You have to say that quite clearly. Just pick it up! Leave They're wearing what they like to wear with the weapon they love to shoot with and with which they're the safest. Then we're on the safe side, then everything would be solved and we wouldn't have any more problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27762	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27783	Mr President. What I learned from the debate now is that my colleague, Mr. Zanger, obviously has panicic fear of being in front of him once in a wedding dress and a bridal liar. [[Cheerfulness with NEOS, SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I can't take that fear if he's afraid of it. What I don't understand is why you're so panicous about being married by gays and lesbians, and why that would bring something negative to the traditional family in some way. The traditional family, as you understand it, continues to exist, husband and wife may continue to marry and continue to have children, of course. But there is also the possibility that gays and lesbians will marry. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] Mr Zanger! Whether I marry a woman, whether I marry a man, whether I get married at all, whether I have children or not, whether I show up at my wedding with a wedding dress and a veil, I still decide. You do not have to decide, and I do not think that the state has to decide either. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The state is only responsible for the fact that people who want to take responsibility for each other together should also have this opportunity. You don't have to decide, but I have to decide how I do it. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] Finally, I can only repeat it once again: I am glad that 73 percent of Austrians think as well as liberal as I do. [[Abg. And we're glad not all are NEOS!]] – It's not all NEOS like a Christian, yes. Look, it's important to me that in the future there is the possibility that homosexuals may also marry. The fact that you see it differently is legitimate. I hope we achieve a majority here. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You always believe in direct democracy and say you have to do what the people want. 73 percent of Austrians are married to homosexuals. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] Do it! Do what the people want, it's quite easy.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27854	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27881	Mr President. For the friendly announcement of the house that I was yelling at the speaker's desk, thank you very much here to the left! First of all, Mr Scherak – but this is not in itself the important thing: Yes, Mr Zanger really has visions, and I can only share them. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I can only share them. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The thought that you might be venting the brawler would also give me a sleepless night. But this with the numbers, 73 percent here and there: Yes, make a referendum! Direct democracy is something we value freely. We would also appreciate that 3.9% of Austrians who are eligible to vote will vote for NEOS at the next National Council election. Here, too, this percentage is a very nice one – but in doing so we leave it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] The only point is: We see one quite blatantly: It was said by the ÖVP that it had developed further in social policy. [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] We liberals have not yet developed so socially, and that is a good thing, ladies and gentlemen, and so it should remain! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Have fun, ÖVP, on your way towards Democratia Cristiana! But one thing I wanted to tell the Minister of the Interior of the Interior what he meant about why judicial guards and parts of the Federal Government cannot put themselves into service. This is not the approach for us. For us, the approach is that these persons – justice and federal army, officers, defence department, military police – are trained on the weapon. There is not only the emergency service and the in-de-service services, but also the emergency aid for third persons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] If a law enforcement officer comes along when an attack occurs when a woman is raped, then I would rather if the judicial guard had a gun on it, which is also trained at this gun, and I don't have to trust that perhaps some citizen who has a gun pass comes along. That's better for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e27972	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the last one for today. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Do we have it? [[Abg. Matznetter: Singer is looking for another partner!]] Agenda item 34: Draft Act on Deregulation and Adjustment 2016 – Internals, in 1345 of the Supplements. There is a desire for a separate vote by the honourable Member, Mag. Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues, as well as a request for a separate vote by Dr Walter Rosenkranz. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the request for a separate vote, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 3 as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 4 CNS 1 and 2 as amended by the Government template. Who agrees? – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on Rule 4 Z 3 as amended by the Government template. Who agrees? – Again adopted by a majority. Separate vote on Rule 4 ZZ 4 to 10 as amended by the Government template. Who's calling for it? – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on Rule 4 C 11 as amended by the Government template. Who agrees? – Again the majority. Separate vote on Rule 4 CNS 12 to 45 as amended by the Government template. Those who are for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Separate vote on Rule 5 as amended by the Government template. Those who are for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on Rule 6 Z 5 § 22 para. 2 Z 2 second sentence as amended by the Government template. Those who are for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally: The vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt, will be taken in the form of the Government template. Those who are for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is, in turn, adopted by a majority. This is the third reading. Who agrees with this in third reading? – This was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lausch, colleagues on arms passport for judicial officers and elected army members. Those who are for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Vote on agenda item 35: Request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to grant approval in 1366 of the Supplements to the Agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act between the Federal Government and the State of Tyrol on helicopter services for civil and civil protection in the country of Tyrol. Those who are for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e28034	Opinion on the request by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues, to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for reporting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Sushill, on: Financing of violent conflicts in the procurement of raw materials prevents a period of up to 30 years. ==References== Who agrees? – This is the minority. This is therefore rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:57:18]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00157_d8e28070	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted in 1936/A(E) and 1937/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 15. ==References====External links== The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. I wish you a good night and a good way home! This meeting is closed.
