ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4401	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a nice morning! I'll open the 150. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 146 and 147. Meeting of 12. ==References====External links== Meeting of 13. On October 1, 2016, the Parliament's management was unable to raise any objections. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Muchich, Mag. Muttonen, El Habbassi, BA, Haubner, Dr. Nachbaur, Tamandel, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, port sticker, MA, Mag. Haider, Ing. Höbart, Walter Rauch, Brosz, MSc, Refuserstorfer, Doppler, Bernhard and Mag. Vavrik. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4435	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is the Federal Minister for Families and Youth MMag. Dr. Sophie Karmasin. I announce that this meeting will be held by ORF 2 from 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. ORF III will forward this session live in full length. I welcome Mrs Mag. State Secretary. Duzdar. [[09:07:23]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4480	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Competition order: Red-black chamber interests destroy jobs and economic impulses’ First of all, Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. I'll set you 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4507	Madam President. High house! We have a current hour today, and there is probably not much that could be more up-to-date than the election in the USA and the new President Trump. That is why I will, of course, address this issue and also show that there is a parallel to what we are discussing here today. Today we are dealing with the rules of commerce, namely the fact that the interests of the chambers have once again been placed on the interests of the Austrians and the tradesmen. This is exactly the problem we have in this government. We have the problem of seeing on the one hand that a reform is necessary – that was undisputed. There was no one in Austria who claimed that there was not much to reform the trade order. We made a start once, several years ago, to break up a lot here. I remember very well: At that time, Mr Hörl was here at the speaker's desk and therefore, because we have tried to align the press photographers with the wedding photographers, spoke of a liberalisation excretion – because of this small reform. So the years have moved into the country, and everyone has said that we need reforms in commercial law, yes, that all is no longer modern. First and foremost, it is a matter of protectingism that one can give each other the orders to try to eliminate competition, and of course it is also a matter of ensuring that the chambers also enjoy high revenue accordingly. That's why we're dealing with the trade order. That's what you wanted to break up with. What's gotten out of it, how often? - Nothing! That is because, unfortunately, we are living in a state in which all those who can judge it are also directed, and because we live in a state in which, unfortunately, the government cannot freely decide, but always has to take into account the interests of chambers, trade unions and other spheres of influence. This is the problem we have in this country. That is why nothing has been done about this reform, which has been remembered here. On the contrary! It has become even worse in many areas. And this costs jobs, which costs the economic location, and this, of course, also costs prosperity for the population. Now the question is: What does this have to do with the US election campaign? – The transfer is very easy: We have in Austria a system that provides for each other, which also forces the money to remain in power, and we have the same in the USA. This system has been there for decades. That is, those who are powerful, those who have influence, move the positions to each other. No matter who's going to be president, it's all the old man's life. This is also the reason why everyone is so excited. For the first time in history, someone comes from outside into this system. Someone comes from outside and wants to break this system at least. Then it says he's not calculable. I'm not a big friend of Donald Trump either, I've heard a lot of things I don't like. But you say he's not predictable, and that's exactly what you're afraid of, because it's probably called here in Austria, too, it's got to stay the way it is, so that those who could judge it, those who have power, also remain in power. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's how it works in Austria, so it worked in the USA. Now someone comes from outside and wants to break it up. And now the great fear comes – the fear, what happens when it comes to us, what happens when the voters suddenly wake up and say that they don't want this system that you represent, namely that you push things together, look at each other for the money to flow, and ultimately remain the only constant in this game, that the citizen can pay everything. That's how it works with us. And that's how it worked in the United States. That is why the population has elected a president who has been struck with very high-quality statements. There might even have been better candidates, I'm even convinced of that, but they chose him and yet they didn't choose Hillary Clinton, because she was the protagonist of a system that, from my point of view, served here in Austria. This is a system in which one makes policy against the will of the population, against reason, only to preserve the spheres of influence, only to speak the word to those who also have the influence and the power to emphasize things. Look at what's going on at the union! Hardly will a small reform be launched, of which all experts say: Yes, we need that!, says the union: No, and it's back on the Sankt-Nimmerlein day. [[Abg. Shopf:... examples!]] – Do you need examples?- Oh, my God! Oh, the SPÖ needs examples. Look Take a look at the ÖBB! Consider why some jobs are filled with three people, why there has been nothing going on for decades and why there is still retirement at 52 years! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is simply because the ÖBB are influential in the SPÖ. Whenever reforms are on the agenda, the SPÖ says: Let us make reforms with the farmers. And the ÖVP says: Let us make reforms at the ÖBB! And what happens? - Nothing! Nothing! And that's why... [[Abg. Keck: A concrete example!]] – He wants a concrete example. Let us look at the trade order and the reform that has failed once again! This is where the Chamber of Commerce has put in a veto because it would have lost money if it had not been able to print additional contributions to the company. That's why it's all right! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We wanted to put together the free trade. This was not possible because the Chamber of Commerce would have lost money and because it would not be possible to print additional contributions to the Chamber of Commerce. That is why we have put this reform ad acta. That's the system I'm talking about. This system has now been selected in the United States. And that's good! It is good that this system has been selected. This was possible because the voters seem to be getting mediocre. The voters can no longer be boiled down – neither by SPÖ and ÖVP, nor by your balled press power, nor by the ORF and many others who are constantly and for decades always writing for the standstill. That's what you've tried in the U.S.. They've tried to tell the people: If you choose Trump, the world will collapse! Then there is a nuclear war and other stupidities! Do you know what can happen if we're lucky? – It’s not sure yet, we need to see what Trump can do with his party friends, because he’s also embedded in this unscrupulous system. – But if we are lucky, we will experience peace in Syria. It is implemented there the only solution that makes sense, namely a solution together with Russia, because contrary to Hillary, Trump has said that one has to work with Russia. That's what Hillary never understood. Many here in Austria also do not understand that there is a need to work together. Maybe there's also a little bit of movement about NATO. NATO stands on three pillars: keeping Germany small first, keeping the USA in Europe and keeping third Russia out of Europe. These are the three pillars on which NATO stands. These three pillars also need to be reconsidered. Then you also have to ask the question: Do we need that at all? Do we need a relic from the Cold War, where two pacts stand against each other and every second a war can break out? On top of that, where Turkey is now outshining and trying to establish a dictatorship. All these questions need to be clarified. I don't know if Donald Trump is the right person to answer these questions, but I know the following: that this choice is a source of hope for all those who want to change. I want to change here in Austria, the voters in the USA want change in the USA. Whether it succeeds or not, we'll see. For Austria, I certainly see black as long as this government is in office, because with this failed chamber reform, we have once again got the proof that this does not work in Austria. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is not here. The next failure we will experience in the countries and in the reform of the tasks – it does not come – and in all other areas, whether health, pensions and all other problems, immigration are. Nothing goes on. In fact, the system is within itself, protects each other, pushes each other to the money and ensures that nothing goes on in Austria. That is why this choice is a source of hope. I hope that we maintain good cooperation, I hope that at last something moves in the sense of the people in this country and in the sense of the world community, and not in the sense of those who have the power to have the money and who use us all as a willing ball of play for their own interests. This has to stop, both in the USA and in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4579	Mrs Mag, Secretary of State, has been notified of an introductory opinion on the matter. Duzdar. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4601	A wonderful morning! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I can represent the Federal Chancellor today, I will not talk about the outcome of the U.S. elections, but I will talk to you about the trade order. As you can see from the current hour, which comes from the Stronach team, your group is not satisfied with the steps taken. But let us say that we are not completely satisfied either. [[Abg. Lugar: We have something of that if you are not satisfied!]] It is a small step forward, but actually an important step, so we have now gone on. [[Abg. Kickl: One step forward, two back!]] Then: Much will be easier and cheaper. We have abolished the sub-sector. This means that in the future only two categories remain: the regulated but also the free trade. With the extension of secondary rights, we create more freedom for companies, as the goal must be to promote creativity, to promote innovation for companies in Austria, but at the same time to maintain quality – and that for 817,000 professionals in Austria. As you know, the trade regulation for the Austrian economic location fulfils essential and essential functions, as it standardises the handling of essential interests and functions in entrepreneurship: on the one hand, access to industrial activity, quality standards and industrial activity rules. The trade system has a competitive function. It also takes into account the legitimate interests of the local residents. And it is an interface in conjunction with many other legislative instruments and their protection purposes – for example, environmental protection, workers' protection, food law, the vocational training law or the membership of the sections on collective contracts. These diverse interests are not always easy to bring into one's mind, because the interests sometimes appear very contradictory. However, the guidelines have quite positive effects and aspects of competition not only take place over the price, but also on quality, and this is a major innovation drive for Austrian traders, which also helps them to achieve international success. [[Abg. Kickl: The coroner's asleep!]] At the beginning of this path, the one-person companies often stand with an innovative idea. For example, the professional law of the trade regulations and the conditions for approval of installations should be designed in such a way that these innovative ideas are quickly and unbureaucratically helped to break through. However, I would also ask you not to look at the trade regulations in the empty space, because we have decided on a start-up package and in the coming years thousands of new jobs will be created. There is also an investment package that we have taken a further step towards stimulating the economy, creating investment incentives and employment. And this is exactly what it should be about: to strengthen growth, to resolve existing growth brakes and to strengthen positive accents, so that Austria remains economically successful and employment continues to increase. But let me come briefly to the details of the novices of the trade order! As you know, a project report has already been decided in the Council of Ministers in July, and the amendment was reviewed last Friday. With regard to regulated trades, the extension of the rights currently 7 percent to 15 percent and to free trade to 30 percent; In this way, for example, tiles can also take over work from other industries, such as carpentry, and vice versa. [[Abg. Lugar: Incredible!]] However, it is welcome that all commercial applications, whether regulated or free trade, will be free of charge or of fees and charges of the federal government. With – as last – around 80 000 applications per year, the companies save over € 10 million. The novelle also enshrines the one-stop shop principle according to the motto: a procedure, a notice. – Authorisations concerning construction, nature conservation and water as well as the commercial permit are to be made from a single source. This avoids conflicting public requirements and reduces the duration of the procedure for setting up an undertaking. The currently not really simple simplified authorisation procedure will finally meet its name – provided that there is a two-thirds majority in the House: Operating facilities with a low risk potential will be approved more quickly. This will be done in future by the District Headquarters. Some 6 000 simplified procedures are simplified annually, making it easier for ice cream salons, snacks, coffee houses and small hotels. In order to speed up the procedures, the decision-making deadlines for authorities should be reduced by law. Decisions are to be adopted within four months at the latest, instead of six months, after receipt. The decision-making period in the so-called simplified authorisation procedure is reduced from three months to two months. Industrial plant law is simplified. For example, innovative companies can carry out temporary activities such as pop-up stores free of approval. And because of the absence of the neighboring directory, companies will save 60,000 basic book surveys per year in the future. Despite the numerous improvements and reliefs, we would have wanted further improvements by social democrats. The access of the SPÖ is known: We want to regulate where the practice of commerce can influence body, life or wealth. Quality competition, but also the collective contract system and apprenticeship training must of course be maintained. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, SPÖ has also proposed a number of regulated industries in which it can imagine easier access, and the SPÖ has also advocated that a single commercial application should be sufficient to carry out all activities that do not require a separate qualification certificate. [[Abg. New builder:... as a member of the government or as a speaker of the SPÖ?]] [[Call the SPÖ:Both!]] Ladies and gentlemen, to repeat and clarify it again: We can partly understand the criticism, but this innovation is an essential step in the right direction, but it will certainly not be the final point of our reform projects in commercial law. [[Abg. Lugar: Aha! Where?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4722	I would draw attention to the fact that each other speaker has a speaking time of 5 minutes. Mr Matznetter spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4746	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! That the Stronach team proposes the topic and Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar tells us about the U.S. elections for 10 minutes instead of talking about it is symptomatic. [[Abg. Lugar: You didn't listen!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Whoever calls the system, whether in the U.S. or with us, a system to “break up” and eliminate, is written in the main book: The system is the first democracy and the second rule of law! Where you want to go, there is only where you come from when billionaires, outsiders suddenly appear in the political arena. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Ui! Ui!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Lugar]] Here, too, one was sitting in his place. [[Call the SPÖ: short!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lugar and Mr Steinbichler.]] Where is he, our billionaire and the name-giver for the Stronach team, whom he will not even allow to use the name again in future? - Refugee here! Tax refugee! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] I'm not allowed to say Canada, or maybe his tax charges will get confused. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Mr. colleague, 120... he paid!]] Where is he?- Oh, my God! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lugar.]] Where's Mrs. Rebaur, who was the tandem with him? Is it now refugee and another group? [[Abg. Neubauer: Talk about the business order!]] But she does at least things that have hands and feet. Now there is the Lugar, who has been there before, and tells us how bad the system of democracy and the rule of law is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] To be honest: The minimum knowledge also for our voters is: We don't really need such cross-country beginners! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] – Mr Lugar: Logout! Now on the Industrial Code [[Abg. Steinbichler: thematic failure! Thematic miss!]] The Secretary of State made it clear: Firstly, we did not agree with this draft by Vice-President and Federal Minister Mitterlehner, but we said that this should be reviewed once. [[Abg. Kickl: Just keep going!]] Why? – Because – and the Secretary of State has made this clear – it is making significant progress. Secondly, If we block it before the review now, we will not be able to make any more novels this year. But it's not every day of the evening. We, the SPÖ, agreed to the Council of Ministers' presentation in the Council of Ministers before the summer. This has not yet been fully implemented in the novelle to be reviewed, but we must at some point agree to the Council of Ministers of the Government template and we must find a majority here – and until then negotiations will be held. Just so that it's clear: There are some criticisms that we from the SPÖ would also like us to go further, but I would like to stress once again some of the positive aspects that Mrs State Secretary has already mentioned: significant improvements in the field of operating facilities, reduction of deadlines in simplified procedures – within two months – one-stop-shop procedures. I am waiting for the opposition to be approved, so that there is a two-thirds majority. I would have liked more in terms of operating plant permits. [[Abg. Lugar: Yes, then do it!]] If my neighbor had a dog and I didn't want this dog in my garden to do something unpleasant to me, then I can't go to the Animal Authority and tell him not to give the permission for his dog, but I have to go to the District Court. However, in the case of the type-approval, which is much more important, the neighbor can say to himself without any cost risk and without risk: I don't want that! [[Abg. Lugar: Make a fence, then fuck...!]] There is an example: Maria Fekter is not in the hall, but as a party to the commercial process she has successfully prevented the carver from expanding his business in Attnang-Puchheim. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] To be honest, she should be able to prevent it as a neighbor, but she should do it at a level where, if she – or someone else – is wrong, she also has the risk of losing it in court. I still wish for movement, even with the coalition partner – perhaps we can do that. But something else is decisive: The trade order has been in existence for 150 years now – it can't have been that bad that way, otherwise we wouldn't have so great businesses. [[Abg. Lugar: That's an argument, you are silly! Everything 150 years old is good, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] We must therefore reform them evolutionaryly, but we must not let them collapse. It's amazing, many have wondered: We have over 400 free trades. We wanted a business permit in this area, because what are we to register for several times? But this makes the coalition partner difficult. Many economic officials are in front of the sections and are afraid that this will remove the basis. I don't understand. There would have been a commercial license and we would have made the assignment to the profession as a report to the Chamber of Commerce. Let's talk about it. We now have more in the regulated industries, 81 instead of 80; we will also have to talk about it. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] With all due regard to our friends, the horses: I do not understand that the hoofing is regulated, and that the production of ice cream is now free, not quite; I could perhaps have imagined that the other way round. Let's talk about it! We are doing this, and it will be a good reform. I'm sorry for the Stronach team: It was a good approach, but it didn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e4989	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5011	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The situation on the labour market in Austria is too serious than that I want to get involved in a party-political struggle with the Stronach team. The fact is that the government has recognized the need for action, and I am already allowed to point out a number of measures that this government has set in this year, in order not to lose the connection, for example to Germany, when it comes to strengthening the location. Think back to the start-up program, which has mainly operated State Secretary Harald Mahrer to strengthen Austria when it comes to modern technologies when it comes to encouraging young entrepreneurs. That was successful – first point. Second point: We want to invest in Austria, and we expect that the new investment increase premium for small and medium-sized enterprises will stimulate investment of up to € 1 billion, which would mean 25 000 jobs. € 175 million, available for small and medium-sized enterprises, that's something you have to see. If there are 10 to 15 percent premiums for businesses that invest in addition, then the companies feel that. In the case of the requests and the feedback, we note that this is seen positively. Now I come to the trade order: Also, what has been presented here by Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner, we should not talk small, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, Gabriel Obernosterer, who is the hoteler, showed us in the club – and with us in the club are entrepreneurs – very clearly what this means for him. He needs five commercial rights so far; if we implement this reform, one will be sufficient. This means that a hotelier will be able to pick up his guests without needing a further business license, for example from the train station and offer other services. [[Abg. Lugar: Sensational! Sensational!]] – Not sensational, but a step in the right direction! See something positive, Mr Lugar! Don't always be absolutely negative! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lugar: After 30 years...!]] If 80 000 industrial applications, which were necessary so far, are no longer necessary in the future, entrepreneurs will not only save money, but they will also save themselves trouble and time, for each one of us knows that every administrative route is at least linked to time, sometimes also with anger. This too goes in the right direction. I am of the opinion of the honourable Member, Mr Matznetter, who mentioned it earlier on the issue of plant plant law. The President of the Chamber of Commerce spoke of a “milestone”. You have also come from Schelte as far as the chambers are concerned: Since 1945, Austria has managed to make significant improvements every year. We have established a social and health system that is unique across Europe. But the basis for this is, of course, the economic power that Austria has had so far. The Chambers – and I mean the Chamber of Workers and the Chamber of Agriculture and I also include the Trade Union Confederation – have made a significant contribution to the social partners. That was part of the success story of Austria that we succeeded in solving conflicts at the green table and not on the street. [[Abg. Lugar: “That was”!]] For example, in the field of apprenticeship training, we have set up a system – the dual system, which is seen as a model throughout Europe and worldwide – which the Chamber of Commerce has given massive support to. In addition, as a small export-oriented economy, we have managed to earn 6 out of 10 € by exports. What the Chamber of Commerce has built up in the external economy, Mr Matznetter, is Europe-wide, something that we need to see positively and that we should not see negatively. [[Abg. Lugar: Tell me why the ÖVP is constantly blocking, together with the Chamber of Commerce! Why is it blocked?]] Let me mention another point: If lifelong learning is necessary, then the WIFI is also a model example; there are 32 000 courses. So let's not make the chambers bad! The Chambers have made their great contribution, but they must also be prepared to contribute to reforms. I'm like other reforms at Matznetter: We will be positive about this proposal in terms of trade regulations and we will be able to achieve a good result together.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5096	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5118	Good morning, Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! At the beginning I can welcome a round of gentlemen from the municipality of Mühldorf in Carinthia with their Obmann Christian Dürnle – welcome to the Hohe Haus! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and Team Stronach.]] Mrs. State Secretary, I am surprised that you are sitting here at this current hour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I am convinced that you, as a lawyer in human rights and EU law, are securely decorated and that you are well aware of it, but on the other hand it is a poverty certificate for the ÖVP – the economic party, as she always calls herself –: The Minister of Economic Affairs lacks an hour's notice of business regulation and lacks the spokesperson of the ÖVP. – Saying Please never again, you are the economic party and represent the Austrian economy! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] This is a witness of poverty! [[Abg. Lopatka: I haven't seen anything yet! I haven't seen the clubman yet!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, it would be better for you not to mention the word reform either, because the reform of the trade order announced by you, by the government, in the summer break is nowhere in this novel or in this novel. That is the fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have not addressed the important points, and if you look at the original of the commercial order from 1859, you see, in the commercial order today many things still stand in it as they were demanded at that time, and you realize how far behind you are actually. [[keeping an expression of the Reichsgesetzblatt in height]] You didn't do anything to the regulated trades. They have not shortened anything, on the contrary, we do not now have 80, but 81 regulated trade. - Congratulations! As it was so beautiful from the Agenda Austria, it was actually high time that 140 years after the invention of the Ottomotor, the huffsmiths were finally regulated. [[We welcome the FPÖ and Mr Loacker, Mr Steinbichler and Mr Strolz.]] This has been put to the fore and says exactly what you have done – or claim to have done – with this trade order. Mr Matznetter, I very much appreciate that you are also sitting in the Chamber of Commerce. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] If you say at the speaker's desk: I would have liked more!, then I say: Well, we all wanted each other more. I was only surprised that your counterpart, Mr Lopatka, did not say that he would have wanted to be less, because in this reform there is nothing in it. In addition, this novel – from this novel – has resulted in a winner, namely the chamber. [[Abg. Matznetter: Hufschmied!]] If in the evening after the announcement of this so-called trade reform, one has heard the statements of Mr Leitel and has seen his facial expression, then one has known what this means: Hurra, we won! Do you know who the great loser is? – The economic location and thus Austria. You have not managed to finally start a real reform. You've announced it, but you haven't. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I could now give you a lot of examples. You know, for example, that there are more business licences than traders – more than 200 000. In other words, there are traders who pay for three or four commercial tickets in the chamber, registration fees and so on. The only thing that should be recognized as positive in this referendum is the changes in plant law. [[Abg. Matznetter: And by-laws!]] That's all right, but I'm going to measure you by how you're going to shape that in the implementation, because what you're giving of yourself is just lip recognition. I come back to one more argument of the ÖVP: It has been argued that the number of regulated trade cannot be reduced by risking apprenticeship training. – Where do you actually live?- Oh, my God! You know, it's totally irrelevant whether a trade is regulated or whether it's a free trade! If today an entrepreneur – no matter what he does – wants to exist on the market, then he is on his own initiative to always be up-to-date and deliver quality goods in an appropriate time. [[Abg. Lugar: That's how it looks! It's called the market economy! What's part of it?]] Otherwise, he doesn't have a chance on the market. Linking this to the trade order is an absolute nonsense! I don't know where you're thinking. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] In my speech I did not deal with the presidential election in America, but at the end of the day a few words to the Austrian population: Now we know that the election in America has not gone out the way the system wanted, but one thing is clear as well: [[Abg. Schultes: Who is “the system ”?]] [[Abg. Kickl: (in empty places in the ranks of the ÖVP fraction significant) That where you have gone, that is the system! You're at the wrong event today!]] If one has heard the statements of the Presidential candidate Van der Bellen about what he thinks about Trump, one also knows that it is under a President Van der Bellen would be impossible to invite the most powerful president of this world to Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5282	Next speaker: Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5303	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Several months ago the government announced that it wanted to create a business license for all 440 free trade. The government has announced this, but simply not delivered it, and it is strange for me to speak here today – Mr Matznetter has said it – of “essential progress”. If you look at the specific figures, the case figures – the partially regulated trade is largely released in the future – then you can see that you have reformed 1 percent and left 99 percent. It is easy to calculate this by means of the individual business certificates concerned. [[Abg. Lugar: The Matznetter is an economic chamberer!]] That is to say, it is termed “significant progress” that one has attacked 1 percent in the trade order. – That’s really a courageous statement. Mr Lopatka says: “We shall come to a good result.” – Listen You're good at: “We shall”! – So you have not come to a good result, but you will come to a good result. This is anyway a revelation of the negotiations that took place between red and black. It's already striking when ads are turned on in the media: The trade unionists – trade unionists, I think, were less, but trade unionists – let ads switch to economic chamber costs. This has to be broken on the tongue, which an alliance has formed in order to demonstrate the 160-year-old trade order and not change it. There are some fields of action. For example, we have also repeatedly mentioned Chamber 2: We demand an additional wage reduction and would like to take away 308 million € per year from the Chamber by means of the chamber envelope 2 and question the ten-fold structures in the Chamber. Not all bodies have to be nine times, plus once again at the federal level, but one could create a body in many areas, which then represents the federal states all over Austria. So that's certainly a subject. If then the secondary activities are expanded – 30 percent/15 percent – then I have to admit, at the first moment quite well, but legal certainty does not succeed. Who will then interpret around, who will lead the statistics when an installer comes and then by the way makes a small joiner's work? I don't think the board will speak offensively for it either. So if a trader asks what kind of answer does he get? What business license should he or she make out? - That's anything but clear. Or there will be a campaign of the Chamber of Commerce: unsubscribe now!Unknown term type: "%s".? This would actually be the logical consequence of this 30 percent rule: You have five business certificates, please unsubscribe two! – Do they then receive a letter from the Chamber of Commerce? [[Abg. Matznetter: Would be hot!]] Or how will this happen? – I look at that! [[Abg. Matznetter: But would be good!]] What's also a topic: We cannot regulate everything in the trade order. This is also a topic from our point of view. In particular, we should regulate the type-approval of the plant and not include it in the trade regulations. The issue of apprenticeship training is not just a question of the trade regulations, as it is often described here. And yes, we also accept and understand the argument with the collective agreements, but look at the specific cases: If you turn to the Chamber of Commerce and say you're wrong and you're not in the right collective agreement – you can try it – then the Chamber of Commerce will say: We're not doing anything now, we're talking about our own Chamber of Commerce. You're going to the Labour Court! So this question, where you are being classified, cannot be solved. We Greens have very pragmatic access, even in view of the figures from Germany. You should not repeat some mistakes, that is quite clear, but fact is also: In Germany, 41 trades are regulated, and in Austria it is 81 – 41 to 81 in the future, which is the double. It is already a bit absurd if, in Austria, part-time industry such as bicycle technology is to be released, which are still regulated even in Germany. We find far better examples here. In contrast to what Mr Mitterlehner said at the last press conference, we have access to the subject-matter criteria: That's a question of faith! – That was also a revelation: That is a question of faith, a question of who believes what. - Oh, great! Great! But we would like to have professional criteria and a list. We have even created an Excel table ourselves. It's just being looked at: Where is there a danger to body and life? Where is there a danger to the environment? Where is the protection of property? Logically, a real estate agent should know what a basic book is; no one will question it. And then, together, we unravel this trade order, according to these technical criteria and not according to the criterion, who yells louder or who believes what, for that cannot be it. – That would be our approach to going through it once in a while. It is then certain that, for example, such things as personal care, old-age care, 24-hour care are probably more strictly regulated, as it is a matter of working with people, while other industries such as tourist guides are already asking where there is a risk to life and body. There are plenty of other examples in this regard. We believe that we will surely find 20 more trades when we establish objective criteria, and we hope that a constructive debate will take place in the review process. We are not like Mr. Lugar with Trump: We do not do that, but we simply want to adopt the rules of commerce in accordance with these criteria. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5380	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5401	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Lopatka is not in the hall now, but one, Mr Matznetter, Mr Lopatka, is clear: This system we're running here, which you're extending here, is sick. The fact that the social partners have earned great merit is beyond dispute, but that is, of course, a long time ago. That belongs to the house of history, what they have done, that belongs to signposted and described there – Chapeau!, Hut pull – but what they do today is to manage the maroden. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schopf and Mr Königsberger-Ludwig]] It's a marod system. You want to raise this to the constitutional rank, you want to further emphasize it, and that makes people crazy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] And then you wonder that people choose “Fuck the system”! Then you really wonder that people say: I want to see this system on my knees! – This system is to be forced into the knees, and we will help because this system is against people. This system is against the people who want to tackle something that wants to do something that wants to contribute to the prosperity of this country. When young people sit on the visitor gallery and say: Yes, I want to make myself independent!, what is the message of ÖVP and SPÖ? – We will paper you wherever it goes, we will throw you pummels between your feet, we will put stones in your way! Sepp Schellhorn needs a total of eleven business licences for his businesses! - Yes, Christoph Matznetter, are you all right?- Oh, my God! [[Rejoicing with the Stronach team.]] Are you all right? The highest unemployment for 70 years, and you are putting these beatings between your feet to entrepreneurs who should create jobs! You don't have a genius – I feel that the ÖVP has a genius, because the group is only half present. It's not a clubman in the hall, it's not an economic speaker here – you have a damn bad conscience! You know that's wrong what you're doing. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] You don't even dare to look people in your eyes. You're walling where it goes, but you don't even dare to do it in public. The Chamber of Commerce in today's structure is only there for the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Lugar: Right!]] The commercial structure is just that because the Chamber of Commerce is so because you have entrepreneurs like Sepp Schellhorn paid eleven times, and that is ill. [[Abg. Lugar: Right!]] People want to see this system on their knees, and I understand it and I will contribute to it where I can. But we will always provide positive solutions. We have also said this time how it has to be done: Instead of 81 regulated industries, let us make 26 industry! Where body, life, wealth and the environment are in danger, these regulations need to be agreed, but in all other areas it does not need to be. It takes a business license per entrepreneur, and not eleven or twelve or fifteen, so you have to pay fifteen times. Quality assurance is needed; such a guarantee will continue to be possible. I was a businessman myself for twelve years. I have also trained apprentices, and this is not dependent on whether there was a regulation in my trade or not; this can be solved quite differently. By the way: As a clubman, a member of the government I have a professional ban, I also have to give up my company, and now, for example, I pay an administrative fee every year for my retired trade – for the fact that I have put my trade back, for that I am managed in an Excel file, I have to pay every year! [[Abg. Schimanek: ‘Government member’?- Oh, my God!]] These are the diseases that make up this system and we do not understand citizens. We're going to be re-socked every day, and I'm saying, Stop it! We're not ready to take this. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] We say we need jobs, jobs, jobs – and that is what we need, because what is the prospect of having completed schooling today and then waiting for the highest unemployment for 70 years?- Oh, my God! This is not a message I want to send out to these young people, but I want to say: You should have the chance to have all the chances of this world! It is the greatest time there has ever been to live, but for that we have to create opportunities. We also want to create it, but that is only when the miners and blockers of this republic finally leave out, and we will work on it. [[Abg. Lugar: Right!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5511	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5532	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at the visitor gallery and in front of the televisions! I think, Mr Rädler, that this issue is too important for you to put in your cheap calls, which are just confirming what my previous speaker, Mr Strolz, said: [[a brochure by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy entitled “Action Programme for the Future of the Medium-term – New edition 2016” in front of the speaker’s desk]] Where are the contacts, the representatives of the ÖVP on this subject? [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That's an outing! That's an outing: You don't want to hear the discussion at all. You already fear the discussion on the subject, and that is the essential thing. Mr Matznetter, I'm disappointed. I know that Frank Stronach is not a friend of the trade unions, but that is why it is not for you to express yourself easily here about a man who has paid the wages of 120,000 people, who is now creating 2,000 new jobs in the Styria through his work with Magna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Mr Matznetter, I prefer those fellow Members who feed the cow who care for the cow, than those who milk the cow, and you have to remember that. You're a milker. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] In the first place on this important subject, I am able to express my thanks to all the workers, to all the craftsmen and to all entrepreneurs, for they are the basis for our being able to discuss here at all. As I passed the building site down there today by the way from the hotel, I thought it would be good for some speakers or some responsible politicians to spend a week at such a construction site, at wets – not such a beautiful weather as today – in fog, wind, cold and rain. Once a roofer or a spongler crashes, a second later five experts on site who have never done this work, but who raise what was the cause of the five expensive expertises, but who cannot help the poor person at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchgatterer.]] This is the problem, not the trade order, not the few member contributions that can be saved, as has just been said, because, like Mr Obernosterer, we now have to pay only three times more membership contributions instead of five times. The bureaucratic needlesticks are it, the triple and quadruple controls and powers are it! Please read the book of the former Finance Minister and Deputy Chancellor Androsch and the former President of the Court of Auditors Moser, entitled “Consistency”. It describes exactly where the problems lie. While there are 17 experts and officials in Austria for a construction project, there are two in Switzerland, and this takes the air on the entrepreneurs – and the government's debt policy as well as the non-implementation of the announced reforms. We were visiting Germany the other day, in Berlin. Mr Lopatka was with me, Mr Hechtl led the delegation. There is a very different momentum, there is a business-friendly, labour-friendly climate, which has a highest order, and at the same time that there is a maximum order position, there is already a new action programme for SMEs. [[pointing to the brochure]] This is how forward-looking, inclusive policy looks – and not how to manage, hold back and hold back. This is the problem, exactly the appearance we now have. It is therefore legitimate for the citizens, as my previous speakers have said, to protest against this system. They don't like this system anymore. The fact that this government is unable to act is also confirmed by the fact that every proposal made by this government has an immediate opposition from the Chambers – the social partners in the first place, and then the national conference. – Yes, please, who can do something? No one in the government has the opportunity to work on the matter because he has to take his clientele into account, and that is exactly the footband that prevents all forms in this country, in this government. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In support of the presentation of this financial situation, I have a very interesting article by Mr Urschitz, who on 28 October, It was published in the “Press” in October, with the subject of implicit public debt. On the occasion of the budget, we have really debated the structural zero deficit. We are much more indebted to public debt, because very significant items such as new investment, education policy, care or asylum costs are not included, because the Minister of Finance has to borrow this money. And this is the problem that businessmen complain about: these additional wage costs, in terms of which, at the level of almost 50 per cent, one must already talk about wage capital costs. Mr Rädler, please listen! [[Abg. Rädler talks to Abg. Shot helmet]] Don't make a cheap call at the beginning and then have a call!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5650	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5665	That's the problem! Madam President, I am already at the end of my remarks. I believe that this present hour is significant for the fact that this Federal Government does not take seriously the legitimate concerns and fears of entrepreneurs, workers and the craftsman and therefore is not present at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5695	The next item is Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5717	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall try to bring this debate back to an objective level. We are living today in a world characterized by rapid innovation cycles. Those who succeed today can already be part of the old iron tomorrow. I would like to mention a few examples of this, such as Nokia, a company whose business ideas in mobile phones were very decisive; today Nokia is only a shadow of its past. [[Abg. Lugar: How the Chamber of Commerce!]] Or do we remember Kodak, a company that had invented digital photography leading the market? Yes, the first digital camera was on the market! Where do we see this company today? – It has only 10 percent of the turnover of the 1990s. We can see from these examples how fast-lived our economy has become. Even though Austria is successful today, we must do everything we can to create structures that enable and stimulate developments for new business ideas. In this context, I am already looking forward to the innovation of the trade order and – unlike some of my previous speakers – I do not see anything negative. We have reduced bureaucracy and designed Austria for the future, through a social-democratic initiative and further support for the self-employed in Austria, because we create framework conditions for an innovative Austria, for the creation of new businesses and jobs. We will now reduce some other bureaucratic obstacles: For example, I may mention the simplification of the plants we have heard about today, or that we have re-regulated the business licences and that we have abolished the sub-business – all good things and innovations. However, I would like to say quite clearly: I would have liked even more courage from our coalition partner, yes, I have missed it in many, many points. That is why I will also wait for the review phase and take Mr Lopatka – unfortunately he is not in the hall – to speak, as he has said that we will be able to achieve a good result. I am excited because across borders today we have to support those who represent the tip of innovation in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am thinking of start-ups, those smaller businesses that invest in the future and thus also in Austria. Austria has become particularly strong because various camps have worked together and built it up. Today we are taking a step in the right direction, even if it is a smaller one. Still again: I call for more courage to be responsible for the people, for the independent people here in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also entails a social component, because digital opportunities create many opportunities, but also many risks, and therefore they must be perceived. We social democrats stand for social protection for the tradesmen, we stand for entrepreneurs with children; of which I can sing a song myself. We are not measured in words, ladies and gentlemen, but in deeds. The location Austria is not a hollow term, no, it must be our goal. And that's what I wish. The responsibility raised, which is particularly relevant to SMEs, concerns in particular 1.8 million jobs and stops us from reporting 20 000 new businesses each year. So we do well to work together, to stay at the ball and to question every detail, to set every lever in motion in order to secure jobs in Austria. A few points to finish: With this amendment, we have also simplified provisions for the master and qualification exams, and in my view this is actually the best point, because I am convinced that: If we want to look to the future with confidence, training must never be ignored. I particularly like the link between vocational and academic education, if, for example, the master's and qualification examinations create the technical conditions for access to a higher education or Bachelor's degree. We have already launched a project with the “Teacher with Matura” that is characterised by success. Please let us stay here at the ball and continue this successful path! Summary: So the Federal Government has tied up a trend-setting package. In addition, it's our job to stay here at the ball and make a lot of sense that all this will get even better. In particular, social democracy must continue to work intensively for an entrepreneurial, innovative Austria, with social manuscript, because this is what our small and medium-sized enterprises need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5765	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e5787	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners at the gallery and also at home! Today's debate seems to me to be a little shrill as you started it, Robert Lugar: To create the Spagat between the Austrian Industrial Order and the choice in America is already an art piece. [[Abg. Lugar: What?]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... call it dirty!]] We have an excellent system with the trade system, and I would like to expressly retain this here – a system that has enabled businesses to re-emerge on world markets over the decades. [[Abg. Lugar: Exactly!]] We earn 60 percent of our revenue and therefore 60 percent of our wealth not in Austria, but in foreign markets. This requires quality before quantity, and if we are discussing today whether it needs more quantity and whether it is unreasonable for companies to undergo proof that they are also mastering the industry in which they want to operate, then it is not only inappropriate because it may bring future customers into situations that could harm them but also because entrepreneurs need some kind of self-protection. [[Abg. Loacker: It always needs it!]] [[Abg. Lugar: This has nothing to do with the trade order!]] You have to be sure that they can really master and control what they offer. [[Abg. Lugar: The industry doesn't need that?]] [[Abg. Loacker: Do you believe what you say?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] No one would have the idea of leaving someone who has not shown that he can drive a car in the road traffic. So we don't make it that easy and we don't say that everything for everyone would now be so almost the final conclusion of wisdom. No, we are in favour of proof that qualifications are needed so that we can maintain entrepreneurial quality in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: What about the industry? She doesn't need that?]] Our claim is healthy businesses with growth potential that employ employees, train employees, and thus can really benefit from their opportunities in the increasingly competitive markets. [[Abg. Lugar: Protectionism!]] Staff training is one of the critical points in the question: Is it necessary for a master company to do this? – Yes, he needs it quite clearly, because the experience and what is happening in other countries shows what happens when you release business – Germany has shown it and is already on the way back –: If there is no more motivation among entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs cannot be proud of their master titles, they can no longer be proud to pass on their knowledge, then less will be trained. I just need to look around in Austria. We have released the photographers, today there are a third of fewer apprentices with the photographers than there were before. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Oh you!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Crazy! The analogy, you have to make a spagate!]] – Unfortunately, I haven't heard it now, but you can still tell me afterwards. [[Abg. Lugar: Yes, please!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The current approach to changing the trade regulations thus ensures that our quality is maintained. What is regulated in this new trade regulation has already been done in detail by my previous speakers. But one thing is very important to me: The education sector meets the trade regulations in a twofold way. With the maintenance of the Masters, we have the opportunity to include these entrepreneurs in the national quality framework. We want the Master's degree to be the same as an academic education, we advocate that the Masters come to Bachelor's level so that at last these discriminations cease to be experienced by people who have started their careers, not through academic training, but through vocational training.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6021	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Klinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6042	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! The fact is that this trade regulation is a new draft assessment – a draft assessment, whose implementation we will of course be eagerly expecting; and the different approaches to this assessment draft are, in fact, already explaining to us the basic problem that we have on this subject. If one considers the negotiators for this trade regulation, then it is the Council of Ministers on the one hand and the Chamber of Commerce on the other, and of course it is the case that the Council of Ministers represents the political interests and the Chamber of Commerce the interests of the Chamber of Commerce. The problem is, of course, that none of these two institutions actually represent the economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think we all agree in this House that we want to bring this Austria – Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, unfortunately, he is not here now, I am convinced that all of us here in this House are absolute democrats – back to where it once stood, not too long ago, namely at the top of the international rankings. [[Abg. Lugar: That doesn't interest anyone, the subject!]] This will not be so easy, however, because this system, which we are currently friends with, is very clumsy. It is becoming increasingly difficult to resolve these crusts and actually to solve the problems in our state. An example of this: Since the beginning of 2000, I have been a representative of the Economic Parliament of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. I must say again and again that the voting behaviour of the mandates, the National Councils, in the Economic Parliament is quite different from that of this House. Finally, an example from the history with the field organizations and the registers, where pre-disciplinary organizations do not need a register fund: In the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, this was adopted unanimously, or at least by a majority, by a large majority – and here in this House those representatives who voted in the Economic Parliament for this whole, very crucial matter leave the hall so that they do not have to vote. I deliberately don't want to name any names, because that wouldn't be a good thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. State Secretary Duzdar, if one reads down all the topics proposed in the draft review in such a complex matter as this trade regulation, then one cannot make a mistake, namely that at the beginning of this read-down speech, one says “a small step” and at the end “an essential step” as you did. So I believe that it has not been possible to take an essential step, because of the facts I mentioned earlier. What will be indispensable in the future if, as we have said, we want to lead this Austria – and we will all be in agreement here: We must create a slim state in all circumstances, at all levels of the Constitution. That is to say, we must make ourselves as slim as possible in Parliament with all the institutions in the Chambers, in the countries, in the second level of the Constitution and in the municipalities. Only then will we be able to get back to the international scene. And that will also be the most important thing for this House in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Sad to say, when a renowned newspaper writes, it's been a farceeded opportunity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6097	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6120	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! No, it will not be a bad chance, the reform of the trade regulation is now under review. Now it is important to work to ensure that the positive aspects of the release of businesses can be implemented. Yes, the trade order is 150 years old. And now it is important to actually arrive in the present time. Why is reform necessary? – It needs to be facilitated for companies. It needs the impetus for the economy. All the experts you know in this field clearly say that this requires an appropriate step, and the one that has now been done is too small, too small, and therefore it needs to be strengthened and improved. Mrs Jank, you mentioned the example of Germany. Germany reduced its regulated trades from 91 to 41 in 2004, and I ask myself: What happened? Has the situation of companies become so worse? Has the economic situation become worse for Germany? Or has even the place of the German economy become worse in the international landscape? – All of this has not happened. They have taken advantage of the opportunities, and I believe that this should be the case with us in Austria as well. But for concrete examples: A metal and glass construction company in Upper Austria, very successful with around 100 employees, does not need a commercial license, but a variety. I'd like to add these to you now: This company needs a business license for the glass shop, for metallurgy, for lockery, speltery, the master of rooms, for the engineering office, for computer system technology. And if high-tech lamels are still installed in the glass facades, it also needs a commercial license for electric technicians. – Do you find that normal in this form? That is something that belongs to simplified, and that is exactly what needs to be further driven forward. But another example, where it was actually about the release, namely the release of the sub-sector: There is the production of live tents and candied and fried fruits, there is the production of ice cream in it, the repair of shoes – okay, good, small steps, I give the Secretary of State to the woman. These are small steps. But, of course, in this context, the question is: Why can't the steps go further and why can't there be any approvals, for example, in the trade of the tourist leaders? No one can explain that. Or: Gold and silversmiths, organ builders, shoemakers – there are a wide range of areas where we are convinced that it would also be useful to take another step there, while, of course, keeping in mind that consumer protection is, of course, also a matter of ensuring further professional qualifications. But I think that these are the areas that you should and can regulate differently. Now it is time to look at all the facts that are on the table, to analyze, to look at: What does the location actually need, what do companies and employees actually need in this area? to take the next steps and actually move. I am counting on this movement and I am looking forward to further debates in the committees.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6167	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6190	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs State Secretary! The question was that it was important for the government to fight this high level of unemployment. And it was primarily the German Chancellor's core that was to support and promote the companies. And it was mainly about bringing about a big reform – at least in August – that was what it was called. That's a huge fairy tale! It's just as big a fairy tale that this party is an entrepreneurship party – it's a prevention party! [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] They are promoting the Chamber to prevent trade! In my opinion, the reform is not even worth the paper. As Mr Ecker said that she was pointing away, I ask myself: Where's what? 81 regulated trade, is this groundbreaking? Instead of the reform 80 after the reform 81 – the hufschmied came along, Mr Matznetter mentioned it correctly. But he also voted in favour. The social partners are leading this government at the Nasenring through the maneuver. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] And the social partners say what can and should not be done here. So don't talk about other fairy tales telling! – The biggest fairy tales tell us: that it is important to you that it is about jobs and that it is about a discharge from entrepreneurs. - Everything else is a lie.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6235	Mr Schellhorn, you know that we have agreed that we uphold the dignity of the House in our expression. I would ask you to take that back and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6251	Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm taking it back. I am at home in Salzburg and have three companies with one purpose, namely that of the tourist service. What I need to do is read here, so to speak – Leo Steinbichler said that – like a family tree of an inheritanceyard. It's the same. I need one and the same four chamber memberships, eight section memberships and eleven commercial certificates. I got it here, and before you tell about fairy tales, look at this! [[Keeping a document in height]] That's from the Federal Ministry of Economics, that's the register that's right here. That's what I need to do the same business. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jank.]] Now tell me it's especially important for entrepreneurs to be relieved. The Chamber for Industrial Prevention! It sets out safeguard measures so that free competition cannot take place. It sets up protective measures so that small businesses cannot lock up to create new jobs. That's reality. Your fairy tale hour will soon arrive – if you wake up in reality and see that the entrepreneurs turn away from you, as this side does not feel that something is being done here for the entrepreneurs. That's what it's all about now. That is why this trade reform is going on. They can never claim in life that this is the great throw and trailing. It's exactly the opposite. I believe that in the very least, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Bundeskanzler are ashamed of what has been set in motion. It's not a big throw, it's a mole. This is anything but a trade reform. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] It still shows who is ruling in this country. It is the social partners who buy and say: That's what happens and that happens, and you're just doing what we want. – That's why no one believes in you anymore. That is why no one no longer believes in the continuation of this government, which has promised a joy of reform, which is not a joy of reform. It's just frustration. Anything other than that would be different. I think you'd be on the right path if you wanted to relieve businessmen. I was just talking about a federal country. I've only spoken about Salzburg now. If I still have a farm in Upper Austria, I need exactly the same thing again. And they are happy because, as the President of the Chamber said, Of something the chamber must live on, too. [[Call the team Stronach:Genau!]] Here is the living proof of what the Chamber is living on and what it is doing, and then the President of the Chamber of the Government is to: The structures need to be changed, reforms must be introduced. The most unsatisfying person is the one who has the nose ring in his hand, and that is the President of the Chamber with his social partners. I think it's time for the government to come to mind and just say: There's nothing left. We want new elections, and we finally need reforms. That would be a chance to free us from this standstill.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6315	The next item is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6337	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The result of the trade reform is very modest. It's not the big throw, as all experts say. But as you can hear from the SPÖ, you are anything but satisfied with the result. I'll tell you: It is surprising for us as the opposition party if we constantly hear from the Government Party SPÖ what it is not able to do in the government. Why should I put it? You don't finally want to reform? Moving back and forth from one government party to another, and no one is responsible, is an advantage for the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But what you hear again and again: The Chamber of Commerce has met 100 percent of its claims. - After congratulations! They met 100 percent of the demands. This is probably very positive for you as a representative of the Chamber of Commerce. For those who want to become independent outside, this is still a inhibitory shoe – a inhibitory shoe that prevents them from actually going into independence. Ladies and gentlemen, addressed to the ÖVP: That doesn't fit in for me. On the one hand, you are the great promoters of globalisation, that is, competition for every individual in this country with a global economic power, competition at an uneven level at an uneven level. On the other hand, you are the ones who want to preserve encapsulated, old structures and thus prevent competition in their own country. A small example: A Kärntner Schornsteinfeger, Gebhart Hiebler, dared to advertise customers in a foreign district. A competitor complained that he was getting right in both instances because of the violation of the territorial protection. But the Supreme Court turned to the European Court of Justice on the question: Is not EU law being violated here? The answer came quite clearly: Yes, there may be a violation of EU law here. That is, ladies and gentlemen, Austria is likely to have to expect an EU infringement procedure in the near future, because we have so well-crusted structures that are not even EU-compliant and prevent competition in that country. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Kreisky government, the trade order has been really mentioned in every government concept. In fact, nothing has gone on in recent years – nothing but hot air, nothing but promise. Each of you will have heard x-times from the one-stop shop in the last twenty years. Finally, a one-stop shop where construction and water law, nature conservation law, industrial law areas are dealt with and where it is possible to quickly and competently resolve the respective tasks for young entrepreneurs in such a way that they are able to take up their activities quickly. – Nothing has happened, nothing but a standstill! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If Mr Lopatka says that we must not miss the connection to Germany, he is likely to have missed the fact that we have long failed to connect to Germany in the economic field. In Austria, there has been the highest unemployment for fifty years, in Germany the lowest for 25 years. There's something wrong in our country! Our people are just as diligent, just as committed, want to move a lot. Through the government, its laws, the framework conditions – starting from the tax laws – which we find in Austria, citizens are inhibited from developing their activities freely. That is why it must not be surprising that we have been tenfold in public debt since 1980, while economic performance has only been quadrupled. That is to say, the debt is galloping us because the government is unable to operate properly. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary: Austria loses attractiveness. If we do not want youth to grow up without perspective, grow up without a future, or look forward to a future without perspective, then we must do everything we can to ensure that reforms are finally taking place in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6404	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:30:03]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6427	That is why we now come to the current European hour on the subject: “The lessons from CETA: Why Europe needs to become a republic.” In our midst, I welcome Mr. Federal Chancellor Mag. Christian Kern and the Members of the European Parliament nominated to participate in the current European hour. These are for the club of the Social Democratic Karoline Grasswander-Hainz, for the ÖVP Mag. Othmar Karas, for the Green Club Michel Reimon and for the Club of NEOS Mag. Dr. Angelika Mlinar. Welcome! Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Strolz, was the first to speak in this debate. 10 minutes speaking time is available to you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6464	Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! The current European hour is a format here in Parliament in which one puts a focus, the headlights focus on a European topic which is important to a political force here in the House. Europe is a big heart concern to us NEOS. This is the place where we remember to live – today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. CETA has also been an important concern for us and will continue to be it. We would like to make a follow-up discussion with a determined look forward. Mr Bundeskanzler, I did not understand how you referred to CETA. I think they were wild bock jumps. These were very wild bocks that didn't open up to me. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I assume that you knew it better and calculated it very populistly. It was a miscalculation. On the one hand, you have suggested and given your members in the SPÖ an understanding that it is important to you to include them, have received a clear vote here with strange questions and then have not adhered to it. After all, you did what you were convinced of from the beginning – I assume. You know that free trade is important for the prosperity of this continent. You know, in a situation where Europe is not going well, it would be the completely wrong answer to say: Let's pull down the rollers, let's make a barbed wire around – free to HC strate – around it – best around 28 nation states – and everything remains good! - Nothing remains good, HC Strache, we're not an island! We are not the island of the Blessed. We are in the heart of a continent that has a great history. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Most of Europe's history was war. War is our past. I wish the future was different. We can learn from the last six decades that were marked by a relationship, of prosperity, peace, quality of life for all generations from young to old, as they are sitting here in the galleries today. We will only be able to cultivate prosperity on this continent if we cultivate together. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And damn it again. If we don't get together with Canada, who else? There is no European country outside Europe than Canada. There's none. We already have to look forward to a clear view and ask: In which world, Mr. Federal Chancellor, will we live tomorrow? In what world will my children live in the young people sitting here on the gallery today? How does the world look 2050? We don't know in detail, but some things we know: Africa will develop from a billion people to two billion people, as it looks. We know that India will increase from over 1.1 billion today to 1.7 billion people in 2050. [[Call the SPÖ:1,3!]] – 1,3, depending on who counts, but 1,7 in 2050. We know that China will land around 1.3 or 1.4 billion in 2050. Now the question is: What do we derive from this? Do we conclude that in Austria we are going to all kinds of demonstrations that propel national demolition and protest there in a Che Guevara leiberl from Bangladesh and post it with the iPhone, as some greens do? – I consider this to be irrational because it serves the stupid nonsense that is currently overlieving this planet. [[Call:Well, hello.]] I think you should not put yourself in the alliance of those who simplify things like this, but just have a clear look at the questions: What role should Europe play in the future? What role will Austria play in the future? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Walser and Mr Oellinger.]] – One thing, Harald Walser, is quite clear: 1.7 billion Indians, 1.3 or 1.4 billion Chinese, is the future of our children. Then the question is: What standards will apply to this planet if Europe does not set common standards if Europe does not meet standards? [[Unrest at the FPÖ.]] Which standards will I ask you at the Che Guevara Leiberl from Bangladesh? – Yes, I have to repeat myself, because this is obviously not so easy for you to understand. [[Abg. Oillinger: Can you repeat that with the Chinese!]] That's why the derivative for me is quite clear: We need a European Republic. Mr Bundeskanzler, I ask you to stand up for this. My dream, my vision is that my children wake up once, and I also, in a European republic that cultivates the commonness in which one has a European passport in hand, is a European people, which says: Yes, the power goes from the people. – This is not the case at present. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's why people are so ate. They do not feel that in Europe the power goes from the people. They feel that they are going, they are being shaken, and that is why they want to force the elites into their knees here in Europe too. I understand it here, too. That's why we have to come into another way. The power goes from the people, saying: There's a government that's been ordered on time. This is not the case everywhere, either in Russia or in Turkey, as it looks. There governments want to install themselves, which are not ordered on time. Here I want a European lighthouse, a European republic, which is a world-wide one, as it should be in a democracy. Power goes from the people to rule on time. If you don't do your job well, you'll be chosen. That also means that we do not need a European Council, where 28 Heads of Government are sitting, who only make small-scale and have their national elections in mind, but we need a European Parliament directly elected by the people of the Republic, and of course we also need a Senate representing the regions as the second Chamber, and then a European government of that Republic. That's supposed to be the future. I am absolutely clear that it is not the 28 current EU countries that will set the stage for a European Republic. It is equally clear that in the next few years we will be going through a very rough phase of escalations and crises on this continent. That's just the beginning. Against the background of these crises, which are still waiting for us here – in my view, the euro area will not be sustainable today, the euro will be sustainable, but not on this area as it is today – which will send huge shock waves through this continent, we should have a clear vision that also conveys radiance, and that is for me the European Republic. I think we should be able to help free people here, too. Why? – Because, of course, it should be a decentralised European Republic; because it should be a parliamentary republic where the people have the power. I believe that the Greens can go here because this Republic should have a sustainable policy centre – it should be a lighthouse for the entire planet. I believe that the Social Democrats should go along and be able, Federal Chancellor, because it is also the European Way of Life. This has something to do with our welfare states to deal with the social state. After 54 years of debt policy in Austria, however, we are also in the duty to make our social systems future-fit, single-fit and no longer build on debt. I also believe that the People's Party should be able to help because Europe was once in your heart, even if you lost it on the road. That's why I think: Let us build on this vision – a European Republic as a lighthouse on this planet and as a destination for our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6562	Mr Bundeskanzler Mag. Core. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6583	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Oh, my God! Dear and cherished High House! Mr Strolz has now raised a number of very legitimate questions from the point of view of detail and, in some cases, has also raised very personal comments. So I don't quite buy you your participation in the state of SPÖ members, but let's put it aside. If you look at this whole process at CETA again, then, I think, it is indeed very useful to think again in principle about what it was all about and what lessons can be learned from it. From my point of view, one first has to hold – what I have always held – that, as an Austrian economy, of course, we have benefited from free trade. What we have experienced at CETA is, if we want to, the continuation of a policy which has been the basis of Austria's economic development in recent years, with other means. Only: I think that the very great euphoria in these trade agreements is quite honest, but that it has been a bit overlaid and I think it is a bad example, for the following reason: [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Government agreements!]] We have experienced that we have concluded trade agreements in Europe and also in Austria for 40 years. Undoubtedly, these trade agreements have contributed to increasing prosperity, as our industry and our economy have been given new markets, new sales opportunities – that was undoubtedly positive – and consumers have received significantly lower prices through the reduction of customs duties. In other words: All who were involved have essentially benefited from the matter. The second development we also need to take note of is that globalisation, which is one of the driving forces on all of these issues that we are discussing, has certainly been a prosperous project, when we think about Asian economies, for example. Today, however, we are experiencing two breaks on these issues. The first is that we are no longer talking about normal trade agreements, as we have now concluded them for 40 years, but about new types of trade agreements, as it is so striking, which are, in reality, no longer talking about market access, tariff reductions, but where, suddenly, long chapters are about the regulation of general interest and about future standardisation. There are also questions as to whether the precautionary principle or the post-care principle should be used to protect consumers. On the spot there is a massive problem, because what has not happened in these processes – the CETA mandate has been running for five or six years – is: It was not explained what the process is about. I personally believe that, in principle, one cannot and should not do policy by massively changing the game and then simply moving on to the agenda. That is, if you want to, the problem with this CETA agreement and has produced the deep distrust which is finally so widespread. My access to this whole story – if you let Revue happen again, how the processes were – was as follows: At the beginning of June, this agreement was finally negotiated and translated into all European languages. From this point on, we have experienced an intensive discussion in Austria: In contrast, 400 municipalities have spoken out, the National Council has dealt intensively with the question of NGOs dealing with civil society, in various ways also the trade unions. On the other hand, the situation was that we had in the European Council a proposal which, based on the views of the Legal Service, provided for the European Commission to conclude this trade agreement on its own. As you will say, this would in itself have been a positive development: Based on the Lisbon Treaties of 2007, this would have been a legal view that could at least be discussed. At the time, we had a lot of reservations about it. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... has already happened!]] We or I – if I may use this as an Austrian representative at the European Council – have said there: I think this is a very wrong and very bad decision. If you continue to ignore the concerns that exist, you may be able to do so, but the consequent damage you produce with it – in the sense that you lose the understanding of the people – will be significant. So the Austrian position was to say: No, we want this to be presented to Parliament. This position has been taken by the House to a large extent, which the Vice-Cancellor has carried, for which we have jointly advertised in the various European bodies. That was, I think, good and right and – even in retrospect – no wrong decision. The agreement would certainly not have been the right way. Then it was about making clear again about the summer: If we already present this to the national parliaments, significant and serious parts will actually be submitted to the Austrian Parliament and to the 27 other EU member parliaments for the vote. This was important, because I think it would have been a big mistake if we had given Parliament lightweight materials, which would probably have been of a lower political impact, and therefore, in fact, had chosen a policy with the motto: Tastes!, could have described. This has resulted by agreeing that the commercial courts can only enter into force if the national ratification, i.e. the decision-making here in the House, has taken place. I think this is a very important step forward, because CETA's problems arise through legislation, which is decided in the negotiations between the Commission and the Canadian Government members, and ultimately also through the execution of this right in the form of a Court of Justice. I say again: Because of tariff cuts and market access, all this is not problematic, but it will be very difficult when it comes to our electricity supply, water supply, gas supply and so on, where there is sudden intervention instruments, to intervene in decisions that should actually be reserved for you here in this House, in the sense that you were intended by the Austrian people for this task. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] We then held another intense discussion and said: In this trade agreement, we are concerned that we do not say in principle that we do not want to hear all of this – that would have been absurd after five or six years of negotiations – but we have said that there are problems to worry about: the intervention in general care, the fact that regulation and standardisation may happen across the heads of the Austrian Parliament, the question of how we deal with the precautionary principle, the question of how the courts are designed. That is exactly what was at the heart of the SPÖ member survey together with the TTIP agreement. Five questions were formulated. If you look at this carefully, read: We can discuss the sophistication of these questions – good point, as we have learned something, I admit – but in the end, things that we have said there have been implemented by the action we have put in addition. First of all, this has happened in the sense that the ratification of the courts will only follow here in the House. Until then, everything concerning the courts is not yet valid, and we will be given the opportunity to discuss the problematic points at the courts intensively. That's what we're going to do as a government. This is a question of transparency, of the statute, of remuneration of judges, of the independence of judges and similar points. We have also reached and discussed this additional declaration with clarifications, which have ultimately been the basis for the Wallonian agreement, and we have agreed that the provisional application of the Agreement must also be terminated. As a result of the decision of the Karlsruhe Court of Justice in Germany, we have also agreed that we have said that we want to bind the decisions concerning further standardisation of the Joint Committee to parliamentaryly legitimated processes. That's what we've tried to achieve, and that's well covered from my point of view. That means: If we take the summa summarum, we have the situation at CETA that our economy and our happiness and well-being certainly do not depend on this agreement. We know from the best studies she has presented to the European Commission – there are three or four of them – that in the best case the entire agreement brings €6 more income per anno, so that is nothing that dramatically changes the game in any form. There are studies that say it doesn't matter at all, there are others that are significantly more critical. In view of the material issue, I now have my opinion: We need to take a very close look at what these things are. My plea is a little different from what you've met. I do not now draw this consequence from these problematic developments which have probably weakened Europe in some way on the international stage, the discussions that have taken place there. My conclusion is rather another, namely, that if we make such a policy change, we are all called together to explain it much better. This is a task which the EU Commission has, but which, above all, the national governments have. I admit that this discussion process we had there can be deepened. But then it is also a matter of rethinking in principle what kind of trade policy we really want. We have discussed the trade policy chapter intensively at the last Council, and it is a remarkable day on which we are discussing it today. But the point is: At CETA, we have come to know that the best and greatest standards in the field of environment, labour law, consumer protection and so on must be applied. We, including the Canadian Prime Minister, were proud that this is such a progressive agreement. CETA we discussed at a meeting, and at the same meeting we discussed the question of customs duties on steel imports from China. We know exactly what we have lost 40 000 steel workers in Europe alone in this year. We know there was a price drop of up to 50 percent. We know that in flat steel, for example, Europe has 22 percent inches, the Americans 260 percent. That's much more aggressive, and you have to say, it all happened before Trump. I have to say that honestly – I mention this because I think we have a real problem with the seriousness in the context – that we cannot accept the good and the good at CETA, but accept with Chinese steel imports that steel is produced on conditions that do not meet our environmental standards, social standards and working standards. That is what I mean when I say that we need to discuss the European Union's trade policy more in principle, with greater seriousness, and set the priorities correctly, because if we are to be European decision-makers, then, I think, we need a continuous response and we must not always try to pursue small-scale interest policies. This happened at CETA or there – that was my impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6643	Next is Mr. Klubobmann Mag. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his The speaking time is limited to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6667	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate today is about CETA, but behind this CETA discussion is the basic question: How is it supposed to be trade policy, how is it to be economic policy, how is it supposed to go on in Europe in itself? Especially today, on the day of the outcome of the U.S. presidential election, it is only necessary, in the light of the U.S. election, to carry out this issue of European location determination. By the way, in my opinion, the US result is to be recognized, there is nothing to shake. It is also to be congratulated, but it is by no means a cause for joy, but also not for panic. I think what Europe needs now is a cool head that must be kept and must also analyse: What are the political fields in which Europe wants to define its positions? One of these is certainly the security situation, because we are living in a world where global conflicts in more and more decentralised conflicts are becoming acute, so that they also become a global problem, as they ultimately also have a global impact on terror and refugee flows. Europe needs its own opinion – its own opinion, not several foreign policy opinions – as well as one or more reliable partners in the world. The US is certainly important in this context to be a reliable partner. If this will be the case with Donald Trump, many have their doubts if I only follow the Iran Agreement, the nuclear agreement on the Iran is thinking about what Donald Trump said in the American election campaign. What I believe, however, is that Europe must be self-confident on all these issues, namely self-confidence for its values, which are ultimately the founding history of Europe. This is not only peace and freedom, it is not only democracy and rule of law, it is ultimately – or above all – the European social model: an economic model that combines performance, social security and environmental sustainability. For this to happen, as a Europe in the world, in trade agreements and in bilateral treaties, we must intervene offensively. I have the feeling that Europe will always be over and over again about individuals – for example, Commissioner Malmström, in my opinion, is such a negative case – that other tendencies in liberalisation, deregulation and the setting-up of standard approaches in other parts of the world are lagging behind. I think the opposite is right. Europe has every reason, of the population, of economic power, of innovation and of its history, to act and to say self-confidently: The social standards, the environmental standards, the labour law standards, all that we have in Europe has made us so strong and therefore we will not go down, but, quite the contrary, we will see that it is also becoming the standard in the world. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This was ultimately the core of the CETA debate, which was also precisely what it was all about. The second question that Klubobmann Strolz rightly raised is: Does Europe also have the decision-making structures that fit and which also give us the results we want? That's where we know the answer: No, no, no, The question is not: Does Canada fit Europe? The question is: Does current Polish internal policy fit into Europe, for example, with regard to the question of abortion and women's rights? There are always such questions. Does British tax policy fit into Europe? Does it fit in with Europe that Apple will receive a tax bonus in Ireland? – No, that also doesn’t fit Europe! In other words, Europe must also consider how these conflicts of interest that exist within Europe can finally be resolved reasonably. [[Abg. Lugar: What about Turkey?]] I also believe that these difficult decision-making structures with 28 Heads of Government or 28 Ministers and a European Commission and a European Parliament must be resolved, because the only successful decision-making model is that of classical parliamentary democracy. That is why I am always a friend of strengthening the European Parliament and its decision-making powers.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6712	Next, Mrs. Dr. tiny has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6734	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I congratulate you, we did it! We Europeans have actually managed that the rest of the world cannot take us seriously as partners, nor must anyone fear the European Union. This fantastic achievement, which the barrel has brought about, ultimately succeeded us with a trade agreement with a country very similar to us in standards, values and culture, namely Canada. To stay in Shakespeare mode of the last session: ‘Much Ado About Nothing’. But: This piece is a comedy, and the evildoer is known to have been arrested at the end. But who is in our tragedy of the evildoers? Is it the Wallonias who, for moral reasons, cannot officially agree to CETA in their economically unsuccessful country, although the only one who works in them economically is the arms industry? – They are likely, but not just. In my opinion, the situation in Austria and the situation in this Parliament, where fears startled, were also appalling in this whole CETA discussion, and some untruths were reported. I would like to take an example here because I was personally referred to by Mr Steinbichler. [[an image on which a farm, the letter “Ways of US Competition closed” and “TTIP” can be seen in a red circle, holding in height]] At the last meeting, he said: Mrs. Colleague, this is a business of yours, a business of 56 employees from your district for which you are responsible! Firstly, I would like to say that it is not a business of mine, nor is it one of the businesses of my family. Secondly, it is a farm and not a commercial holding with 56 employees, and it would be very important for a farm. Thanks to digitalization, the truth has come to light relatively quickly. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The fact is, this operation does not exist, it is a drawing of Greenpeace, it is not a photo. For those who sit behind, you may also see it in Vöcklabruck the cows are not on the field, but on the pasture or in the stable. [[Again keeping the image in height]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Steinbichler, you can read this in your speech. – So much for the material discussion in this House. It is clear that CETA is only the cause of displeasure, the causes are deeper and the arsons are sitting in all the countries of Europe. These are the ones who separate before the It's binding to say, it's those who light and watch instead of grab and hold together, and it's those who need populism, because they don't have European self-confidence and, in principle, they're just scared. Brexit and CETA show a deep crisis of confidence in the European Union. Unfortunately, the European Union is no longer perceived as a welfare and peace project, but as a sum of fears, crises and nationalism. The European Union is, however, alternatives to the global concert. However, a firm, torn-off Union, which cannot solve the challenges of the future from unemployment to migration via climate change, is also a weak Union. We now need a start-up process, namely a precise reorganisation of competences with more subsidiarity, but not towards more nationalism, but towards a new, intelligent European cooperation. Europe has much to offer whether the values are, whether the culture is, whether the economy is, whether the technology is. We need a strong Europe to be heard in the world and to secure our cooperation opportunities. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The youth of Europe – and we have seen this in all the surveys – is behind the European idea. I can't repeat it often enough: We can also manage to shape the European Union in such a way as to focus on the major areas of the subject, to reduce detail infatuation, to reduce overregulation, to guarantee ever-increasing peace and to integrate itself into the hearts of European citizens. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6813	Next, Mr. Dr. Nicer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6834	Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! My dear colleague, tiny! I do not know if one can talk into the hearts of the Europeans by calling criticism of agreements such as CETA a disinformation, lies, half-truths and the like. These are simply other opinions, these are views which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has also expressed gratefully at least this time, which are not only legitimate but, in fact, intelligible. Now you can say: No matter what, the objections to CETA do not outweigh the principles of the global world order and the principles that Europe must be a block must speak with one voice! What is being said does not matter, it does not matter whether we are affected by it, whether it hurts us or not, mainly because Europe speaks with one voice! – This is what we hear from the Commission, from the European Nomenklatura and from the EU propaganda machine. But this may be the reason – and this has been pointed out by my colleague, Mr Minzig – that there is no European euphoria, but that there is widespread European creativity that this Europe has not spoken into the hearts of the people, propagated, flattered, or played music – or whatever – that could be. We should also do more than just think about it, as we should look at things, because this Europe, as we have today, is not a success story. When I talk about Europe, I falsely mean the European Union, as many of those who promote the EU. Europe itself has been a success story since there was Europe. However, it is not the European Union. It was part of it, it was, as long as we still had a European currency area, a European currency snake. These were useful mechanisms, adapted to the diversity of the European peoples and their economies, which have worked and have led to an increase in prosperity. However, once we have come to what Mr Strolz wants to do, namely to move towards the European Republic and to introduce a single currency for ideological reasons, no matter how the state of the economies is, how the social systems differ, how the performance of these systems differ, we have been driving towards the wall like the Eurozone. The eurozone was a huge failure, because the first major crisis that came in 2008 has shown that this system is not working in the back and front, that the benefit that has still existed in the currency queue, so that the currencies can be corrected so that they can be devalued so that they can be repositioned so that they can be restored to their competitiveness. We have then found replacement crutches such as these stability mechanisms, which were discussed in great detail two, three, four years ago, but which have been forgotten today. There are huge debt and liability mountains waiting behind us to burst. What we have not found, however, is a solution to the structural problems of countries such as Portugal and Greece, which are as bad as five years ago. Whoever denies all this, who is all this as a mess-making, as lies, half-truths, anti-European, will do everything he can to make people skeptical of the European Union. Who puts the mistakes on the table and says: There has been a wrong action, there has been a huge damage, there is a lot to be corrected and there are centralizations to reverse!, he will rather find people who are discussing a future for the European Union – whether in youth or outside of youth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Strolz, if you always say: The right goes from the people, then you also propagate a policy in this direction. Do not do everything, at least in the political propaganda, so that the people no longer have rights! If you want to pay tribute to the peoples and a European central government, including Parliament, the Senate, the House of Deputies and what you want to do about it all, then you will not do anything but punish the peoples. [[Abg. Stroll: Decentralizedly I said!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Decentral!]] - What are you doing? In this European Central State you want, which you call European Republic, this European Republic, which you are talking about, the Dutch, Luxembourg, Belgian, Danish and so on will thank you, because I do not know what is happening to these countries in the European Republic. But let's leave this aside! Austria has a good 2% of the voting rights in this European Republic you dream of and think about. [[Abg. Stroll: Then let's make it smaller!]] And then the right goes from the people? – I wish you a lot of pleasure! I would like to see a realistic discussion on this subject. Whoever speaks of the people and their rights must also protect these rights and cannot allow them to enter into a huge bureaucratic monster in which the peoples have no self-determination, no rights and no more significant right of co-determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6912	Next word to speak, Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e6936	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, In contrast to my previous speaker, I think it is highly relevant that the European Union can move towards more common and more common words, namely one voice. The current occasion is, in any case, also Turkey's question. I strongly miss the fact that there is no stronger and more open statement from the European Union. In such matters, it is highly relevant for the 27 or 28 Member States to come together on a common approach and on consequences. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And this is actually my criticism or our criticism that the state of the European Union, as regards the common views, the joint actions, the common practices, is simply not satisfactory. And it is precisely the individual policies of the Member States. Why is it not possible to find clear words on human rights and fundamental rights violations in Turkey, also consequences in the sense that accession negotiations are now formally being put on hold and also to stop the funds that are intended to approach the European Union. [[Abg. Kogler: Shame money!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Let's make economic sanctions!]] I would like this to be a common European policy. And I would also like to see the Austrian Federal Government bring it there in the next few weeks very massively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, Mr Strolz, the achievements of history, the references to bloody history and also the warning of a threatening relapse are absolutely correct and important. That is absolutely right. In many countries, right-wing populists are on the verge of speaking exactly this text, which says: We do not need a central government, we do not need a common procedure, that is a right of the peoples! – The background is precisely the position of interest that the European Union should be broken down as a Union, or that it should be agreed at, so to speak, favourable times – like, your colleague Marine Le Pen in France – to start withdrawals and then, in fact, to impose serious wrong decisions with the population, as happened in the United Kingdom. [[Abg. New builder:... also dead!]] These are actually the dangers we should be talking about in Europe. We believe that, in order to address these international and global crises, there is at least a need for more at European level, but only this reference and these needs are not sufficient. It must already be a policy that provides concrete, tangible services to citizens who actually improve their daily lives. That is why we are already in trade policy. If, over the last six years, the discussion on these trade agreements has been considered very critical and has accompanied them very critically, then one must ask one question: When is the right time or when can citizens even criticise false trade policy? When can people demonstrate with a body, whatever it may be? During the TTIP and CETA negotiations, we have heard very often: The result is not yet available, wait until all of this is done! – We have always said very clearly where our criticisms lie. At the conclusion of the negotiations, the other argument was: Now it's finished, now it's too late, now you can't stop the whole thing! – So when is Michel Reimon actually allowed to protest and criticize at a demonstration – in whichever way – Mr. Strolz? When is the right time? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: It's all right!]] - It's all right! So I would ask to take that back and simply let us have our demonstration rights at any time. But let us discuss the European Commission's economic and trade policy! There is indeed a kind of reflection phase needed to discuss a reorientation. I see precisely these deregulation agreements, which have been in different versions since 1999/2000. Who can still remember MAI, all these deregulation attempts, which were mainly related to the non-profit services, the services and our community services? And there is something in the background prepared again, the so-called TiSA. Here too, what we have massively criticized at the Austrian Federal Government in recent years is happening: It is always given the mandate, it is always said Yes, then there may be a small protocol note. You have now also done it, Mr. Federal Chancellor, but Werner Faymann has always done so. That was ineffective. The stop button must clearly be pressed if you do not agree with certain developments. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The incredible thing about CETA is the following – that surprised me so much at this stage: There was an extension of the mandate. Originally, the arbitral jurisdiction was not at all in the context of this negotiating mandate with Canada. There was an extension of the mandate two years ago, with the consent of Austria. So we could have saved some of the unsavory discussions and also the shattered European policy porcelain if we had dealt with these mandates more transparently and openly. This is what we now wish for from you, Mr Bundeskanzler Kern, on the question of TiSA and on the question of TTIP. The Commission continues to use full gas to complete a so-called first phase of all the negotiating chapters, and from an Austrian point of view, a small Protocol comment has actually been given green light. It is precisely this misguided population that leads to such unsatisfying situations. And everything will not be easier – I say this at the end of the day – with an open-minded American president. For me, it is shocking that someone who has de facto been so devalued against minorities and so sexist against women will soon actually exercise this office. It will require very, very much effort from its side to make it acceptable to others in any form.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7042	The next speaker to speak is the Member of the European Parliament Dr. Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7064	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! I'd like to forward something to you today: With the exception of the FPÖ, which calls for Austria's withdrawal from the EU and cannot remember it only during election periods, we are all here for a strong Austria in a strong European Union. [[Abg. Schimanek: Not at all!]] [[Abg. New builder: Stop lying! Stop lying!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hauser and Mr Hübner]] [[Call at the FPÖ:... pigry is that!]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] We are also here in line with the overwhelming majority of the population. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Schimanek:... Lies!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And after the election in the USA tonight, it is also clear that we as the European Union must assume more global responsibility. [[Abg. New builder: Shame!]] [[Call the FPÖ:... for the High House! It's a community!]] For this reason, our common objective can only be improved and thereby strengthened...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7203	I didn't understand that acoustically. I'm organizing an information about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7218	I think we can see about the reports from the right camp. I would like to stress that for the reason I have just mentioned, our common objective can only be an improvement and thus a strengthening of the European Union. Austria should therefore not be in the group of those who plunge into or drive the European Union into a crisis. It is, as it is, Europe is in a crisis, a crisis of lack of political leadership. This has led us very clearly in the last few weeks to ring around CETA. And if the Member States are not even able to find a common position on this fundamental European issue, namely trade policy, without accident, that is a sign to me of a very deep crisis. The CETA negotiating mandate was issued in 2009 by all Member States, i.e. 27 Member States at the time. [[Abg. Kogler: Parliament has not been asked here! It's all over Parliament!]] And such a mandate, contrary to public opinion, is not just a short power to the Commission – it does not give it a free hand in the design – no, it is in the case of CETA a at least 19-page document giving detailed instructions on the scope of the negotiations for the individual areas and also on the exceptions. This includes investment protection. But if a serious government puts its signature under such a mandate, I assume that it is also aware of the consequences. And a serious partner will not say to the population years later: They in Brussels do what they want again! – Good and serious policy means depressing the population with reasonable arguments, but often unfounded concerns and not going to the knees in front of the boulevard. However, if an agreement such as this in 42 national and regional parliaments, all equipped with veto law, is to be voted on, it is clear that there will be an internal political reason to block this. And that is exactly what we saw in Wallonia, because there was indeed no reference to CETA at all, but there were domestic political reasons. This will lead to a political downturn, which is very appropriate to the forces that are driving forward the destruction of the European Union. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with democracy. As a liberal politician, I support the principle that democracy must be organized. It has a good reason why a representation system is designed at all levels of politics. That is also true in Austria. There will be no one here to feel undemocratic, unless any law that is adopted here in the National Council must subsequently be approved by all the communities. So why are we talking at EU level about the erodement of democracy? It is also clear that the world will not stop moving forward just because we are making internal policy at the expense of European policy. Trade agreements will continue to be concluded in the future – with us or without us! Free trade agreements make sense, and CETA makes sense. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Which one?- Oh, my God!]] It is a good agreement in which we were able to establish our high standards by the economic and political weight that we have together with Canada. We could still do that! However, this will no longer be the case in the future if we ourselves become unable to act in this core competence of the EU. In my opinion, what we need most is politicians who are no longer hiding behind the EU, politicians who do not put their party interests on the common interests of Europe, and politicians who have a serious interest in the success of the European project and who play an active role there. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] I think it is clear to all of us that this is exactly what is necessary, and I hope we will see a lot more of it here in the future. – Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7277	Next speaker is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7299	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What Europe needs is enthusiasm, trust – only then can Europe work can the European Union work. Ladies and gentlemen, you all will have noticed, neither enthusiasm is felt, nor confidence is there. Especially after the last crises, after the migration crisis, in which we are still in the middle of it, after the financial crisis in which every citizen feels, there is no solution competence, there is only one talk and negotiation for hours and in the end nothing comes out has been a huge loss of trust. My dear colleague, Mlinar, I think arrogance is the wrong answer. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Right!]] It is the wrong answer when citizens oppose this system. We have exactly these movements in all countries, we see that when we open our eyes. Brexit was perhaps only the beginning if we continue to do so and – so according to the motto: We know above what to do! – look at the citizens so arrogantly. Ladies and gentlemen! There's only one way: We must renegotiate Europe. We need to redefine the tasks that the European Union should have, and we also need to talk about funding. Tasks and funding – this has to be decided at the lower level, not down from above. The citizen must feel involved. [[Abg. Stroll: Not only the feeling that he must be involved!]] There must be a new division of tasks. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The elections against the establishment – Brexit, USA – clearly show this. If we do not act now, we also bear responsibility that the existing system will no longer have a future. Mr Strolz! We need a European Republic? – I’m completely different. What we need is strong father countries, so that as many tasks as possible can be done at the base and really only those tasks that cannot be solved in the countries fall into EU competence, and above all we need the involvement of citizens and the retention of citizens. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, strong Republic! Agreed!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Exactly! That's the point!]] [[Abg. Shout: Yes, wonderful! That's exactly my model!]] The current Commission, which has not been elected by anyone, and which, in my view, is not occupied with those people to whom the citizen can have confidence, is still to be strengthened, as European government, before that I really advise. [[Abg. Stroll:... the Commission?]] We need the European Union as a peace project, as a union of strong fatherlands. To CETA, ladies and gentlemen. – Of course, everyone here will be in this room for free trade, which has strengthened prosperity over the last decades, but – and here I am at Mr. Federal Chancellor’s core – globalisation must be considered, globalisation must take place at an eye, because it cannot be produced on one side, for example, without compliance with any environmental standards. There are cities in India where 25 percent of children are born with Down Syndrome, where there are many stillbirths, where a large number of malformations can be shown, and exactly there is the pharmaceutical industry, exactly there is the chemical industry, exactly there is produced without fulfilling any environmental standards. These are the products we probably buy around 89 cents in one of the supermarkets. That is the wrong way, we do not want this globalisation! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is preferable for us to be produced on a high standard in Austria. This costs a little more money, but it means less unemployment and a lower tax rate. This would be the possibility of a re-industrialisation in order to offer jobs to their own people. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Walloons have been shocked to the end, and that is with good law: on the one hand, they have negotiated an exit clause – I would also wish for us that, if we see that CETA is not the solution for us, we can get out of any marriage, no one can explain to me that it should not be possible – on the other hand, protection mechanisms for agriculture have been created. [[Abg. Lugar: You can even get out of the coalition!]] I'd like to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7448	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7469	Mr President. High house! Austria simply has much to lose – Austria has the highest standards in Europe, many countries are looking at how we have done this – and therefore it is obvious that if you are in favour of a free trade agreement, you are fighting for the standards to be maintained. However, the criticism, which has been expressed many times, is justified in so far as it has naturally caused distrust in the population, as it has happened especially with TTIP, but also with CETA. You have to stress that over and over again. I think that, just as the Federal Chancellor tried to “act” – it is really crucial for Austria to be able to present it in the end as something worthy, that it is shown that at the end one has the goal of increasing prosperity, ensuring employment, and that this has been achieved. Klubobmann Strolz should have given his speech already in the American Congress – Senate, House of Deputies – because the Republicans are now equipped with the absolute majority. The new President is now seeking to introduce fines for companies that leave America and thus endanger the stock of jobs. He's against free trade agreements. He just said on television on his speech on the occasion of his victory that he wanted to expand the infrastructure. Suddenly, he realizes that the bridges are no longer working, nor are the streets and hospitals, nothing at all, and at the same time he wants to reduce taxes, he wants to reduce taxes for the super-rich. - How's that going? The new President will be chased in four years. I am actually sitting here quite relaxed, because if this goes on the way he presents it all, then he will be chased away. I can say that, I'm not the head of government, I don't have to meet him, I can say that. [[general hustle and bustle]] [[Abg. Kogler: We will find a agenda item where that fits!]] It is true, of course, that there has to be a willingness to talk in a sense. Among the real winners – economically – will probably be China, with the Chinese steel industry, with the processing of its energy resources, with its global activities. The Americans are likely to be more isolated now, so Trump’s words at least suggest. What he's up to with Europe, he'll say to Tusk and Juncker once they meet, and as I hear in the announcement, they'll do it. So we have to take this changed geopolitical situation into account in our policy. Perhaps Moscow is, Putin is a winner, I can't say that so well. He appreciates him, he has often said, and that is impressive for American conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] It is also impressive the philosophy of life of Mr Trump. He says you have to distinguish: There are losers, there are winners, and the winners must be killers! – This is an interesting philosophy of life that is really good for people who have fears that also want a social security that wants justice that wants health care. He will throw out these 17 million or 20 million people who have been caught by ObamaCare from the health insurance system. I can only say one thing: Here in Europe, especially we Austrians with our high and highest standards, we should stand by the fact that what has now happened in America does not lead to a global development. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It cannot be said that – as individuals from Germany did in the comments on television –: Well, what is now in America, this is also coming to Germany!, that the white flag is raised immediately, that you capitulate immediately and say, from now on you will also be led such elections in which you vilify each other. [[Abg. Lugar: That has always been the case!]] I haven't been a special fan of Hillary Clinton either, I have to say, but it would have been – unfortunately I didn't have the right to vote, maybe the election would have been different if there had been a little more electorate outside of America – at least because of its basic bodies, which simply speak for a decent life, for human rights, at least the better decision. I have to say honestly, the way in which this election campaign has been conducted, these racist statements, these sexist statements that Trump made, these values that he represents – and when he is elected a hundred times! – These are not our values. I would like to make that very clear. If America wants to be a leader politically, morally, then it must be removed from these values that Trump has expressed. We here in Europe have to tick differently, and in this sense I am in favour of a strong Europe, of a self-confidence Europe, of a Europe that really sets standards. [[Abg. Lugar: Aha, just in that sense! That's it!]] No matter what institutional framework this should take place, we all have to act together, we must not be differentiated, because we have something to defend. I believe that for this basic consensus we have in Austria, for this basic consensus for which we have to fight in Europe, we will be critical of the Poles, we will have to deal critically with Hungary. This is no question at all – with the governments, I am now saying that it is not the whole population that thinks so – it is our task to be critical, to be skeptical of a renewal of the European Union, not to accept everything and really to make very close contact with the people, to involve them, especially the middle classes that fear a descent. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I think with this consciousness we will be able to resist, and I plead for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7559	Now the member of the European Parliament is Mag. Karas on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7580	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to link up where Pepi Cap stopped. The outcome of the election in America makes the United States of America a protectionist, incalculable and no reliable partner in the design of globalisation. We are on the test, and who loses himself at a time when the global dependence on one another is growing, when globalisation takes place, who loses. We Europeans, we members of the European Union must now become a stability anchor in the world. We must become a defender of international, European law and the values and design of globalisation, we must not be torn between Russia and America, between Putins and Trump. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scherak]] Now is a new hour of the European Union's birth! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hable.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have to stop! In the title of this current European hour, it is said to draw lessons, to think of the future, not just to justify the past. If we learn the lessons, then the European Union must become more effective as a Community. This means common foreign, security and defence policy, common refugee and migration policy, common development aid policy. This not only means internal integration policy, but also a definition of the role of the European Union outside our borders. Yes, that is, the European Union needs to get better, that is, the Council needs to be more transparent. The double majority must be the voting principle within the European Union and not the unanimity, so that the tail does not ride with the dog and does not determine the majority of the nationalists and opponents. Yes, the European Union needs to be more efficient. That is to say, no decision without the consent of the European Parliament! And the decisions must fall where competence and responsibility lie, so that people know who is responsible and who can therefore also be held accountable. The pingpong game we are currently experiencing, that one no longer knows who is responsible, but everyone only knows who is guilty does not lead to more transparency, more clarity and more accountability. We must make the European Union a speaker of the continent in the world, and we must make a contribution to that, because we are part of this community. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] – I am quite familiar with the question here: But that also means that we must take seriously the concerns and fears of the citizens, we must not leave people alone with their concerns and fears, we must go towards them in order to get the democratic majority, and we have not done so in the trade agreements CETA and TTIP in recent years. [[Abg. Honey: What does that mean?]] For seven years we have negotiated and not publicly informed and discussed. We have the conditions we have set and the results have not sufficiently communicated, but we have only begun the debate when the result is already on the table. If we take citizens seriously, we must assume our responsibility for solutions and not play with their concerns and fears. Parliaments must strengthen the responsibilities of democracy and Parliaments must be accountable for those who only work with the spirit democracy and who are in a position to hold back. That's why I'm staying with you. CETA is an important agreement in such a situation. CETA is also a stability anchor in transatlantic relations, at least in part. CETA creates clarity, eliminates uncertainty, is an opportunity for growth and employment and enforces our values and rules. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Which one?]] CETA is therefore a part of the design of globalisation instead of the scrapping that we experience everywhere. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Let us tell people that for sensitive agricultural products such as beef, sugar, wheat import quotas have been agreed! Let us tell them that the state's right of self-regulation, right to regulation, has been established! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Let us tell people that the protection of social, environmental and consumer regulations has been clearly enshrined and that there are no private but public arbitration courts! We have enforced ourselves, and therefore we should all, with all our doubts, communicate the regulation of globalisation on the ground of this agreement rather than constantly justifying us for the past. CETA is a good agreement and the right answer to the policy of the Trumps of our time!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7663	That was a long closing point. Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7689	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Let me start by saying that it is remarkable to me that a representative of the European Parliament comments to the President of the United States or the election in the United States in such a way that the US will become more protectionist, unpredictable and will not be a reliable partner in globalisation in the future. I have to tell you quite honestly: We, the European Union, are in constant negotiations with our partner USA on questions of globalisation et cetera, and I do not have a good feeling now because of this statement of entry by a prominent representative of the European Parliament. I believe that this is beyond the goal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, we have heard much about visions and many visions from Mr Strolz, and Mr Mlinar has once again accused us of being out of the European Union. I'm actually putting it right: That's not us – for the hundredth time! Even if you claim it a hundred times, it does not correspond to the truth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Visions have the advantage that they usually, when presented rhetorically well, listen well that they are not controllable at this time et cetera. I want to get back a little bit to the ground of reality. And that's where the question arises: What is the problem of the European Union's current design or what are we talking about at all? What's this about? – It is about competences and resource allocation. At present, the European Union has a budget of about €150 billion, which is being used by Member States; we are also net payers. There are things that are good that are reasonable, you have to look at that differently. There are structural programmes, many, many billions will be invested in the former Eastern European countries. In my view, this is a very reasonable initiative and makes sense. However, I think it makes less sense to invest 50 billion – estimated – in the entire conglomerate of agriculture. And it makes even less sense when, as one hears, 10 billion to 15 billion already go to the administration, in which – I say that consciously – tower to Babel in Brussels, which is just far away from the people and the population. What is it all about in politics? – In our opinion, it is about two very essential parameters: It's about trust and responsibility. On the one hand, it is a matter of trust, and we are seeing – and the facts confirm this – that the confidence of the people in the institutions and the actors of the European Union is very dwindling. Why is that so? Let's go through the thing! – I am convinced that it is not really a source of trust – and that has already been confirmed by the previous speakers in part, but the confession that we are planning to make this better in the future is not really satisfactory – that it is not a strengthening of confidence if we are to act as TTIP and CETA did. CETA has been secretly negotiated behind closed doors, so to speak. You can't expect confidence from the population if you negotiate something secretly and then the results according to the principle – by the way –: Fresh or dead!, presented. By the way, the national parliaments have nothing to say anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor took an initiative two months ago and presented himself as a defender, as Robin Hood of the interests of the employees, the workers, the environmental standards et cetera, by rightly addressing CETA's content very critical. I now ask you about the outcome, Mr Bun-Deskanzler. – Because: You went there anyway and signed the agreement! These are the results, these are the facts. One is words, and the other is acts and facts, and this does not necessarily help to strengthen confidence in the European Union and its players. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What has the European Union done in recent years? – It has brought about the complete misconception of the euro with everything that belongs to it. With the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism, against which the Freemans voted in 2012, institutions have formed, far away from any control, to make things of a very significant extent to each and every one of us. The ECB buys thousands of billions of bonds. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Kogler:... We are discussing ESM decision in Parliament!]] The ESM is a black box where we signed liability. All of this does not contribute to confidence, and in particular these actors are free of any responsibility. It's not going to be taken away as an election people, so to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7752	Final rate, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7767	The final sentence: The functioning democracy after our access is one where, as politicians, we are held responsible at regular intervals by municipal elections, country elections, national elections, and therefore more renationalisation of competences in this area is needed. This is our access to living and functioning democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7794	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7816	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! It is obvious that some are also dealing with the results of the presidential elections in the United States within the framework of the current hour of Europe. Yes, my God, you can't get around finding that the one who won there is certainly at least a strange type for the majority of European tastes. For many, he is probably disgusting, but at least hostile to women. What this has to mean is another question. We will not be able to bring all of this into this current European hour. That is why I would like to come back to the subject that has been prepared by NEOS in such a way that a real question is actually asked about the future of Europe, with regard to the difficulties that are being observed from the present and from the past. I can start a lot by talking about what a Republic of Europe should be when it comes to democratic foundations. This is not about the individual – as the FPÖ expresses itself – peoples, and that is only 2%. There is also a European population, and to that end one confesses itself or not, for that there is a consciousness or not. It will become important what is reasonable in the global context. It will then be differentiated where it is reasonable in the global context to have decisions at a higher level. That's the only question! But what happens there must be democratically legitimised, deeper, wider, stronger than now. Whether CETA is the best example for this – today we have a peaceful discourse – I dare to doubt. I'll take it from there. But I mean, it's only to think in this direction anyway. [[The red light on the speaker's coil begins to flash.]] – It can’t be that it already shines! Do you know where it has led to think only in this direction: Völkisch, Europa der Vaterländer und so on? Look You're looking at our Grandfather's generation! To millions they lie as sacrifices of war and soldiers, and as what do I know under the earth? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to set up the coordinate system properly. Now it is about where we need more and where we need less democratically legitimate competences. I tell you where we need much more: to combat tax fraud, to combat speculation, to deal with economic and monetary union, because the nation states alone cannot help! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There you will see where we are! We need more. But we need less elsewhere: The Krex of CETA, TTIP and TiSA, and as the agreements are all called, are not trade agreements for which the Lisbon Treaty has given the mandate. We shouldn't be upset. However, it is regulatory agreements and standards agreements. You can either want it or not, but you have to name it that way. These are in the trend of deregulation agreements. It's not like the world's going down tomorrow, but you have to see that. This must be wanted or not, and therefore this question must be asked and answered accordingly. - We don't want that from the Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely not for the European Commission to work by Parliament with a stupid mandate from national governments – even in Austria, if you always say: Six, seven years will be negotiated! – Yes, but by Parliament, and at the end of the day, it says: Eat! That's the situation. If the European Parliament has had so little participation in this matter, the national parliaments are still reinsurance. We're all elected here. That's how it is to be seen. The Lisbon Treaty has not given me any mandate at all to say that the Commission is now negotiating what has influence down to the smallest municipality, down to the smallest municipal council in matters of municipal service, in terms of public procurement. These are the relevant questions! I wonder if we must act across Europe in the area of how the municipal services are regulated, with Canada or the USA, from the Algarve to the Baltic. Do we need that? - I mean, no. We need this somewhere else, where it is against the big corporations. We've always had that here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question is not even whether it is against the companies. These are economic units that enforce their interests. It's about who sets the rules. It is not the large economic units that should do so, but the States and Europe and the Union, which are legitimate. It would be necessary to invent the Union if it did not exist, but it would have to be greatly improved. It should then, as a state formation – from me as a republic in this democratically legitimate form with all the things that the French Revolution has fought – lay down the rules, not the lobbyists. In this CETA Treaty and in the TTIP Treaty, you have created loud intellects for lobbyists. I say it again, including Mr Karas: That's what I'm In any case, a pleasant agreement with TTIP, but there are entrances inside that go completely in the wrong direction. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Now, let's go back to history, and let's have the European debate: Where is it important to act really European in the future?, where it makes sense – but not at CETA and TTIP! I really have to say this to everyone, including a number of Austrian journalists who have been commenting completely in the wrong direction lately. It's not about trade, it's about who's even where the Sovereign is.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7930	Next speaker: Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e7951	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Estimated citizens! “The lessons from CETA: Why Europe must become a republic.” – This is the theme of today’s current European hour, proposed by my Group, the NEOS. The first is the difficulties surrounding the adoption of the CETA Agreement. The other is the basic problem. We wanted to talk primarily about the basic problem, not about the symptom. That is why we have also invited you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to come to the current hour of Europe. That is why I have been surprised to note that you have referred primarily to CETA, that is to say, the symptom, but not to our real concern, which we have made on the subject of the hour of Europe, that is to say, the reality of Europe. The basic problem is not the difficulties surrounding CETA, these are the symptoms, but the basic problem is the fact that Europe has skills that it does not need, but skills that it does not have. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] That is what we wanted to do on the central issue of the discussion! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is a fundamental question, because we, the European Union, are facing a redundancie. Every one of these ways, no matter what we take, stands for change. The maintenance of the status quo is not possible. Europe will no longer be able to exist in today's form. In this form, a community with 28 EU countries which are essentially blocking each other, Europe is not reformable, it is not further developing. There are two possibilities, two ways: Either Europe will develop or Europe will break. Let me give you clear examples of how these two ways we stand: One is the way of renationalisation, the resurgence of the nation states, the other is the way we call it from the NEOS Republic of Europe. The example of security illustrates: Europe is on the one hand surrounded by Putin, on the other side by Trump, in the south by decaying states. One of them wants to tell us that the solution to our security situation is that the nation states are building walls around them, and then everything would be good, then we would be safe. The other variant is that we are building on a European foreign and defence policy and putting the problem at its root. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Second example: Economy, prosperity: The one way that's called a variant, we build walls all around, we shot off the world markets. The other way is to trade, we remain open to our jobs, to our prosperity towards the global markets. [[Abg. That's why sanctions against Russia?- Oh, my God!]] One of them says: If we build walls, we can maintain our prosperity! The others say: Our prosperity depends on staying open, being open! One is the way of fear, the other is the way of courage. The solutions of the past and solutions that shape the future are facing each other. It is facing stagnation and progress. That's the forwarding we're standing in front of. This is the way in which the citizens also stand, that is their choice, they can decide. It's perfectly clear who's on the way. To break it down to Austria: The FPÖ stands for renationalisation. FPÖ stands for the withdrawal from the European Union, even if you want to forget this time and again and if you want to forget your requests for election campaign tactics. [[Call the FPÖ:No!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We know that. [[Abg. Schimanek: Only when you repeat lies do they not become true!]] The other way is: We can only solve big problems together, which we can only solve in a European Republic! [[New call of the abg. Schimanek.]] NEOS stands in line with the FPÖ on this issue, which is quite clear. We choose courage instead of fear. We choose the future instead of the past. We choose progress instead of standstill. [[Abg. Schimanek: Inconceivable!]] We do not choose the renationalisation. We do not choose the resurrection of the nation states. We choose the common Europe. We call it the Republic of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8077	The Member of the European Parliament now speaks of Graswander-Hainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8099	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The proceedings concerning the CETA trade agreement clearly show that there are fundamental problems in European trade policy, but also in the political processes at Union level. In the last few weeks, there has been little public debate. On both sides the waves have gone up. What has angered me particularly over the last few weeks and months is the artificially built time pressure and the attempt to make CETA appear as an alternative in this form. When we talk about CETA, it is actually so that it is not just about content but about trade policy itself. CETA is a new generation agreement. A lot is new in CETA. It is important to look at that, because there are several trade agreements still outstanding – with Singapore, with Vietnam, with Japan and with the TiSA service agreement. This should be done this year. We need to draw lessons from the processes around CETA, we need to change something. After all, we European Members have little opportunity to intervene in the negotiation processes. Although we can adopt resolutions, that is quite nice, the Commission is not taking them very seriously. There are always open formal questions, and I think you should look at them carefully. In recent times, there have been heated discussions about competence: Is it a Union agreement or is it a mixed agreement? It would have been easy if one had waited for the ECJ's judgment on the agreement with Singapore, which is expected for the coming spring. There is also a problem with the compatibility of EU law with the new investor protection. We still do not know whether the mechanism, i.e. the Investment Court System, is really compatible with EU law. One of the most important points I would like to raise is the following: Why, then, does investor protection need between states with sophisticated legal systems? There is an agreement between America and Australia, where this investor protection is completely maintained. It just becomes quite clear: It takes a fresh start on European trade policy in process and content. I think it is important to strengthen the European Parliament and to involve national parliaments from the outset in these negotiations. This would mean taking everyone with you in the formulation of the negotiating mandate, so that you can take all the concerns with you, and so you can avoid many conflicts in advance. Further: Trade agreements should no longer be in the purely consent procedure. It would be a good thing to be able to offer binding resolutions to the Commission again and again during the negotiation process. The policy area should not need any more unanimity in the Union's purely competence in the Council. If we were to negotiate transparently and take everyone in the negotiating mandate at the beginning, it would be possible that we would no longer need unanimity in the Council. I see a big problem here: We've been talking about China today. It could be that China receives market economic status at the end of the year. Then we have no effective instruments to protect against these cheap products, these state-subsidized products from China, because there is currently a blockade or a standstill in the European Council on trade instruments. You can imagine who is affected by this: our European economy and jobs. All in all, I would like to sum up once again: It is quite clear that we must draw lessons from the processes around CETA. It is also clear that trade policy needs to be reformed. And that must happen immediately. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8163	Next speaker: Mr. Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8184	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate High House! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kogler: But don't say again that we fear 30 million Canadians! It's out today!]] Today, we are discussing CETA, we are discussing the EU, we are discussing the EU's ability to act, and that on a day when the world is likely to get a new basic provision if it is true that Mr Trump will actually be President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Things will probably change, and Europe will be well advised to work towards better cooperation and cohesion. Europe as a community of strong and less strong countries in strong partnership lives by the citizens' understanding of the project. What can we as politicians, as a professional politician, do to strengthen our understanding? – For example, we could also stand on the decisions we take together in democratic consensus. We could say, if, after a long negotiation, we reach an agreement that we meet together: Yes, I'm at the content! One could also say: Yes, we have decided together, and that is why this is also a joint project! I have here the supplementary decision which the European Council has now taken, where the Commission has brought together everything that has come to light on comments made by the individual Member States in order to make the project really clarifiable and acceptable. [[keeping a document up to date]] These are 38 points with statements that say that what is in the Treaty is really so precise. Austria is also found in a few lines in it. We are satisfied with the program. Poland is also mentioned. I want to read to you about it because these points have been agreed by all together and therefore also by Austria, and I hope that we will be together to do so. There it says: “The Republic of Poland” – and I could now replace Poland with Austria, because we have decided together – “is convinced that CETA will benefit from the removal of barriers to trade” – “and the reduction of trade costs will bring benefits to the widest groups of our society and to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Kogler: What is a barrier?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] CETA will contribute to improving the quality of life of Polish citizens, including the Austrians, while maintaining EU standards. The tension is that it reads: “the EU standards are true.” [[Abg. Kogler: Is a public tender in St. Pölten an obstacle?]] All those who have expressed their concerns about the standards here should finally read the Treaty and say: Okay, we've been unnecessarily puddled up for three years now, we've done our political business with it, but it's actually a good deal because there's what people in Austria need! Yes, it may only bring €6, but do you know what it can bring or waste? [[Abg. Kogler: You have decided for yourselves that no arbitration courts are in there! That's true today!]] – That our citizens still believe or do not believe something. We have negotiated something together, while Europe is not necessarily the public, well, I say: international observation is being abandoned and now a result that is in order. This result, which is all right, should be the basis for saying that we are together to help each other, and not because we are swirling around afterwards and saying: Well, now we have something, but it's not good again! – For God's sake, where is the security of people to come from? People expect security from the government. People expect security from the European government, they expect security from us. The opposition lives on the fact that people live in fear of ruining their hope; the government lives on giving hope and strengthening it. [[Abg. Kogler: Go, please!]] [[Call: Which]] And security only lives on the fact that we do and implement what we say, what we're talking about. What we signed has to be done. That's what people can expect from us. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes?! Then take a look at your ÖVP party program!]] Federal Chancellor! I have noted that Chinese steel is important to you, and I am interested in Austrian farmers. We have at least as big problems today as they may be in the steel industry. We already have the problems today, they arrived. We need quick answers! I have to say this, because people believe us something more – but they will more easily believe us something if the answers are given quickly and in the way that they realize that they are really being helped. Ladies and gentlemen, safety demands results. Results are results when they are carried together, and we expect this from the government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8315	The Member of the European Parliament, Reimon, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8336	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! CETA is an excellent opportunity to talk about European democracy, because it is a democratic issue and not only an economic policy issue, it is a comprehensive economic and trade agreement. You can reach agreement on the part of the trade relatively quickly – trade is nothing bad – the comprehensive economic part, that is the big problem! That's where we're worried! If this is taken as an occasion to talk about European democracy now about democracy, I am very surprised that this should be the occasion for the Wallonian Parliament to block. With regard to the Wallonian Parliament, it was clear from the outset that it had to vote in agreement, and it was clear from the outset that it was skeptical. It has been doing information events on CETA for six months, hearings, informing itself for six months: We will not agree, and European governments have ignored this and have believed that the Wallonia behaves as Austria does, and at the end of the day says: Well, as the only one, we can't be against it! We agree, although we do not want to! It was believed that this happened – and it didn't happen. And now we have a democratic problem?- Oh, my God! – I don't think so! In fact, we have the problem of passing over democracy and hearing it expanded. I am quite right, Mr Stolz: Moving skills to the European level is great. Let us make a capable European Parliament with the right of initiative, which is something we are spending, a European government from the Commission! - I'll give you the right thing. We only need to talk about two levels: One is the decision-making mechanism and the other is what they can decide on. There you are with your ideology – the ÖVP, partly the liberals – those who want to cut in the most. There is almost no area of policy that you do not want to take out of a democratic decision-making structure and that you want to completely rescind the market. The Parliament you want is a shadow Parliament. [[Abg. Stroll: Go!]] There is nothing left of democratic decision, if you always want to deregulate everything completely – and that is exactly what it is all about in CETA. There is no policy left. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They say the right must go from the people. As you do, justice goes out to the people. This is the result of CETA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] This is the consequence of these agreements, which is the result of this deregulation policy. And what happens then is that people wish for politics to be redesigned. And where do they go if they no longer believe in democracy? To the authoritarians, from Trump to FPÖ, the AfD and so on, because they offer at least that they still want to design. [[Abg. Lugar: I believed the Greens want to co-shape!]] I would like us to offer a democratic design that we offer capable parliaments so that we can offer political intervention in such a way that we can actually help. They make themselves and make fun of activists who wear Che Guevara T-shirts from Asia. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes?- Oh, my God!]] – They can no longer wear Che Guevara T-shirts from Austria. I went to a school in the 1980s with 1,200 students in the textile industry – they all don't have a job in this industry. There is no longer any textile industry in this dimension in Austria. They can't have a job anymore because it was erased. They now wear t-shirts from Asia, you're right! The problem is that these agreements work and that the price mechanism works. [[Abg. Stroll:... and the fear and all that with the AfD...?]] The T-shirt costs €4.90 and was produced by close-ups who are 16 years old and have no notice protection in the case of pregnancy. That's why the T-shirt costs €4.90. [[Abg. Stroll:... Populists...!]] We can decide whether we compete with them on precisely these conditions or whether we do not do so and whether we intervene democratically, democratically, intervene with politics and turn it back. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is exactly what you do not want, which is why you drive all those people who depend on this policy into the hands of the authoritarians. This is not what NEOS – you do not have the power – but it does exactly this ideology that has been trying to shape it this way for 30 years. That's the completely wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8447	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8468	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! I do not want to deal with this issue which the colleague has referred to before me, I would like to talk about what is more important today than ever – I have done this many times, you know my speeches on it... [[Abg. Walser:... debate!]] [[Calls:Why not?]] [[Further call-ins]] Dear men, you can let me talk! We need the United States of Europe and we need the Republic of Europe today more than ever, and, as I believe, today more than yesterday. That's something we really should talk about! I am horrified at the fact that hardly anyone has addressed this issue or has made serious arguments as to why it would be a bad idea – because we do not want to be a stranger. As a European Union and also as European citizens, we want to be able to decide our own fate. EU-USA free trade and how it could be designed in the future is probably now dead. However, this is not because Donald Trump has a lot of interest in environmental protection, standards or anything else, but because he wants to isolate America. It wants to isolate America, it wants to isolate other countries. With his trade policy and with his policy in general, he wants to go back to the past. And what are we doing as Europe? – We’re standing there completely dirty town and don’t know how to react! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You have no idea how to react!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] It is relatively clear what our instructions would be in the near future. We have a unique opportunity to take control of the reins in world politics and to shape the world in the way it would correspond to our European values of freedom, equality and sibling. This is a unique opportunity! In the final effect, Angela Merkel is now “leader of the free world”. [[Abg. Lugar: This is a dangerous threat!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] You have to let that break on your tongue! This is a unique opportunity for us as Europe to be aheady involved in the world, and for that we need young people too. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] By the way, 18 to 29-year-olds in the USA have elected 55 percent Hillary Clinton. They have also voted against Brexit in the UK, but the young people in Europe sometimes have few prospects. [[Abg. Lugar: Little experience!]] Their lack of generation-righteousness is what you see on the subject of youth unemployment in Europe again and again. And they also have a feeling of powerlessness, because Europe and the European institutions are not democratic – or not as democratic as they might be – and therefore it is understandable that Europe is perceived as foreign and as complex. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] But what's the chance? The opportunity that the whole world has is Europe's chance, because we young people know that we have more opportunities through a united Europe than through a separate Europe. [[Abg. Lugar: You believe this!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] - We know. 60 percent of the young Austrians see the EU as a good thing, 80 percent see themselves as EU citizens. – This is something wonderful and this is an opportunity we recognize because we have mobility in the labour market because we have mobility in the European education area. Guy Verhofstadt said today to the U.S. elections that this is a wake-up call for Europe to unite and take its own destiny into its own hands. – This is something we really need to take seriously, and I also hope for political answers from our federal government, as it stands for this idea of a more united Europe, a stronger Europe. Finally, on this general question, which is always asked: Have people actually voted the wrong way? Did any voters choose wrong? - Not at all! A person who is going to vote has always been right in principle, but he must also be able to live with the consequences. Even voters in Europe must be able to live with the consequences of elections, and we in politics cannot back and hope: Nothing will happen, that's why we're not doing anything at all now. We are no longer working on the Europe project. It's going to be okay because it's always been that way. People are certainly somehow reasonable and they already know what the benefits of Europe are!, and so on. We cannot rely on that anymore, because politics must prove that it has a right of existence. She must prove that she has visions that she has an idea where to go with Europe and that she is ready to form the world. That is why we need a Republic of Europe, and, Mr President, I would like to have an answer from you, whether you see it that way or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8609	This is what Mr Schmid has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8630	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! One of Austria's greatest political successes is known to be the ever-increasing neutrality; economic recovery and numerous economic agreements with the EFTA and EEC economic projects are to be addressed. The European Union should also be an economic Union, but unfortunately it has developed largely into a political, centralist Union. The core of the founding states was expanded by the inclusion of states of the former eastern block. If the aim is to convert the European Union from a state to a state, this will not be possible on its own due to considerably different starting positions. In addition to different interests, different educational and economic bases should also be addressed. In decades of political work and financial compensation, from an economic point of view, it was not possible to establish an economic balance between the Member States. As far as the unification of the Federal Republic of Germany alone is concerned, there is evidence that it has not yet been possible to achieve a level playing field in education, income relations and the like. How will this work in a Republic of Europe? The lessons from CETA should lead to a Republic of Europe – a wishful idea. The agreement on CETA will create considerably more disadvantages than benefits for Austria. In the recent past, the European Union has repeatedly demonstrated failure. The continuing wave of refugees, the blue-eyed welcome culture, the pact with Turkey, the non-security of the external borders, the Brexit or the But-Not-Brexit, the division of refugees and so on. In a certain amount of EU dependence on the United States, an economic embargo on Russia has been imposed and repeatedly extended – in return for economic failure. Massively affected is, among other things, domestic agriculture, beneficiaries are known to be the USA. Not to be disregarded is the labour market, which has been marked in the long term by a person who has not yet been there and who remains at a high level of unemployment. The European Union must be called upon to think about it and should remember its original sense of being an internal-European economic community of equally entitled sovereign states at the same level. The importance and existence of the EU must not be sacrificed by a centralist state. Let us confess ourselves to a sovereign home of Austria as an autarchic, equal economic partner! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8679	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8700	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! It's quite clear: We need a Europe of nations and not a Republic of Europe. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the delegation Walter Rosenkranz and Strache.]] And it is quite clear that as Europeans, I now trust Donald Trump must congratulate him on a day like this. He is the President of the United States, the world's largest democracy, and I think it's kind of inappropriate to start with Trump's critique even before he takes up his office. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] But back to Europe: If we consider Europe to be a residence, and somehow it is a residence for all of us, then never would anyone come up with the idea of making a community out of this residence – so far all the municipalities of this world have failed grandly. And if you want to make a republic of Europe from many different families living in this large residence, it will be similar to a community and become a similar cohesive unit, where no one feels comfortable. [[Abg. Strolz: Like Switzerland!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Windbüchler-Sauschill.]] We had in our own history, if we go back a little further, a multi-ethnic state that we are glorifying a little bit today, but why, unfortunately, has this multi-ethnic state been destroyed by God? – Too much centralism, too much centralist politics, which was made in Vienna at the time. And now we want to build the same thing in Brussels? – I don't think that would make sense. Or another negative example, a much more negative example of recent times: The USSR was a multi-ethnic state, was extremely centralist and regulated. It is broken, and the Asian region and the European area have not yet been completely caught. Russia is still marked by the fact that it has been pushed into a centralist overall package situation for so many years. So much more must be put on the characteristics of the countries, on the identities of the countries and on the nations, because that is exactly what makes all the people so dissatisfied today: It is not because we are missing Europe as a whole – we have an EU! – what we lack is rather the identity as a nation, the clarity as a nation, and what we lack here in the present time – in Austria very special – these are the closed borders. You have to say that here. People want borders, people want identity, people want nations and people don't want a huge single state, where at the end of the one-man human being, and like Nietzsche's last human being, they want a little bit of lightning and they're happy with his luxuriant life. I think you have to face it! That's not good for all of us, that's not good for people, and it's basically just an idea that comes from a social-Romantic left agenda, where you just want to make everything equal and wood it up and go over with the lawn mower and all want to get into a single view. From my point of view, only strong countries can be strong partners in a Europe. The strengthening of the nations is good! Strengthening the nations leads to a strengthening of the nations, and only strong, self-relating nations in correlation and in a relationship can form a strong Europe. It can never form a centralist giant moloch, which is being ruled in Brussels, a strong Europe! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] And the subject of trade: From my point of view, it would be easiest for us to go back to the EEC, which has still worked best retrospectively. That is why we can say: If you want a new Europe, you have to restore the old Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8761	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8782	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Chancellor! Values listeners here in the room and at home in front of the media! Many of you today have a little tired eye. I can understand this very well, because probably every politically interested person spent most of his night in front of the TV today to know how the elections are going in the US. In other words, I understand that you can give my voice to my words. I did not mention it, but I was amazed when I read the title of today's current European hour, because NEOS want or Mr Strolz clearly wants a European Republic. Do you know what that means? – They want the abolition of the nation states in Europe! You want to abolish the Republic of Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] I am really surprised that there is such an opinion in a national parliament. That you simply want to hand over the sovereignty of Austria entirely to the bureaucracy to which Tintenburg in Brussels: How can you do that? You practically want to abolish the borders, you want to abolish neutrality – so there is no reaction from the Ministry of the Interior, which has greatly surprised me. Somehow this seems to me like an early carnival joke. But I've been very busy with your person, including the interview with Rudi Fuzzi. As you say – and today you repeat it – the power goes from the people, you want to be a citizen, you want to have about a million voters by 2020 and the right to go from the people. [[Abg. Stroll: 2030!]] – Okay, but 72 percent of the population reject CETA! How does that fit in with your opinion? Fußi has recommended that you get a little louder. I guess that's part of that volume. Someone who actually used and used his volume well was elected President of the United States tonight, although he was accused of leading an election campaign of unfrozenness, of having committed a civilisation break, of being a plumber populist, stupid, medial, climate denyr, and what else do I know? I think you will be shocked, really shocked if you hear the opinion of a reader's letter about us, about Parliament as such. I'm just quoting a little piece from this reader's letter in the “Kronen Zeitung” of the 8th century. November. He writes: “Our decision-makers live completely unfavorably at our expense. In fact, it's fraud and nothing else. Most of today's actors can only be met in a way: with contempt. Something else they didn’t deserve at all.” I think that's shocking enough. And become a third time. You're shocked if I tell you the following: I have here a letter from the Austrian Justice Office, Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office. If you remember, just about a year ago I was labeled by you all as a persona non grata, as a black sheep, even as the evil of Austria. They have condemned me and have put my anti-Semitic opinion in my mind. Now let me tell you what the prosecutor wrote to me in a notice: The prosecutor has terminated the investigation procedure against you. I will in the future really beg to spread such opinions about myself. I thank you for listening and wish you a good discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8819	Now, Mr. Federal Chancellor Mag. I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8840	Finally, I would like to return to one, two points and also to the support of the petitioners, how the larger picture is to be classified here. But perhaps I may be allowed to outline the whole process in advance, because it is important to me that we put a few principles out of dispute – in all the disagreements we have there – and, in short, CETA, we are going into this whole process, and I can underline that. When the EU Commission has decided that this is an agreement submitted to the national parliaments for ratification, the Jean-Claude Juncker has done so, contrary to the Council of its own legal services. He shouldn't have done that. He met us, stretched out his hand, and said: I understand your problems. Let's discuss it together again! – And I have to say, I'm glad he did. I think it's smart and far-sighted that he did that. Only if you are in such a situation, in such a subject someone's hand is stretched out to you, then you have to evaluate: What's up? How can you improve, develop, weaken and progress the areas of problem that you see? If you meet this encounter in such a way that you hit out the stretched hand and say: No, we want to get through 100 percent of our concerns, in a constellation in which at the end the relation is 27 versus 1 or at least a clear minority comes out, then you can do it, you just have to be aware that this will have consequences in the end. – Consequences for Europe's position in the world. We have experienced, after the Brexit Vottum, how Europe is viewed in this international game of global forces, namely, with some uncertainty: Is there still a long way to go? How will all of this go on? Against this background, we also have responsibility for Europe's position in this global game. But we have even more responsibility for the Austrian interests within Europe, because if you vote out this hand and say that you are not interested in everything, then you must be aware that you are making this decision and we are again sharing common issues on the next occasion. We will have a great deal of difficulty in exercising our own positions. If you keep thinking about this and keep driving this game, then you can say: Yes, we are, of course, in favour of our role in the EU and we are opposed to an EU withdrawal! Only to act with this mentality in this group of 28 Heads of Government will ultimately lead to a dissent. In fact, you cannot seriously represent your position within this Community if you always try to enforce 100 percent there. This is not possible either, because if you go to such a meeting with 28 Heads of Government, it is clear that in the end you have to find something that everyone can live with. That was exactly the agreement process with CETA, and this is also the difference in the responsibility you, honourable Member, have quoted: Opposition work is to carry out the work of the intensification – my work is to optimize the overall interests of Austria, and CETA has succeeded in doing so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to address two fundamental points that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have asked for: more Europe – less Europe. Against this background I must say that I did not understand your proposal in such a way that you want to give up Austria, give up borders and do similar things, but it is about the question: How do we lead Europe, and how do we make decisions there? I find the concept that you represent quite interesting, however, must add that I think this is a really hopeless discussion at the moment, for the following reason: I fully share your analysis, because we have two very big problems that we have today. The first is: We have seen a massive expansion of the European Union in the 2000s, we have introduced new countries and then failed to clarify the mechanisms for making effective decisions in Europe. This is a problem today, especially if we are dealing with the migration crisis, and we see that we are not easily bringing together the various individual interests. And we have another problem: This is the question of economic and financial policy. We have decided to create the euro area, to introduce the euro, and have also failed to agree on a common economic and fiscal policy. This creates the second problem when it comes to dealing with the economic crisis today. We have experienced the outcome in 2008, and we know that Europe is still lagging behind in growth, employment and prospects, and in many areas it is not even at the pre-crisis level. Why do I view your discussion as hopeless? You're more likely to feel confirmed now. – It makes them hopeless, because I am convinced that if, in this situation, we cannot solve the virulent problems on the migration issue, on the economic policy issue, and instead, in Europe, we are dealing with the institutions and institutional reform – legitimately or not – in a debate that is likely to take years, I believe, the latter will lose and will not have any more confidence in the European Union’s ability to resolve. So nothing remains but this attempt to continue, to roll on this stone of Sisyphus, and first to come to good solutions on these crucial questions. And if we've cleared that up, then maybe once there's room for such a governance discussion. Just really political, I'm afraid, but with this concept we won't be a millimeter continue, neither in one direction nor in the other in a stronger disintegration. One last sentence on what Mr Schultes said, because it is also important to me: You misunderstand me! I am not interested in Chinese steel, I am interested in our steel, and I am interested in the European, Austrian steel. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kogler.]] But I think it was a promise if I interpreted you correctly. I would like to say with the same commitment that the Austrian eggs are also important – all serious – because that is exactly the same discussion. That's what it's all about: Do we have relatively naïve access to trade policy, or do we in Europe do what all others, such as the Americans, the Chinese, do? It is wonderful to read what is happening there for discussions. My plea is not to act naively, but to protect the interests of Austria and Europe with appropriate means.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8924	The next speaker is Mr Steinbichler.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e8952	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Perhaps before, Mr. Bundeskanzler: Thank you for this clear analysis of the development of the EU and these facts, because the title of this current hour – “CETA teaching” – precisely confirms that serious mistakes have been made. This is like the picture book when I heard again today how group leader Karas presented this as a huge success, without even saying where the success is hidden inside. I am simply satisfied that colleagues here praise the fact that they have read the agreement and stress that it is so important. I've said last time Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner, the worst thing you can do in life is buy remorse. I think that in this field of tension, starting from this document “Bauer ours”, which we saw yesterday in the Village Cinema, until today’s presidential election, the problem lies. And I did not go to bed until half past six, because after this document I looked at the reporting about America, which was presented by Tarek Leitner very excellently. I would say the following: If someone allows himself to say, the Americans are afraid of this president, then he has not noticed that the American people have elected this president. He has to skip this high latte, which was laid, first, and I am convinced that he should not be condemned, for the worst thing that has happened was the pre-condemning and drumming in the last three weeks: Trump mustn't be! Whether this is happening for Austria, everyone should answer for himself, and everyone should think about it. Mrs. Minzig, you are also one – now she has gone out – that brings in uncertainty, the unrest, an ungood feeling when it comes to these agreements. She does not recognise, as an economic director, that 2 200 small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, have confirmed their concerns about these free trade agreements with their signature, and they are just regulatory agreements. Then she still tries to make a picture – I put it back as Taferl – that has a medium-sized Vöcklabrucker, Regauer company on his homepage, the commercial company FAIE, who is worried about their customers, because they lose customers from rural areas, from fishing, hunting, riding when these agreements work. Instead of making fun of it and saying: I don't know where the stone biker has the Taferl!, just ask! You don't need to blame out here, you can talk about that in the collegial conversation. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But I can say the following, and that makes a very bad feeling: President Auer, the farmers' representatives and I can thank the chancellor for saying that consumer protection is a central issue in these free trade agreements. Commissioner Hogan was in this House and did not know – it is clear, he is not skilled, he is a Commissioner for Agriculture, but he has been trained in the insurance industry – that this G.G.A. sign, which he seems to have been sold as the great Austrian achievement for Austrian agriculture, as a security when the markets become international, says nothing at all. This is the famous Tyrolean company, coming from Denmark, mixed with beech wood from the Czech Republic or Poland and processed in Tyrol. He promised me he'll take care of it. He was not aware of the facts and will answer me in writing. I once again presented the facts to him in writing. We have intervened three times so far – and do not even have an input confirmation. Ladies and gentlemen, as a true farmer, as a four-fold father and 14-fold grandfather, you get the worst feeling you can have, which is probably obvious – even if you are still on sale. I would not conclude a single contract if I were to go to the market like that. I would like to thank the chancellor that he also addressed the eggs. I would have planned this for the debate on the tourism report. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how our European food label looks! [[Keeping a bottle of liquids in height]] Now there will be some who say: If you look at them three times, they're real ground-keeping eggs, you just have to look at them properly. – No, ladies and gentlemen, this is Füssigei, as it is used in every large kitchen in the hotel industry, in which gastronomy is used every day! In Austria we have the laws, the goods come ideally from Denmark, not from China – three and a half months durability, five e-numbers. I hope that I have not lost my appetite to too many citizens at home and they eat good domestic food. - Lunch!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9016	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:33:21]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9037	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 9549/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9277	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate. on the reply 9549/AB of Question No 9982/J by Mr Mag. Mr Brunner, colleagues in the field of energy strategy, held by the Federal Minister for Science, Research and the Economy. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9303	It is proposed that the debate on points 6 and 7 and 8 and 9 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9327	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 95, FPÖ 88, Green 74 as well as NEOS and Team Stronach each 39 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 20 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall immediately vote on the speaking time presented. Who agrees with this proposal? – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:35:22]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the report of the Federal Government on internal security in Austria (2015 Security Report) (III-290/1301 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9374	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. First word message: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9398	Mr National Council President! Minister of Justice! Minister of the Interior! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the figures of the 2015 Security Report, which are now known and presented, do not necessarily contribute to calming down if you look closer at these figures. There were fewer ads than 2014, which is quite obvious, namely 517 870 ads that have been received. The education rate has increased slightly. But with an Enlightenment rate of only 44 percent, you already have to maintain that successes look different and that we are not yet where we want to go and have to go. If you look at the overall picture, you can't be satisfied with it. The situation is particularly dramatic once again in Vienna. In Vienna, there were more than 195,000 criminal offences reported, which were about 535 committed daily, i.e. about 22 each hour. And the education rate in Vienna amounted to only 37.9% at all. You have to say that we have a very special problem in Vienna. For comparison Munich, a city to be compared to Vienna: Munich has 1.5 million inhabitants, where the Munich police and executive intelligence rate is 73.3 percent in 2015. This is quite a value where I say that we have to and want to go, and of course there is much to do to get there. If we look at the figures of crime development in 2015: The number of displayed intentional killings has increased by 28 cases or 26.2 percent to 135, of which 39 completed acts and 96 attempts. There is also an increase in ads for intentional body injury. The number of robberys on money institutions has also increased by 15.9 percent, with the Trafiken by 31.4 percent. So if you look more closely at the figures on violent crime, it becomes clear to you that we have a massive problem here because of the increases there. It is interesting to note that, compared to the last ten years in 2015, most foreign suspects could be investigated. This is a good development once in a while. The residence status of the foreign suspects is also broken down, which can be read from the report. Other suspects without employment: 28.6 percent, employees: 25.5 percent, tourists: 12.5 percent, asylum seekers: 15.60 percent, say: 16,000 suspect asylum seekers. Austria is also a consumer, transit and handling place for illegal drugs, drugs, as well as a location of various perpetrator groups and distribution networks. And, of course, the Balkan route plays a major role. We have known for years that heroin and opiate products from Afghanistan via the Balkans are smuggled through Austria and also in the other direction. In 2015, 10 512 ads were paid against foreigners under the Addiction Act. This is an increase of 25.91 percent compared to 2014. And we also have a massive increase of the perpetrators in this addiction group, in Nigerian perpetrators an increase of 182 percent, in people from Algeria by 46 percent, from Morocco by 40 percent, from Afghanistan by 16 percent. That means that we have a massive problem here, and this is, of course, an imported crime problem. Nor are the convictions without: Of the 49 210 crimes underlying the convictions, 29 449 were committed by Austrian perpetrators and 19 761 – 40.2 percent – were realized by foreign citizens. Of course, it must be noted that we also have a problem in the field of imported crime, in the field of foreign crime in Austria. And there's a need for action. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the first half of 2016, a trend is already apparent that the figures have continued to rise. 269 183 crimes were committed in the first half of 2016. For comparison: In the first half of 2015, there were 252,500 crimes. That means we already have an increase of 6.6 percent this year. And the security report shows that, in reality, a calming of the situation cannot even be the case. On the contrary! It would therefore be a fatal mistake to present the mistakes of the recent past, such as the closures of police inspections and the associated relocation of police officers in large-scale services, as they are positive or justified and also compensate for the current security problems with superficial and in practice unfit announcements. We have been allowed to act here, and I think it was a really serious mistake to close the police inspections in many areas. What the population wants is clear. We recognize that there is a need for security, which can be truly grasped, but which, of course, corresponds to the needs of the population: We need more executive staff! We really need action today and we need 5,000 additional executive planning posts for Austria. And there you have to remember: We had over 15 years ago in Austria by 5,000 executive planning posts more than today. [[Abg. Yılmaz:...! Where were you? They cut her off!]] And in between, something has happened, you always have to remember that. It must be recalled that there has been an Easter enlargement and an extension of the Schengen area and that since 2006, the SPÖ has not managed to finally implement these necessary 5 000 additional executive planning posts at the federal level. So there we have to go! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I say that it does not help to try with statistical placebos to represent some kind of conflict or to convey a subjective sense of security to the population and prefer a healthy world. We need additional planning stations, we also need better equipment for the executive, we need a reception offensive at the police. And, of course, it is about the fact that these new jobs are also to be filled with life and we must again try to further increase and strengthen the presence on the streets – as in the past the Rayon service of executive officials – and also to strengthen direct contact with entrepreneurs to strengthen with the citizens on the streets. And of course, part of our concept are also new police departments as well as the withdrawal of the completely missing service closures at the executive. All in all, an action also needs to be strongly opposed to the exploiting crime. In view of this, one must proceed with a zero tolerance policy against crime. This includes, of course, consistent deportations of criminal foreigners and criminal asylum seekers. We must finally take consistent action! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we miss God. There must be no tolerance, and in the past too, we have made many requests to which we have unfortunately not been able to obtain any consent from the SPÖ-ÖVP government. At the end of the day, I say in principle: It is important not only to increase the sense of security subjectively, but really political – and there we need action. In conclusion, I would like to say that it really needs the necessary 5,000 additional executive planning posts, an even better equipment, also the correction of errors made in the past with regard to the police departments, and, of course, increased stripping services on the streets, in the cities. This is necessary, also in the public transport of the cities, where police are also to be increasingly used. I hope that you will finally go over to these concrete actions and that will not be pushed away again and beautiful again and will comfort everyone. The Minister of the Interior is relatively fresh in office, and I hope that, in contrast to his predecessors, he may develop a little more bite. That would be necessary if the population wanted it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9455	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9478	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you to Mr Strache for making the distinction between objective security and subjective security. Objective security is the development of overall crime. The development of overall crime in 2015 is as low as it has never been in the last ten years. [[Place a panel with a column diagram on the speaker’s console]] Mr Strache, of course every crime is too much, but this development shows that the measures that have been taken in recent years are the right ones. The number of cases reported decreased by 14 percent compared with 2006. In Vienna, for the first time, the number of cases shown is less than 200 000. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Because they are no longer registered!]] And we now have a 44 percent education rate – it was 38 percent ten years ago. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Bravo! Bravo! That's incredible! We have always celebrated it. A number crash with 73 would be better, as in Munich!]] You have also highlighted Vienna, Mr Strache. In Vienna, the education rate increased by more than 3 percent from 2014 to 2015. Yes, it's right, it's 37 percent, and we're trying to get one percentage point, two percentage points, three, four, five percentage points each year. But we're moving up! That means: The way is the right one, the right action is taken. And you could support us in this – for more security in Austria, Mr. Strache! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we look at the Big Five in the crime statistics, then of course it is important that we make the distinction there. And I do not want to talk about anything, but it should also be mentioned the data that has been presented a lot better – and not only those data, Mr. Strache, which are for you those with whom you want to provoke with which you want to excite the people with whom you want to incite them. [[Deputies Hauser and Neubauer: Well, go! Stop it!]] No, it mustn't be about heating up. It must not, however, be about the truth being told. It is a matter of addressing things honestly and dealing responsibly with solutions – the solutions that the Minister of the Interior sets. That is the right answer, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So let's look at the Big Five! Break-in: minus 9.3 percent! Car thefts – quite the same – are minus 0.9 percent. Violence crimes – quite the same – plus 0.4 percent. [[Abg. Steinbichler: This is an old statistics!]] We have an increase in cybercrime – yes, that's why we have to take special care of ourselves. We have an increase of 11 percent in cybercrime. I must also call on the people to ensure that we are all very careful. Internet fraud prevails, many people are affected, and we all have to be much, much more careful. I am particularly grateful to the Federal Criminal Office, which is always setting up very special information initiatives on this subject, so that the population is more informed. I can only encourage you to do even more, because it is also our task to clarify here even more so that Internet fraud does not experience such an increase as it was last year. Economic and fraud crime has also fallen by 2.1 percent last year. What we note, however, is that organised crime is growing in particular – that is, the crime done by gangs abroad. This is not about the nature of the crimes, but about the way in which this crime is committed. But there are also some successes in the area of organised crime. A special field of organized crime is pocket theft. There was a decrease of 12 percent here. Another field where organised crime is always committed, particularly some of the gangs from Serbia, is the area of bank robbery and jewelry robbery. There is a drop of more than 25 percent. This shows that the action taken by the Austrian police together with Europol, together with Interpol, together with institutions at European level, takes effect here, that Austria is no longer a hotspot for international crime, but that international crime is being pushed back here. On the other hand, we find increased figures in organised tow crime. But this does not speak against the Austrian police, but it speaks for the Austrian police because the attacks in the tow crime have increased from 34 000 to 94 262. For this, a very special thanks to the Austrian police, which ensures that the tugs that make this inhumane business have no chance in Austria, “not at all”. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] They have addressed the subjective security. As far as subjective security is concerned, one thing I think is very important: We have the lowest crime figures in Burgenland, Austria. But at the same time we probably have an increased subjective feeling of insecurity there. I think there is no other federal country where people are as uncertain as in the Burgenland. This means that objective facts are precisely opposed to subjective perceptions. And it's our responsibility to make that clear. Therefore, Mr Strache, in those areas where there is little crime, also mention this fact that there is little crime, and do not insure people! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: It's only since the Tschürtz Security Council is!]] This uncertainty creates the subjective insecurity. However, we must fight together because it is our responsibility to work together for the Austrians – and not against it, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He now has the Enlightenment Rate...! That's it! He's done it now that there's so little...!]] In order to improve this subjective sense of security, the Austrian Minister of the Interior has also increased the number of executive servants accordingly. From the end of 2015 to the next year, we record over 1,700 Austrian executive officers. [[Abg. Hauser: How many are going to pension?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're setting the right accent here. We place it exactly where it is necessary, namely for greater security in Austria. For this, we invest more money, more money for the Austrian police – a total of more than €3.5 billion for 2017 – and we have so many staff in the Austrian executive as never before. Thank you very much for this – for the negotiations of Minister Sobotka and for the allocation of funds by Minister of Finance Schelling. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I believe that we must be very, very careful here, and I would like to take out another area of the security report. This concerns the increase in the number of demonstrations and attacks on top organs. It's bothering me. We note an increase in polarization in Austrian society, which means that one is less and less reluctant to attack state institutions to attack top organs. The threats to state protection have increased by more than 60 percent. This should concern us, and here is our task of helping in particular the subjective security – all of us, in all the factions that we sit here, must be careful – that we do not scatter resentment, but that we show on the other hand what investments we make. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: I think it's important that we take care of internal security. I thank the Minister of the Interior for this. It is important that we take care of external security. For this I thank Minister Doskozil with his federal army. And it is important that we are well represented in the world and that well before Austria is already being stopped. I thank our Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9664	Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9691	Thank you very much for the timely removal of Taferl. – Ladies and gentlemen! This was actually a very unusual introduction to the debate today by Mr Klubobmann Strache: a completely unblemished speech on security policy. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That will leave you now!]] – Mr Klubobmann Strache, where does this sudden lack of foam come from in your mouth? What's the reason? If you look at the security report – and then I would really like the Taferl again – then you can see that the clubman would have had to tell us if he wanted to warn us of exploding crime: The Freedom Party warns of an exploding falling crime! Now we're going to foreign crime. Well, how does it look? – The groups of perpetrators, Mr Strache: [[Abg. Hauser: It's nice that you make fun of the theme!]] 11.10% Romanian, 10.5% German, 9.9% Serbian. – What is your proposal now? Germans out? Get out of here? – The refugees are only coming much further in the back. [[Abg. New builder: Crime out!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: “Pilz out!” would be better!]] Next point: Within a year we have an increase in asylum applications by 300 percent, an increase in the crime suspects from this area of asylum seekers and asylum seekers of just 38 percent. There are three times the number of people coming, and the number of suspects is only one third! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's it! More asylum seekers than Austrians, then we have crime under control! That's it! That's great! Above all, the minor asylum seekers, who cannot be punished at all!]] Now I don't want to draw the wrong conclusion and say: Perfect dewarning, we have no problem! – But it is obvious that both executive and criminal justice and, in part, some small areas of integration policy are making progress. That you are not able to appreciate this progress and the successful work of the police, Mr Klubobmann Strache, that speaks for itself. That the warning about refugees is more important to you than the praise for a good and successful police work, that speaks for itself. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But we still have problems, and I do not rely on the Klubobmann Strache, nor on the present Minister of the Interior, but more important to me, for example, the Vice President of the German Federal Criminal Office, Mr Jürgen Stock, who publicly speaks for longer and with impressive figures and says that we have a growing problem, and this problem is – I quote –: We have a problem of increasing inequality and the decline of public resources in the area of especially young, poorly trained, disadvantaged and poorly integrated people – and these are not all young people of foreign origin. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Bad integrated, yes!]] What does that mean? – Our major security problem, and we need to make decisions, is: Are we investing in prevention – and this has a lot to do with poverty reduction, education and many other forms of integration, and that costs money – or are we going the American way? And the American way means: Social reduction and at the same time upgrading. And this is the program of the Austrian People's Party: Guns instead of minimum security. This is the security program of the Austrian People's Party. And I'll tell you: Look at America, look into the American cities, look at the American criminal statistics! It's going wrong! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We don't need guns anymore, we need more cops! This is the first important point. Not private arms brings something, but more competent, well-trained and well-paid police officers. [[Abg. Strache: Were you for the abolition of the police? ... the abolition of the police and the federal army!]] Secondly, We need money for integration. And thirdly, Only then do we have a chance to fight extremism. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] And, Mr. Klubobmann, I'll tell you something: Do you know where the greatest increases in extremism are? In your direct personal and political environment, right-wing extremism! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fraud in this area: plus 54.1 percent! – That goes on your political cap! This is a result of your personal and political hetze! [[Abg. Strache: What about your foam in front of your mouth?]] Persons, right-wing extremism, suspects: plus 63 percent in a year! [[Abg. Strache: You should wipe the foam out of the mouth! The foam in front of your mouth is pretty...!]] – For this, politicians like you, Mr Klubobmann Strache, are responsible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. New builder: So you don't get a very good logic!]] And I don't know if you're aware of what that means to the victims, the potential victims of this crime, when a political party makes the atmosphere behind it and turns it up. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is crazy!]] [[Abg. Hauser: They confuse cause and effect!]] We must give our police and our criminal justice all the means in which to make it Islamic terrorist threats, so that it can fight threats by organised crime by all means, but we also need to talk about the political backmen. [[Abg. Street: Left-extreme threats!]] Unfortunately, Mr Klubobmann Strache, there is nothing in the crime statistics and in the security report about who the political backmen are of some worrying developments. [[Abg. New builder: Then the Lord Pilz would stand in it!]] But I call you your name here because this Parliament is the place to talk about the really political ones. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9949	I call Mr Pendl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e9970	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, also on the gallery and in front of the screens! Yes, certain topics are always suitable for making different representations. But before I deal with some of the speeches made here by my previous speakers, I would like to start by thanking all the police officers, the soldiers, the judicial guard, my ministers, all those who work for security in this country every day. I think I can do that not only in my name, but I can do it in our common name. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Every single crime is too much. We don't need to discuss this either, but if number comparisons are brought over and over again, I would like to say: If, for example, I look at the statistics of ten years ago – by the way, the planning sites are not voting, but I have said this for the last time anyway, I do not have the time again – then I think that 2015 – unfortunately we have a different starting point in 2016 – tends to go in the right direction, that is not a question at all. This applies particularly to some areas of crime which concern us here, from the drugs to the cyber sector. It is true that the best preventive measure in this area is the one that has all work, well-trained – all these issues that concern the social field – but we also need to be clear that together – I mean both departments – we have to try to go a way to adapt the necessary legal measures of today and today's criminal offences. That's not a question at all. Mr. Justice Minister, I'm the last one to say: They're all locked up, and then we're going to get rid of our worries!, and I know that's not true, but I think we have to succeed at last – and I'm not going to get tired of saying that here every year: As long as crimes in the field of wealth are more punishable than offences involving body and life, we have the task of thinking about them together, for the greatest good is the health of citizens. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and to Mr Strache and Mr Walter Rosenkranz.]] I believe that if the courts do not go out of this way of life, then we need to think here – that is the place in charge – about how we can better ensure the security, the personal integrity of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a task that we do not pass by. It doesn't matter if we always take out individual crime groups and say: For God's sake, what happened now?- Oh, my God! – Whether it’s about protecting our Children are concerned with protecting our women, all these areas in which some suffer for a lifetime: We must discuss this together, inconveniently, very objectively, but also very consistently here and make the necessary adaptations and adjustments. Minister of the Interior, I have a request. I believe that the Federal Government is on the right track, including as regards the negotiations for the budget. We have planned the right planning points in all areas of the Ministry of the Interior, by the way also for the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, but we know about the natural processes. We have a huge effort in terms of retirement – by the way, the figures are rising due to the years – but we must not lose sight of taking part in the basic E2a training. All special units are for police with E2a basic training, but these are the designated guards and commanders we need in the police inspections. We really need to be careful, and if it is necessary, we need to start a cross-responsible action, which is not a problem either, but we need these commanders. In other words, in addition to the normal basic trainings at the start for the police, it also needs this training. I really ask you to do this together, because that's what we need to have a well-functioning service. In this sense, I would like to have some interesting discussions on what I believe is probably the best safety report in recent years, even though every single crime is too much for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10042	Mr Hagen has now come to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10064	Mr President. The Federal Ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking here about the 2015 Security Report, and I would like to stress this now, because we are already almost at the end of 2016 and, of course, we have changed many figures, as the Federal Minister for the Interior, in which we have already discussed the report, has also stated. Mr Pilz is going out now, but, Mr Pilz, you also heard: For the previous year 2016 – the figures are accordingly – the Federal Minister for the Interior has clearly said that the crime of asylum seekers has increased considerably. This has to do with the fact that last year most of the refugees came in the second half of the year, until the emergency brake has been pulled, and with the crimes they committed, one has to report a survey activity, and then it takes a few months for them to be displayed and then included in the statistics. The 2016 report will look quite different, you know, Mr President. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Well, I'm not so sure anymore!]] Main crimes are body injuries and drug offences, and these are the things that come to light. Unfortunately, we will not discuss this until next year. Ladies and gentlemen! We can see the decline in the number of ads in this report from a two-way perspective. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I can say: Okay, there's less ads, there were fewer crimes. – But that doesn’t have to be the case, because many people – I hear that, I am a lot with the people outside and discuss with them, I am a police officer myself – say to me: I don't show it at all, because it doesn't make sense anyway, because it's going somewhere in a dump because you don't catch it anyway! – This applies especially to minor crimes. [[Abg. Hauser: Police stations were locked up!]] That is how I can, of course, interpret a statistics. I'm saying, I believe in the good. As we have already heard from our colleagues, we have a very high education rate, which is positive. Over the last few weeks and months, we have had some spectacular criminal cases and crime series that have been discovered by the police's good work, and now I would also like to thank the police officers who, despite difficult circumstances and difficult working conditions, do very good work and ensure the safety of our citizens in Austria. I would like to thank you very much for this. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Pendl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I would also like to address something else in this area, something that has already been mentioned here: the attacks on police officers. These are increasing massively, I have already asked the Minister to do this and not always get the best answers, but I have to say honestly: These attacks on executive officers are on the increase, and this is very worrying to me. More often, serious injuries occur, and this, ladies and gentlemen, must be countered. The Minister for Justice has also intended to prevent this by intensifying the penalties by no longer being a cavalier’s offence, but by seeing very well that the person maintaining the security of this state and the order and rest in that state is also particularly protected. This is an important point, and we can only support it. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] I would also like to say: You're not just supposed to say thank you to the cops. Otto Pendl, it's right to say thank you, but it's also important that we do something for the police. [[Abg. Pendl: You don't have to tell me that!]] The staff has already been addressed. There is an increase now, but one has been cut off from the staff for years, you also have to know that – that's right, you have broken down – but we have realized that this was the wrong way, and now you have to increase accordingly. [[Abg. Pendl: I also know when! You too!]] But it does not help me if I create a certain number of planning sites, but people don't get it. I have to do something in the salary sector, and I have long called for a better basic salary for the executive, because, Mr Minister, you know: The police were then introduced in criminal reform as the first instance of the court proceedings, the police officers are doing legal activities, but they are paid like auxiliary workers. That is, if the allowances, which are not eligible for a pension – that is to say, one has to say – are lost or the police officer is in the state of illness, then all allowances are lost, then he has a basic salary, which is very low. This is where some of the minimum security recipients live – you can almost say that – better, because otherwise he gets a lot more sponsored, but the police officer doesn't, and then he has to sleep on the hunger cloth. Then you don't have to be surprised that you don't get a qualified and good staff, and you can't occupy many planning sites. Many young officials, who do the job and go to school, do the training and then come to the posts – you know, Minister, I told you in committee – quit after a short time and hang the job on the nail. In this way, we will not advance security in Austria. So there's a lot to do, and I think that the 2016 Security Report, which we'll be discussing in a year, I guess, will look a lot different. I hope that the situation for executive officials has improved well until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10169	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10190	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Nearly two thirds of the Austrian population are convinced that the security situation in Austria has deteriorated over the past ten years. Three-quarters feel that the political world situation is threatening, and this number has of course already been raised before 11/9. The survey dates back to spring. This feeling of uncertainty appears a little paradoxical when we hear now – Mr Gerstl has also explained it – that overall crime in Austria has fallen continuously over the last ten years and the education rate is increasing, even if it does not increase to an extent that can ever be satisfactory. In parallel, fear of crime is increasing. And if in 2016 – the raw data suggest this – there could be an increase in crime, especially small crime, then you have to analyze without becoming hysterical where this rise comes from. The greatest danger is probably Islamic-motivated extremism or Islamist terrorism worldwide, but also the reaction to it is not without danger, because the reaction is very often that security is being increased by freedom, i.e. more surveillance, more surveillance state, and that is also a risk potential for a liberal society. We need not only an increase in executives, we also need better cooperation at European level, also at national level. The example of the murder in the well market last year is a good example of how it was done with existing data, but not existing networking. A greater amount of data is of no use to us in this respect either. This, as has been said, only leads to an expansion of the surveillance state, and more than half of the Austrians are also entitled to data protection, and I see that as a matter of concern. The field of cybercrime – which has already been mentioned – actually occurs only very diffusely in perception and is neglected. Information and communication technology are a constant companion in everyday life. There are crime phenomena that we do not yet know, there is a large dark field that is not yet lit, and there can be everyone's sacrifice. Many criminal acts committed in connection with the Internet, with computers, can also be prevented by attention and appropriate measures. It's about prevention. Not only does it need the long-standing cybersecurity law, it also needs suitable technologies and products. Here, for example, we can take one example of creativity for Israel. Matthias Strolz, some other colleagues and I were there last week and looked at the start-up area in Israel. As you know, Israel is also one of the world market leaders or one of the leading nations in this area, because it is also being promoted. And that's something much more for prevention brings about as all the monitoring measures that your two departments are considering – that is the address of the two ministers. We need to think security much more widely, become preventively effective and active, because the challenges will certainly not decrease in 2017.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10239	I call Mr Lasar. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10260	Mr President. Dear Minister Brandstetter! Mr Sobotka! I also brought a board, unfortunately it doesn't hold well, but I'll show it later. First of all, I would like to say a few words to Mr Pilz. One thing you have to say: You know, you're actually the trekking father of left-wing extremism in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You're exactly the hetzer! And today you have foam in front of your mouth, not just because Strache has spoken – because not your Madam President has been elected in America. That's your problem! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Pillow.]] You don't need to laugh now – I know you have to overplay the whole thing now – I don't want to be stuck in your skin, neither today nor anywhere else. [[Abg. Pilz: I won't let you in either!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That means you are exactly the one who has foam in front of the mouth, and that especially today – that once said to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to Mr Gerstl – here he is already, servus! [[Abg. Gerstl: Yes!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Maybe or sure?]] I brought a table, too. [[Keeping a table with an ascending column diagram and the title “Development of Drug Crime in Austria 2006 – 2015”]] [[Call to the Greens: This is a note!]] Mein is now a little softer and shows the “School Crime in Austria 2006 – 2015”. [[Call to the Greens: You can't read that!]] [[Abg. Gerstl holds up his previously shown table with a descending column diagram.]] - It looks a little different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] But I'd like to come to that too. That addiction crime in Austria has increased from 24,008 ads in 2006 to 32,907 ads in 2015, shows that there are in fact nothing but too few officials, because there are so many incidents in addiction crime that can no longer be displayed because there are no officials in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] In Vienna we have far too few officials in the addiction crime, which exists in Vienna on the street. Mr Minister, I have to tell you – and I have already reached the actual point – that: For years it has been announced that your predecessor Mikl- Leitner has announced: We're finally getting more cops! – It has become no longer. It has always been filled with the exact exits. It's not become anymore, it just hasn't become anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] And you will fail just as many others, for a very simple reason because you have been making an announcement policy for years – so not [[Abg. Gerstl: What you do is insecure! You're insecure! It's true!]] You personally, Mr Minister, because you are not in office for too long, but nothing changes. The ÖVP... [[Abg. Gerstl: You're just not here long enough! You don't know that!]] - Gerstl, we know each other from the council. There you were a little better than here. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] I think it's changed a lot, but please also in your rhetoric. Take this seriously, take it seriously, take the statistics seriously, and do not come with a Taferl on which any offence has been presented that has gone down! [[Abg. Gerstl: (keeping his previously shown table in height) All! Everyone!]] That's exactly what I got you. It's about being honest. Let's be honest. Here you have an official statistics. [[Keeping the above-mentioned table in height]] Crime has just increased, and you can't talk about that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gerstl: I don't want to speak well!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: That's because...!]] Minister! I come to the point now, it concerns Vienna: Praterstern. I don't know if you've ever gone over the Praterstar on your own. That's horrendous, you don't want to pass by there. But people have to pass there every day, women in the evening coming from work, nurses who often stop working at 22:23. They're afraid there, please! You're afraid of going over the Praterstar. That's incredible! And what did you do, Minister? – Although you have done something good now, I admit that too, but it is still too little. Please don't just announce, Minister. That's the problem. We must also implement it, we must implement it for the benefit of the Austrians, and especially in Vienna. That's the point! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Sobotka! You could show today with your consent that you really want to do something for the officials too – what, as I believe, is just as important to you as we do from the FPÖ or me. I know it's not easy with this coalition, but you have here with us from the FPÖ a partner who will certainly agree to you today. I would be pleased if we agreed to this request together. Let us, Minister of the Interior, let the others talk what they want, let us just vote once, please, on one matter for the officials together! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is your officials who, for Austria – not only for the Vienna, but for all Austrians – really put themselves in danger every day, and I think they have truly earned this allowance. Please be so nice, give your heart a boost and just agree to this request or tell your group to do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10555	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10617	Mr Magnificent came to speak. It's a kilnauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10638	Mr President. Minister of Justice! Minister of the Interior! We are now discussing the 2015 Security Report, and we are going to say: Every crime, every crime is too much, but a world without crimes, a world without crimes will probably remain a utopia. As a result, the 2015 Security Report, which shows in its overall picture that over the last ten years the number of ads has reached a low level and the education rate is the highest. At this point, thank you very much, thank you very much to the police who every day care for the security of Austria. [[We welcome the ÖVP, the SPÖ Members and the Lasar and Strache Members.]] Nevertheless, the fact is that the subjective sense of security is falling because a threat to the immediate environment of life is feared. The question is: How to strengthen the subjective sense of security? . I do not believe that one constantly repeats how terrible everything is, and draws on individual areas, as Mr Lasar has done, but also not by populist statements, as made by Mr Pilz, who contrasts one area to another. Then: The fact is that in the 2017 budget, more than 51 percent are planned for work, social and family and 12.6 percent for the area of law and security. And, colleague Pilz, leave the church in the village, because not always percentages are really meaningful. In the case of more than 500 000 offences in 2015, approximately 1 100 are to be assigned to the right-wing area. And I'm calling for a measure, too, because politicians like you are also responsible for misinterpretations that increase uncertainty and increase polarization. And this is increasingly becoming a problem in our society. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Interior Minister Wolfgang Sobotka and our police are working actively and successfully to further improve the security situation in Austria. Three examples: First of all: Since 2009 a recording offensive has been running with the police. This means that by 2017 3 059 policemen will be more in service. And a greater number of police officers on the street also means more safety. Secondly, There is a security offensive with procurement of € 288 million for protective equipment, special use technology for communication, IT technology and IT security, air and motor vehicles. Not least, 6 000 ballistic vests were purchased. The last 1 000 come in the first quarter of 2017. Thirdly, The “Jointly secure” action is intended to establish a link between police officers and citizens, so that they themselves can actively participate in increasing security in their area. Then: Crime is low where the environment is careful, and our goal must be to pay attention to one another – in the sense of a comradeship between the neighbours, but also a comradeship between the citizens and the police. With this we work together on a safe Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10695	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I welcome a delegation from Israel here in the House, namely the member of the Board of Directors of the “Ghetto Fighters’ House Museum”, president of the Likud Party Court and member of the Knesset, other than Michael Kleiner and his wife and daughter, as well as the anti-terrorist officer of Menachem Start, former chief coordinator between Shin Bet and Mossad, Minister and member of the Knesset, Mr Rafael Eitan and his wife and delegation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] I can tell you that Rafael Eitan is the personality that Adolf Eichmann has firmly taken. Welcome to Parliament! Bruchim Haba’im! [[Complementary with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Korun.]] Mrs Mag. Korun. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10735	Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the screens! I would also like to welcome the young visitors to the gallery. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to thank the honourable gentleman who is responsible for the arrest of Adolf Eichmann, who has caused this. And I would like to stress once again: Never again fascism, never again racism – neither with us nor elsewhere! [[General condolences.]] Thanks a lot. It would certainly be a shortened and naïve view of things if one were to limit security policy only to police work, even if the police did very important and good work day by day. Then: Security policy also means social security. Security policy also means security of life. Security policy also means equal and fair opportunities for education. And last but not least, serious, honest security policy also means a fair distribution of wealth, which is undoubtedly present. In a society where rich are getting richer and poorer, it will not be well ordered for general security. I do not wish to see a society in which, on the one hand, rich people immerse themselves in their villas, with paid securities, but on the other hand, many people suffer from poverty and there is no equal opportunities and no right to education. So, when we talk about the annual security report and a serious security policy, we also need to talk about security of life. And that is why, also because in recent weeks and months there has been a lot of talk about minimum security, in the government and especially in the ÖVP, I would like to take the opportunity to stress here that this social network does not mean random minimum security. And here I would like to ask the question to all of us: What does one do if one takes away from the minimum, namely, the minimum amount of security of existence? – Then what is still there will simply and grippingly no longer be enough for life and survival. And we need to take a very close look at those times when the sense of security is sometimes falling considerably. What will happen in our society if, as the ÖVP intends, the minimum level of security of demand is reduced once again? [[Abg. Wöginger: When have we already shortened them?]] How much poverty will that produce? And there is also the question: What will those people who then will not have enough to live? [[Abg. Wöginger: Exactly!]] Is this not also a programme to promote crime, to promote crime, to promote property crimes? As elected representatives of the people, we must be very honest with this question and consider the answers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, some things are going wrong in security policy, too, in the sense that security policy is reduced to mere “police work” – under quotation marks – and then, when criminal offences have been committed, the lack of security in the country complains. That would be just the wrong way to make security policy, or would it be naïve to make security policy bad. I would now like to ask once again some of the questions I raised in the Committee on the Interior to the Minister for the Interior three weeks ago, and where it has been said that they will be answered in writing, because I have been waiting three weeks for the answer of the honourable Minister for the Interior. And that's... How many covert investigations have there been? How many shops have there been in the use of hidden investigations? And how many so-called trustees – people who are not police officers – were employed by the police? I would also like to repeat the question: Why is there no figures on advertising and court proceedings in the security report on Islamist extremism and terrorism? That too is a question where, three weeks ago, you, Minister of the Interior, said in the Committee on the Interior that the answer will be submitted in writing. The fact is: Parliament is still waiting for it today. In summary – many colleagues have already mentioned it before me –: Total crime has decreased slightly last year, and the education rate has increased slightly. But we still have problem areas. Of course, every crime is too much; in that we hope we will agree. Finally, I would like to repeat my appeal: It is very important that we take security policy seriously! I can tell you that as a woman, I am very much dependent on a good security policy, on a good social situation. Because I am also on the road a lot during the night, a lot after working hours, and I am going home a lot at night. I very much appreciate the certainty I have as a woman in Austria or in Vienna, and I do not want to miss that. That's why: If we want to maintain this security in our country, in our society, we must also make a serious social policy, a serious educational opportunity policy and a good integration policy! – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10803	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10824	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We've heard it many times today: Security is a basic need for people, and politics, together with the executive, must ensure that this basic need is also taken into account. There are two types of security: the subjective sense of security and the real security in Austria, both to be guaranteed. If you look at the 2015 security report, you can say – and we've heard that a few times today – that's right and right: It works well in Austria. The real security is given in Austria. The number of ads has fallen, as we have already heard, and the intelligence rate is 44 percent as high as never before in the last ten years, and violent offences have even been raised to 100 percent according to the security report. We are therefore certainly among the safest countries in Europe, and I think we must recognise that. These are facts, these are data, and you shouldn't somehow interpret them, that's just a fact. This is due to the good work of the executive, and for that I also thank the police. This, of course, is also due to increased prevention work – I am convinced – and this is also due to the increasing personal responsibility of people for their own security, which is also seen in the many discussions that are being held. We must therefore try to maintain this real security, this secure state of Austria, in the future, and, as I believe, the Federal Government is on a good footing: There are 1 660 policemen in 2016 more than in the previous year, and there will be around 1 570 police next year again. I think that's important, that's a real step to continue ensuring real security in Austria. [[Abg. Lasar: How high are the exits?]] On the other hand, there is the subjective sense of security, and we also need to strengthen it. From my point of view, this can be strengthened with more presence of executive officials. But this can be strengthened – and I am convinced – by the fact that we are carefully dealing with our words in the discussion, by discussing data-based and not acting easily with lump-sum convictions. Flat-rate convictions, convictions of whole groups of people, do not help to strengthen the subjective sense of security of people – neither in our discussions nor when media report in this way, nor even if we act lightly in social media with lump-sum convictions. On the contrary: Special convictions are also responsible for the fact that, as can be seen in the Security Report, the number of right-wing crimes has increased, in particular the number of those crimes that are reflected in Islam and Asylene actions. I think we have to deal with these lump-sum convictions carefully in order to counteract them. Similarly, one must take seriously the danger of Islamic extremism and terrorism and fight it against it. I am convinced that both, both right-wing acts and the other crimes I have now mentioned, are an attack on our freedom, on our values and on our peaceful cooperation in our democratic world, and we have the political responsibility to guarantee the existence of these values in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10861	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e10884	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Yes, what I have not heard of the subjective sense of security now! Why is it so difficult for the representatives of SPÖ and Greens to put the word to the left in connection with terrorism? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] “Islam” we have heard, “right-wing” we have heard or otherwise, but the word left-wing seems simply to be hidden in your language usage. - That's what it's supposed to be. That's not our problem. I did not want to speak in myself – but I would now like to turn to the Federal Minister – but because it was said by colleagues that one should not only talk about the subjective sense of security, I would also like to say something about it. Well, in the media and in the social media, it looks different. Name: What do you think of a report in the “Austria” newspaper of last Sunday, where it says: “Massschlagrei am Westbahnhof. Afghans and Somalis beat themselves”? What diffusive fears are these that are being startled there?, I ask you, because they say: That's all wrong, that's just there to bring the subjective sense of security into the basement! – No, my Ladies and gentlemen, these are facts, these are facts! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] And it goes on to say in the newspaper “Austria”, on the same page – so I can take every newspaper from every day –: ‘From local reference: Syrer threw knife on bar guests’. There was a 21-year-old Tyrolean injured. I am convinced that he was certainly not afraid of a diffuse, he probably had no fear when visiting this site, because it is an established Tyrolean, and he fears nothing at all. He still got the knife in and he's been hurt at risk of life – and, of course, as a general person, we also have the hospital costs to bear. Mr. Federal Minister Sobotka, stay on matters of minimum security and so continue to be hard on your coalition partner! It's the right way you're going. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now I am actually coming to what has been said here in the speeches. Mrs Korun, for example, spoke about what to consider if we take security policy seriously. Mr Korun, I would like to say one thing: Let's see that you get your insecurity spokesman Peter Pilz out of your group! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] This would in itself be an excellent step forward. Because one thing is clear: We are here in a National Council meeting and not in any conversational therapy session where you can solve some personal problem. One thing I would like to say is that it is a remarkable one. [[Abg. Schönegger: “Remarkable ”!]] For you, what has happened must have been absolutely remarkable, and I would like to make that clear to you, ladies and gentlemen. Col. Pilz comes here and sings a song of praise to the Austrian executive. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We know him as someone standing here claiming abuses that prove to be sound and smoke afterwards, and from this point of view the Austrian executive regularly scrutinizes. This is the true face of Mr. Peter Pilz! But now he's here as a protective cover madonna of the Austrian police. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] No one will believe that! Has he become as independent as the most independent of the independent even in this election campaign? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I would just like to tell you a little detail – it has been addressed the serious question of increasing right-wing crimes: I have asked a question to the Minister for the Interior, because there is the so-called NS badge law. Wherever an NS symbol, for example the hook cross, is on it, and it is displayed, it is of course a right-wing extreme offence, a violation of the badge law – except one finds the perpetrator. I then asked the question: What happens when such a cross is lulled onto the poster of the current President and Presidential candidate for Hofer? – It’s a violation of the badge law, that’s a right-wing extreme act. Then I did the game of thought: What happens when my colleague Pilz smears a hook cross himself, then sees in the statistics, it has gone on and pointed out with his finger and says: Oh, now the number of right-wing acts has already increased again!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Korun: That's an accompaniment!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] What does Mr Pilz say in the Committee on the Interior? – On a Nazi one must be able to lubricate a Nazi symbol on it! [[Abg. That's crazy! That's incredible!]] That's the unheard-of! It is unheard of to cast dirt and dirt on a man who is exalted above all doubts about this! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] To this end, I would like to say the following: If you want to keep driving this game that way, it won't go on! It is already a politician legally in several instances and on several It has been condemned for – criminal and civil law – and it has been clarified that it is not allowed to say Nazi to Norbert Hofer. You do it only – as you are used to – because you are here under the protection of immunity, which is basically something good. [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] But one thing I want to say for the future: Please, dear SPÖ and dear ÖVP, let 2017 finally be better earlier than later the new elections! Not to provide for other, clear conditions in Austria, but so that this anti-Austria party of the Greens is no longer represented here and Mr. Peter Pilz no longer has immunity!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11043	The next speaker is Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11065	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Mr Rosenkranz, if we work well, we can also say that, and the safety report shows that the work of our security officials is really good. Mrs Korun, I think that minimum security is highest in our country, and in all other countries it is not that high, and of course this attracts many people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] For one, a certain amount of money is high enough, but not for the other, so this is not a point for a security argument. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Korun: Oh yes! It's security of existence!]] Due to the world political situation in 2015 and the resulting flows of refugees, the maintenance of public security and order was only possible through the massive use of our police. There have often been powerful and difficult operations at the border, and it has also been carried out massively against the tow beings. You can see the success, because there have been many arrests of tugs. I would also like to thank our Minister very much, because it has increased the number of police forces, and this is of course an important point. The report also shows us that violence is increasing, because total violence has increased by 0.4 percent. In 2015, the rate of information on violent offences increased by 0.7 percent, i.e. to 83.5 percent. This is the highest value we have been able to achieve in the last ten years. In particular, the report also shows that our 32 000 police officers do excellent work. In the ten-year review, we can see that the number of ads has decreased and the percentage of information is very high at 44 percent. This is also the highest reconnaissance rate for ten years. The number of ads due to collapses in homes and houses has also fallen, with 40 percent of the housing break-ins remaining in the attempt to break-in and no longer being able to complete the act by the perpetrator. The whole of this shows that good education and good prevention are important facts for the population, thereby reducing the breakdowns. The number of car thefts has also been almost constant for six years, with the ten-year lowest in 2015. A major challenge is cybercrime, which needs to be more closely addressed in the future. But I am particularly grateful to the police, the executive, because by their use they have made Austria a lot safer and a lot more viable. However, the Security Report also shows cooperation with the judiciary. The duration of the procedure has been reduced and in recent years the average duration has been reduced to 1.1 months. In these areas, good work will be done and in the future efforts will continue to be made to reduce the duration of the procedure. The report also shows, however, that the number of young prisoners has fallen. This is also an important value. Summary: We are living in one of the safest countries in the world with the lowest value of the overall crime over the last ten years and the highest level of education over the last ten years. In this sense, I would like to thank once again for the excellent and often difficult work of the security forces, both the police and the soldiers and the judicial guard, but also the citizens for their participation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11113	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11135	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Right at the beginning, I would like to address the FPÖ with an answer to Mr Pilz's comments. I am also glad that the gentlemen and ladies from Israel are still here, and they can also listen from my side to the colleague Lasar. I've never heard from my colleague Pilz that he'd called President Hofer a Nazi. This is an immense accusation from you, Mr Rosenkranz! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You weren't in the Committee on the Interior!]] But let's talk about Tacheles! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You weren't in the Committee on the Interior, he was sitting next to me!]] I'll tell you something. Mr Pilz rightly referred to the relationship between the FPÖ and the extremism of the right. Let's talk to Tacheles! [[Call at the FPÖ:A left-wing extreme speaks for a left-wing extremist!]] I quote from today’s “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”: “Wartberg an der Krems. In an elaborate outfit, a visitor to a party event of the Freemans in the district of Kirchdorf crossed up.” – Negotiation, Landesgericht, nine months, re-activating. 14 days ago: At the final event of Norbert Hofer in May in Vienna, a person called “Heil Hitler” – he was not the only one – and also showed the Hitler greeting. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's forbidden, yes!]] He was sentenced by the court: 18 months. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He was sentenced, right!]] I have seen pictures and videos of this graduation event myself: He was not the only one, there were several people who showed the Hitler greeting independently of each other. It happens again and again at free events, no matter what nature the Hitler greeting is shown that people with sophisticated T-shirts appear et cetera. [[Interlocutory calls from Walter Rosenkranz and Stefan.]] That's a problem you have! President Hofer also mentioned this by admitting – just as Mr Haimbuchner did – that: Yeah, we've got a fool hem. [[Abg. Stefan: That you are happy about it!]] – And what are you doing against the foolsaum? - You keep it with you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The essential thing about a hem is that you make it against fringing and forming it. Mr Rosenkranz or Mr Lasar, I would like to give you an inconvenient example because this has been a long time ago: In 2002, then Minister of the Interior, Strasser, presented himself at a press conference and presented the largest weapons fund at a Nazi organization in the Second Republic. It was the SS military community Prince Eugen. Eight house searches were made and six people were treated as suspects. Do you know what came out? – Over 100 weapons have been found – rifles, ammunition et cetera. Numerous NS badges have been found, devotionals from the Ku-Klux-Klan et cetera. Do you know what came out? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You'll say it right away!]] – Four convictions: Punishment for violation of the Weapons Act. That's the one point. There I am now at the Minister of the Interior. Two or three years ago, the head of constitutional protection – moment! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What do you want to tell me now?]] Listen! – in a public broadcast by the ORF on the occasion of a report on the stay of David Duke – this is a Ku Klux-Klan man, a rabbiic antisemit who is known worldwide and who has lived here for several years unlit here in Austria – stopped and said: We have nothing to do with Mr David Duke, we will not determine against David Duke! David Duke is an insolent man, he can live here as he pleases! - I'd like to tell you. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Oellinger, what does it have to do with the FPÖ? What's that got to do with me because you're telling me all this?]] It's good for you, an education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Five years ago, there was a neo-Nazi website called Alpen-Donau, where some of your party did not detach – you have to say so – and claimed that this site was operated by the Greens. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Korun.]] It turned out something completely different. But I am telling you, Minister of the Interior and also Mr Minister of Justice, that this is also because not all those responsible for this website are still in court for re-acting and had to answer. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: They wanted to tell me!]] The whole has been completed in 2011 with house searches et cetera, and there is enough material. [[Abg. Stefan: You know more than justice!]] Now we are in 2016, and the first people who have been sentenced in 2012, 2013 are being released from prison again, and the other leaders of this site are still not in court. Let me tell you something more about this now to the Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So not me?]] - No, in this case not you. Mr. Justice Minister, I pay attention to your efforts in terms of re-activating or rejuvenating. However, I really think it is a huge problem that a lawyer who denies in a plea in court that there has been a gas chamber in Mauthausen, who, in the police consultation thereafter, once again denies the gas chamber in Mauthausen, is not brought to court because of the suspicion of re-acting, but rather a board of instructions of the Ministry of Justice – on whatever occasion is set in motion. Although the charge was already valid, the prosecutor's office charged him, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office agreed to it, it is nevertheless, for whatever reason, set in motion the Council of Instructions, and this is then: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Chairperson of the Council of Directions states: These were just two sentences he said, two stupid sentences. [[Abg. Fekter: “Blow ” he didn’t say!]] I don't think that's acceptable! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is a responsibility that I would like to have explained a little more precisely in all efforts made by the judicial authorities, but also by the police authorities. That is why, Minister of Justice, I would ask you – you have also been confronted with an appropriate request from me – to make it clear on this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11360	Mrs Lueger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11381	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I would like to return to the 2015 Security Report. I do not think anyone who has dealt seriously with this and has read the security report can claim that there has not been a decline in crime, a decline in ads, and that there is not the highest level of investigation over the last ten years. However, the new potential for danger lies in extremism and Islamism. Right-wing extremist and, above all, xenophobic acts have increased by more than 50 percent compared to 2014. I can already tell you about the phenomenon of extremism, xenophobia and asylum: This sharp increase in acts of right-wing, xenophobic, racist, Islamic and anti-Semitic motives is remarkable. If you had read this, you would have found it on page 49 of the security report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In comparison, the crimes of the left-wing spectrum are: You're so happy to answer, you're going back. That is also set out in the report. – That at the address of Mr Rosenkranz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] Mrs Diesner-Wais, you mentioned it once again: Yes, the migration movement is part of the security report. But it is so – and the Committee's Minister of the Interior has said – that it cannot, in the 2015 report, as the migration movement has only begun strongly in the middle of 2015, in fact. That is to say, this immediate link you have tried to create is not fully illustrated in the 2015 Security Report. This will be seen in the 2016 Security Report and you really have to look at it on the basis of the figures, but ultimately it is not in this report. Mr Lasar came out with a paper showing that drug crime has increased. I say: I'm sorry that somehow in the preparation process some sort of lost that cybercrime has also increased. These are the only two points that have increased according to the 2015 Security Report. But then you should have had the courage to stand here and say that the rest has gone back! There you would have really been in the overall crime... [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That's what Mr Strache said!]] I can always pick out the negative and try to make the mood. I think, however, that the safety report is a numbering work on it, a proof of what happened this year, and one should not try to get the mood of these figures, but should clearly analyze these figures.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11430	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11451	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear Members of the House! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Mr Oellinger, even if you might like it different, but in Austria the law enforcement authorities and the courts are still responsible for criminal justice, and these are obviously very good at their duties. You yourself have quoted twice how right-wing extremes have been condemned – thank God! Neither you nor Mr President Hofer have the possibility of persecuting someone, quite the contrary, he and the national deputy Haimbuchner have just not presented themselves to these people, but they have called them “Narrensaum” which we do not want to have exactly. Do you know what I'd like about you or your party? – That you do not face the far-left violent perpetrators, who often make a fool out there on some demonstrations and are really condemned for crimes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the contrary! As Members of Parliament and other Members of your group, you are also taking part in these extreme violences. [[Abg. Lugar: Right!]] They even face a criminally convicted person, and I have never seen that from any liberal Member somewhere – listen to it, listen to it! – I’ve never seen that before by a liberal MP. [[Abg. Oils: Watch out!]] [[Abg. Oillings: They are dancing together, the Lord Strache and the Lord...!]] That's what you're doing. You just need to look at: In the case of a criminal convicted person in connection with the WKR ball, you have still faced him, even though he has been sentenced by our good criminal justice. I've never seen that before from a liberal, and you have to admit that. - Yeah, that's the way it is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with all the congratulations we can give ourselves, and how we can knock on our shoulder, as overall crime has fallen slightly: We are now in the second half of 2016, and there is already something frightening to see, namely that crime in Linz increased by 33 percent from the first half of 2015 to the first half of 2016, by 22.1 percent in Steyr, and by 20.7 percent in Salzburg. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That can't be true! It's not in there!]] [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] – This concerns overall crime, there is a parliamentary question. Check it out! This is not a reason that enables us to beat each other on our shoulders. It is a reason for us to continue to work and see that we are continuing to work on the security situation in Austria. You're doing this anyway, because you're investing more, but you really are. This is not a condition for knocking on the shoulders. Even if some here in the House would like to be silent and you're always talking about that, we'd pick out the worst: One thing this safety report clearly shows, and there's no need for a liberal demagogen to find out somewhere, but that's what this report delivers quite clearly – I don't need to invent anything or say anything about what you always blame us – I'm just quoting: “The share of sentenced foreign nationals increased from 23.6 to 30.8% between 2001 and 2005, was just under 30% from 2006 to 2009 and reached the highest value of 40% in the year under review.” Well, that’s really crazy! I'll keep quoting 'cause of course you're yelling and saying, Ah, this evil criminal justice, they're all xenophobic! – On the contrary, the report makes it clear: When comparing according to nationality, it should be noted that more proceedings against foreign citizens have been initiated than those against Austrians. I don't need to say anything more, the numbers do the rest of them and say everything. Even because it always means that the evil liberals take this on their occasion, of course, and find out the worst. On the contrary: We are the ones who do not cover their eyes, we point out what it is doing in this Republic and we put our fingers in these wounds! Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig said that we do not want flat-rate convictions. – I also don’t want flat-rate convictions, but that’s just something that shows this very well. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: But you do them!]] I'll tell you something – yes, these are individual perpetrators: [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: These are people! They're single perpetrators!]] Not only among the convicted offenders is the proportion of foreigners particularly high, but also among the victims. In Austria we have a 14.6 percent share of foreigners, and among the victims of crime, foreigners are present at 28.5 percent. – I also want to protect these people. I want to protect all people, no matter where they come from. You just have to say once that it's just like that. This is not discrimination, the figures tell us quite clearly, and that must be said. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to say one more thing, Mr Minister of Justice: They have written on the flags to promote the takeover of foreign offenders by their home countries. I ask you: Stay on this course! We have an increase in the costs per prisoner by more than 10 percent, on the same page we can see that the number of transfers to the home countries is declining. Please stick to it and perhaps address it again at one of the next EU summits! Finally, I would like to say something: Despite adverse circumstances, despite scarce resources, I would like to thank all executive officials, all judicial officials, the judicial and non-judicial staff, the people who get up every day in the early morning to protect us. With us liberals, you have a strong partner to continue to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11617	Mr Oellinger is speaking on a corrective report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11641	In his speech, Member Schrangl claimed that FPÖ had never protected itself from right-wing extremities. I'm actually correcting: There is a photo that Deputies Strache in Straß-Spielfeld shows how he dines from the identity movement in a local – at a beautifully covered table – with well-known right-wing violent agents.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11696	Mr Gahr has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11718	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The ongoing discussion shows that some of the safety reports only show the negative, but there are also, I believe, quite positive developments. One thing is clearly stated at the outset: Austria is a safe country, but we must continue to work on safety. The security report confirms the reliable and good work of the police and the judicial system. There are 32 000 employees in the police sector, who are working daily. Today, the personnel situation has already been criticized by the police several times. The fact is, from 2009 to 2015, there have been 6 406 new recordings at 5 056 exits. This is a plus of 1 350. In 2016 and 2017, there are forecast 1 526 outputs and 3 235 planned new recordings. This is also a plus of 1,709 people. That is, in total, there have been 3 059 police officers in Austria since 2009. To this end, there will also be an executive body plan by 2019, for which an action plan has been decided. I think we have to work on efficiency, but of course we can also call for the personnel situation. It is fact, personnel is present, but we also need to use it specifically. The Security Report gives us a clear mission: It's about dealing with current threats. Some have already been mentioned today, they concern the migration crisis or the effects of the migration crisis, they are about extremism, terrorism, Islamism, cybercrime and, of course, the rise of the Crimes in the far right sector – there was an increase of 54 percent from 2014 to 2015. So fact is, not everything develops domestically, much also comes from outside to Austria. These challenges, I believe, can only be addressed in the good and optimised cooperation between executives and justice, Minister of State. Finally, I may mention the joint project, which the BMI initiated. This is about the fact that we also involve the people in security, so all citizens and all the citizens who go through life with open eyes also have perceptions and also contribute to showing things. This project, in which the population, together with the police, develops things for security, is extremely successful. Overall, I believe, it is about maintaining public security. This safety report is a report that gives us a lot of information for the future that challenges us. Overall, it is about strengthening the sense of security and ensuring the quality of life in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11763	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kumpitsch to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11784	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It should not be said that the liberals find everything negative, which is contained in the security report. Above all, I think one point is positive, namely that last year, under the abuse of the word asylum, mass immigration has now been described as what it is, the largest migration crisis since the Second World War. The vast majority of these people – and we know that – were not refugees under the Geneva Convention. They have already stayed in safe third countries. What did we do? – The government has not sought to comply with the laws, not on border security, and above all on compliance with international, especially the European Treaties, and has not even complied with them. At the same time, the migrants were delighted to welcome them, they quoted them all as refugees and vulnerable people, and the media celebrated this welcome culture outside. The whole thing – and now we are back to the safety report – was not without consequences: Thus, the number of asylum seekers rose from around 28 000 to 88 000 in 2014 compared to 2015, which is an increase of 214.1 percent. Instead of initiating immediate action and making it clear in a closed and energetic way that this media welcome culture – which I mentioned earlier – lacks any legal but realistic basis and that there will also be negative decisions, or that there has been concern for security in the country, the government has shown one, namely disagreement and incompetence. For everyone it was visible from the very beginning that the good people in the government obviously could not agree with the realists and the undecided and that they stood in the way, so to speak, of each other. Finally, we only owe thanks to the use of the police and the help of the federal army that we were able to restore the public order and security – I say that consciously. That is why, like many other colleagues, I express our thanks to the police, the federal army and all the other executive officials, our real, warm thanks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, in concrete terms, to statistics: Now, if you want to give the positive impression with these statistics that you have really done something that the figures of 2015 have reversed, namely that they have reached a depth that we have had the last ten years ago, and that by doing so, crime or, better to say, the cases of criminal handlugs have been statistically reduced by 1.9 percent, it is true. It was 1.9 percent, but it's not a reason to celebrate. One thing I have to say: Around half a million criminal acts are actually an unreasonable burden for the citizens of the country in a country like Austria. How do you explain to the victims that they could actually be quite satisfied because statistics have gone down anyway? [[Call the SPÖ: No one said that!]] The truth as to why these statistics are backward lies elsewhere, namely, in the question of what was before. We have not yet illuminated this, namely a failed and broken security policy in recent years. [[Abg. Plessl: When was that?]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: 2014!]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: 2004! Who was in office at the time?]] You're just thinking about closing police posts. The non-retirement of plans has pushed the executive to the edge of performance. This slogan, fewer police services mean more security, has apparently not gone up. The number of police officers has just been diluted, so that the officials have served around the clock, especially during the time we had the migration crisis. The officials were on the border, and colleagues could not carry out a strip, and in the meantime even posts had to be temporarily closed. Now you can answer for yourself the question of why the number of criminal offences has declined. One thing is clear – Mr Hagen mentioned this too –: Many offences require an investigation by officials or their increased presence. If one does not do so, it is imperative that the number of crimes reported must also be reversed. If we now take a look at the overall crime in the first half of 2015 compared to the first half of 2014, we actually see that the path leads up steeply, as already mentioned. In my hometown of Graz, the total number of ads increased from 11 504 to 12 924. – That’s a good plus of 12.3 percent. The total number of ads also increased by 20 percent in the district of my home community, Graz-Umgegebung, in the district of Leoben-Land. Especially worrying, but not unexpected, is the fact that the number of crimes against sexual integrity and self-determination – apparently, and this can be seen as a result of the migration of migrants from other cultures – has increased. This is a fact, and you can also read it statistically. [[Abg. Lueger: This is a presumption!]] [[Abg. Plessl: You can't read that out!]] From 1,890 crimes in 2014, there has been an increase of 54,2 percent to 2,889 crimes across Austria, and this is remarkable, but also very, very worrying. I'm really asking you: Do we want to continue this political and legal path of helplessness, or are we finally willing to give citizens what they have a right to, namely protection and security? For me personally, the first step means – and now really listen well! ==References====External links== December 2016 Norbert Hofer to vote. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Go!]] One thing is clear, he is the most suitable candidate because of his uprightness, humanity and his unbroken will to stand up for our country and our people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11907	For business treatment, Mr. Dr. Pilz reported in word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11931	Mr President. The final sentence of the last speaker – with the open call for an election – fits very well with what I now have to say on the Presidency. First of all: Mr President Ing. Mr Hofer, there have been several incidents in the current debate. The first is that Mrs Rosenkranz has accused me of ‘stubling’ the Austrian executive with my speech, i.e. the police – I quote. ==References== It is precisely because of this expression that the then President Prammer issued a call for order to this Member. I expressly note that this call for order is pending from your side until now. I can't judge if you're going to give him. Secondly, Another Member of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Left-wing extremities of violence are certainly criminal acts within the meaning of the Criminal Code. There has also been no call for order from your side. Thirdly, Mr Rosenkranz, in his speech, has said that I would have you, Mr President Ing. Hofer, called Nazi. – He obviously felt it important to defend you against the accusation that you were a Nazi in the context of this short election campaign of the Freedom Party. I can't judge why he did that. It is only important to me: I am not the only one who has warned of the fact that due to its double burden, it may be difficult to lead the presidency as a leader of a political party and as President of the National Council. I'm gonna find this out now. Obviously, we are dealing with such a case. [[Abg. Lugar: such a fool!]] I would ask you, although I assume that you have heard what your political group colleagues have said here from the speaker's desk directly in front of you, to follow this matter now in the presidency by taking up the Stenographical Protocol and, in the sense that the National Council's chairperson has been exercised, to lead this meeting unimplicated by your second function and to take the appropriate measures, even if they are party friends. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e11966	Are there any further statements on business treatment? - That's not the case. Dr. Pilz, I can say that I have listened very carefully and always decide whether to give an order or not in the context of speeches. It's not always easy, because of course I have to try to be objective. Overall, a speaker in my group is generally more likely to receive a call for order. [[Call the FPÖ: This is not fair!]] The accusation that something untruthful has been claimed is difficult for me, because then I would always have to give a call for order if someone in this plenary said something untruthful. However, this is not the task of the Presidency. I was not present in this debate and I do not know what you said and what someone heard, but I can assure you that I am trying to exercise the Presidency according to best knowledge and conscience in such a way that the meetings take place within a framework worthy of this House. In which words a call for order is issued or not, the President shall always decide. I am not willing to say, of course, that I am not flawless and it can happen to me that I am hearing a word. I can assure you, however, that I am very much trying to exercise the Presidency in my activities in such a way that it is fair and, as a rule, the mandates of my group are more effective than others. I should like to ask you to update the Stenographical Protocol so that I can look at these accusations. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of Team Stronach and ÖVP.]] The next item is Mr Plessl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12004	Mr President. Minister of Justice! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Today we are discussing the 2015 Security Report. At the outset, I would like to address the positive development: The cases shown fell by 1.9 percent to 517 870, with the education rate increased by 0.9 percent to 44 percent. In the following areas, the offences have decreased by 9.3 percent, by 0.9 percent for car thefts, and by 2.1 percent for economic crime. In the case of violent offences, the number of about 40 000 has remained the same, and the cyber-crime sector has increased by 11.6 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! These are developments that the Security Report shows. But there is no question that every single crime is too much, and I would like to thank all those officials who have contributed to this security report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One makes it very easy to trace the causes of development in some areas only to migration, in fact, the problem is much more profound. In the Ministry of the Interior, a number of measures have been taken to illustrate why we have the existing problems. In the period from 2000 to 2006, some of my previous speakers have already spoken about this, a reduction in the staff level of 3,000 police officers has been carried out. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, excellent structures have also been broken down: Structures in the criminal police, in the departments and in the specialists. And this is exactly what we're talking about. We now turn to the following areas: e.g. with the use of Witzel-Politics, who are to be there again as a contact person for the population, or by bringing together the specialists, the groups responsible for the areas of robbery, violence, arson and pocket theft, so that they can work more efficiently. This is an important point which is at least mentioned here. If some of the FPÖ's representatives stand out here and in a motion for a resolution call for a tax allowance for executive officials, I must say that, especially those who were responsible in their party at the time and made sure that it became fewer by 3,000 police officers, now stand here and complain of the fact that there are too few police officers in Vienna. Since 2008, an additional 1 000 were recruited, in 2013 another 1 000 police officers. Furthermore, there was an increase of a total of 2,000 police in 2016. We had to compensate again for the failures that have been raised here. That's supposed to be and must be held. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, one more thing: Unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior is no longer present, but perhaps you too can cause time to be shortened in the future, as it is already a bit curious if we were to move on to 17. March the press releases on the 2015 Security Report, but only today, in November, the Security Report can be discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12062	Next, Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12083	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the gallery! What is the point of a report such as the security report that we have been presented to us? – In order to see where we can improve where new developments take place, new phenomena occur in statistics and what we need to take into account. We have already heard that in almost all criminal offences there is a decline and a higher level of information. That's very pleasing. However, we have to read in the report that acts of xenophobia and right-wing extremism have increased by 54.1 percent – that is huge, that is a lot. Dear Ladies and gentlemen! In this Republic there was once again a right-wing extremism report, which unfortunately was abolished under black and blue. I will not stop being presented to the Minister for the Interior and insisting on reintroducing this right-wing extremism report. We must face this, not only as a parliament, as politicians, but as a whole society: What are we doing wrong that there is such an increase? I also hope that there will be an understanding and that we will counteract this phenomenon with measures. Dear colleague Schrangl! They've been handling numbers from 2016. Since you referred to a request from your colleague, Mr Rosenkranz, who was put forward in August, I should like to quote the Minister of the Interior, please include: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl]] ‘It is explicitly pointed out that experts from science in the framework of the project ‘Criminal Statistics New’ have found that statements on the security situation and the criminality burden from quarterly and half-yearly It is not possible for the figures to be set because the conclusions drawn from the scientific review do not stand by them.' Take note of this! We will discuss 2016 next year. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12134	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12156	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The Austrian population has a constitutional right to safety. The internal security must be manufactured or ensured by police, judicial authorities, but also by the federal army. In recent years, these authorities have had a negligent or dangerous recovery. In the field of the Ministry of Defence, the assessment was that crises would be announced with an advance of about ten years. This has definitely proved to be wrong. The waves of migration were totally underestimated as a huge security problem. The wave of refugees has already been recorded in 2014. However, there was no rethinking and no response to this emerging crisis for Europe as a whole. We feel the consequences today and will still feel for a long time. The achievement of the parallel daily tasks can and could not be carried out to the necessary extent, leading to an increase in crime and a legitimate uncertainty of the population, although police and soldiers do almost overhumane things. Thank them and acknowledge them for this! The refugee crisis will continue to intensify. Furthermore, further waves of refugees are to be expected, so that at least we need to protect ourselves at present and take appropriate measures. Neither the EU, let alone Turkey – which is now sufficiently proven – is left. The migration crisis is being dealt with by Austria as well as by a few other EU Member States with viable social systems, which are being abandoned by the EU, which has still not managed to secure its external borders. The devastating mistakes of the past now require considerable financial effort to meet the security of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12183	Mr Brandstetter, Federal Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12204	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would, of course, like to assure Mr Öllinger that I will answer his question not only according to the best of knowledge and conscience, but I will also provide this answer with all the documents necessary to be able to really make a more accurate picture. It will, of course, also be the entire plea of the defender of duty, because it is important to be able to take note of everything that has been said there and not just individual sentences that have necessarily been torn out of the context and published by the media. But I think it's important, and give you the right thing: You have a right to receive the appropriate information. This is also important to me, and I I think – I think we agree – the Council of Instructions, which is acting completely independently and is by the way not located in the Ministry of Justice, but at the General Procuratorate, is really totally unwarranted when it comes to acting on any grounds. I'm sure not. You will see, if you have the entire picture, you will surely be better able to understand this decision. Of course, I realize that you can't wait until all the answers and written documents are available. I therefore – and I do not want to mention this – agreed with the Cultusgemeinde and the Mauthausen Committee in the short term. These will take place in the next few days, as I also want to explain, on the basis of the facts and facts, what has actually been decided by whom. That's good and right. However, the fact is that – and now I am going to transfer to the real issue, on which I also wanted to make a few comments – that law enforcement in the field of re-activating/prohibition has been significantly intensified in the last two years. There has been a significant increase in the number of procedures. You can take a closer look at that in detail. So you can already say that the cannons of the prosecutor's office are very sharp. That is also good and will remain the same. If we look at the safety report as a whole, I would like to say that there is nothing to dramatize, but nothing to please. It contains some of the facts that have already been mentioned, some of which are quite pleasing in my area. I would also like to say on this occasion that I really do maintain a very intensive and constructive cooperation with Mr Sobotka from the interior. We form a very, very constructive safety axis. And whenever there are problems, I believe we will react together and quickly, as in the previous year, in the area of the addiction law. But let me just point out a few points: For the first time, we have a trend towards shortening the duration of the proceedings. I'm very happy. I know that we are not yet quite the target, but for the first time more or less is increasing as far as the duration of the procedure is concerned, the number that indicates that on average the duration of the procedures is no longer increasing, but is declining. That's a good thing, too. We also have some very encouraging increases, a really huge increase in confiscation and decay, over 60 percent in confiscation and 38 percent in the event of default, i.e. in the case of confiscation, simplified, from delicately acquired assets. This is certainly also due to the fact that we have done a great deal in the field of prosecutors in order to improve training and also the structures in such a way that the prosecutors also have the opportunity to access contaminated assets relatively quickly. We have also said gratifying figures in the distribution procedures, about a success rate of 81 percent, roughly. That too is quite pleasing. Of course, we also have areas where I would like to say once again: There's nothing to dramatize, but there's nothing to be beautiful either. Yes, in 2015, we had the highest level of condemned foreign nationals with 40.2 percent. It's a high value. Overall, the number of convictions decreased by 2.6 percent, but foreign convicts still have an increase of 5.3 percent. There is no reason to dramatize it, but also no reason to embarrass it. You just have to see it, and you have to see it – and I wanted to see it well understood as an answer to some of the things that have been said here –: We actually have significantly more than 50 percent of foreign nationals in the detention centre. That's what our law enforcement officers really call for. These are extreme requirements to which they are exposed. I would also like to say at this point that we are particularly obliged to thank the judicial officers in this area because they are, in part, very, very hard demands, in particular, this was the case in conjunction with the almost 400 suspects for the crime of the tow, which suddenly had to be detained in a relatively short time. And if you think about it, I'm just saying it roughly: We have a total detention capacity of just under 9 000 prisoners, and 400 already make up something. And there it is really only the constructive work of the judicial guards, especially in Eisenstadt, that we have been able to cope with this difficult situation. In total, we have a high level of prisoners, but at least at the moment we have not completely reached the highest level in 2007. We must already see that there are difficulties to deal with. As has been said so far, this has really been an excellent way of dealing with the judiciary. But there are also increases in areas which are very unpleasant. We have seen a marked increase in aggression against judicial guards. This has also moved me to propose an increase in the threat of punishment for the criminal attacks against officials, against executives, and I think that will also be feasible. I'm just saying why: In the event of a violent attack against executive organs, we have a criminal threat under § 270 StGB of a maximum of six months. If there's an injury, and if it's still so low, we'll have a penance threat of up to three years. The relationship doesn't fit here. It must be borne in mind that we also had to improve protective equipment for judicial guards. That's what we've done, we're doing it all the time. I think it would be useful to seek to punish violence against officials as such, and therefore we want to proceed with an increase in the threat of punishment. I was only in hospital last week with a law enforcement officer who was injured by such an aggression act. I think we are really guilty of our judicial guards that we are doing everything we can to protect them accordingly and thereby to appreciate what they are doing for us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, with representatives of the SPÖ, as well as with Mr Lausch and Mr Zinggl.]] After all, they hold their heads for us every day, as do the police, so we should make the right improvements here. At one point I wanted to say something. Of course, it must be seen – and this is also true – that of the foreign nationals who are detained are relatively many, more than one would suspect, from EU countries or from countries which are candidate countries. All in all, now related to total detention capacity, are almost 10 percent. That's not little! That is why – and I wanted to say that about what Mr Schrangl has said – we are working intensively just this year to allow the transfer to be made for the purpose of taking over the execution of the sentence. Within the EU there is a corresponding legal basis for this. We have significant increases here this year. This is a bit complicated, a bit laborious, but we have managed to achieve very good success with those EU countries that are affected. These are very well-known figures on which we are dealing. It is not until this morning that I had a conversation with my colleagues from Nigeria, so we are really trying at all levels. Serbia is also to be called a highly qualified candidate. We have significant numbers of nationals from these countries, and if there is a possibility – and it is not always possible – we would like to make use of this alternative of the transfer for the purpose of criminal execution in the home country. We will continue to do so. We will continue to make an intensive effort to do so. One thing, perhaps, in this context: Yes, we've got new stations for judicial guards, a total of 280. But – and that is what I want to say in order to raise the understanding of this –: We have not been able to occupy everyone so far, because there were too few suitable interests. That is why, if you allow, I would also like to take the opportunity to advertise this profession. It is a difficult and strenuous profession - the honourable Member Lausch knows that he has also exercised this profession in the past - but ultimately it is a very high-quality educational task, which is why there are also high requirements. So: We can still need candidates! Why am I saying this? – Here this advertising costs nothing, and as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary has traditionally no advertising budget and no advertising budget. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] We don't have that, we won't do it in the future. However, we are still looking for suitable aspirants for the high-quality profession of the judicial guard. In this way I wanted to make this public. One last thing about what Mr Pendl said – that was quite right, dear Otto, you're right: It must be noted that the relationship between the threats of crime between violent offences on the one hand and property crimes on the other, is reasonable, because what is done by violent offences can not really be compensated and remedied with money payments in the normal case. That's quite right. That's why we have – and that was the core of the whole – with the criminal-law reform, with 1. January 2016 has entered into force, ensuring that precisely this relationship has reasonably moved towards higher threats of criminal offences and crimes against personal values, against intangible values, intensifications in sexual criminal law, cyber-mobbing, whatever is involved, and, on the other hand, there are lower threats of criminal offences for pure property offences where no violence is at stake. That's what we did. As I said, she's with 1. In January 2016, it was not yet able to have an impact in the 2015 Security Report. However, I am convinced that we will remember this in the next safety report. In other areas, I expect less encouraging developments, but in principle this is entirely correct, and we have agreed. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12326	Thank you, Minister of State. No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution of the orderly Lasar, Dr. Rosenkranz and other Members of Parliament on the levy for executive officials. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. [[14:45:25]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the report of the Federal Government on the Open Innovation Strategy for Austria, based on the resolution of the National Council of 7 December 1990 on the European Union's action programme for the development of the European Union in the field of research and technological development. July 2015, 99/E XXV.GP (III-292/1285 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12386	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12413	Mr President. Estimated Mr Mahrer State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What every mobile phone can do today was still a huge challenge for mankind over 300 years ago, namely to determine its own location. This was a very, very difficult challenge for high sea navigation, which was hardly to be solved, namely to know exactly where one is geographically located. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] The colleague, Fekter, is well aware of this. The determination of latitude was not a problem, one could well understand this due to the sun's position. At the longitude there was a technical difficulty, which was not soluble at the time. Since we often had to sail for weeks, this has not only had serious economic consequences, but, in the worst case, it has, unfortunately, also led to death victims, because we ran up somewhere. When a British fleet was known at the beginning of 1700 and many British people died, the British Parliament then responded and said: We need a solution! This solution was something completely new, a completely new approach from which, I believe, we can learn a lot more today. The most famous scientists at the time simply did not find a solution, even the famous Sir Isaac Newton sought the solution in the field of astronomy. Then they said: We look at the knowledge, the talents, the experience of the entire population. The huge sum of 20 000 pounds has been drawn up and the population has been asked to participate and find solutions. The solution did not find an extremely well-known scientist, but a simple carpenter. He developed a watch that was so accurate, with such a slight deviation that if one knew the starting point, a port, it was also able to determine the longitude afterwards. What I have tried to describe here, what took place at the beginning of the first industrial revolution, is taking place today with entirely new possibilities in the age of digitization. I believe that this is an approach we are taking in Austria. We need a wealth of urgent needs. We will never be able to score with the cheapest workers in Austria, with the worst social standards or with the lowest environmental standards, but only with the best ideas, with the best trained people. The common goal of the Federal Government – and I should also like to thank all the colleagues here in Parliament who have initiated this Open Innovation Strategy – is that we really try to bring together the best minds and to share science, politics, administration, civil society together with the economy in the solution process and to revive our innovation landscape together. There are a number of measures, a total of 14 measures, which can also be read on opennovation.gv.at. I would just like to give a few examples: This starts in experimental rooms, in innovation laboratories, where real people, whether young or old, come together from a wide range of fields, whether from the field of crafts or science, bring together their experiences and work on new solutions. We already want to force the joy of technology in kindergarten age, school age, technology. These are exactly the approaches that we have taken. There should be a possibility of really working together on these projects, as we have done a lot of things. By 2025, we want to be truly internationally known in this area as an innovative country, which also uses the potential of the population. A warm thanks, above all, to all the people who have joined in the field of the process who have contributed to the creation of the Open Innovation Strategy. It is now up to all of us and above all to the population, the economy, civil society, science, administration and politics to fulfil this open innovation strategy together with life.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12475	Mrs Himmelbauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12496	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I am also pleased that we are able to deal with today's initiative by the Government, the Secretary of State and the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, but above all in Parliament here in plenary. Prior to – that has already been said by Mr Kucher – is an open process that has enabled all interested parties to participate via a platform, whether digital or analogue, in order to jointly develop an open innovation strategy, which has also been evaluated and developed directly through this open approach. I believe that the Open Innovation Strategy is both a commitment to drive innovation forward in Austria, to face an open innovation system, and at the same time a catalogue of measures to promote this open innovation system. It is an incentive that we can give ourselves to take advantage of it while at the same time creating a climate of innovation that makes out of outsiders and shows that there is in us all creative potential, which can offer added value in one area or another. There are good examples for this, and Philip Kucher has also brought very special examples. Maybe we should. But don't go that far, because especially in Austria, a lot is happening in the scientific field with the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute, but also in the economic field, because here social media platforms offer many companies the opportunity to share their customers in product development, in the development of services, but we ourselves already use such systems in the administration. It simply shows that the integration of a broad community can lead to a positive development, generate new products and bring new solutions; that is, a broad community, which may consist of other scientific disciplines, other economic sectors or different levels of administration, but also from citizens, from customers, from consumers who can simply bring their views. We know it ourselves when we say: We are bringing a third party to really get a new view, a new approach, and perhaps answers that we have not thought of before. I believe that this has created a lot of things. BMVIT has already taken a first step and created its own platform, which shows exactly these Austrian projects that have been created in recent weeks and months. One of the important issues I would like to address in this strategy is the topic of innovation. We must create, promote and at the same time generate a climate for this. We must start very early, that is also the strategy; that is, also in the school sector. I do not mean, however, that we can bring children to the stage of innovation, but I believe that they are already bringing it – children want to discover the world, they want to experiment, they just want to get to know something new. One must accompany them along this path, give them a tool, and at the same time take the pedagogists by the hand and lead them on this path as well. Moreover, of course, this enthusiasm for discovering new things should be preserved for her later life. I believe that this is an important point that we can bring into the school field. Today is the day of inventors. This day may not have the same significance as many other days of the theme, but I believe it must be in our political interest to promote and support those who act creatively, the fumbling, experimenting and engaging in, who simply have the courage to drive their own ideas forward, to push forward changes. That is why I am pleased that today for the first time the “state price patent” will be handed over. This is a way to get a great initiative to invent inventors in front of the curtain. Yesterday, a large package of measures was decided in the Council of Ministers to support research, technology and start-ups, namely some measures already relating to the Open Innovation Strategy, the financial provision of research-promoting agencies such as FFG or FWF and, of course, research and development infrastructure in the field of science and economics. You see, innovation is very important. It is also important for us as a nation because it secures prosperity. It is necessary to promote innovation in order to be at the forefront of global competition, because it creates and secures jobs, and it also improves our living conditions. I come to the conclusion and I would like to sum up that this strategy is, as a whole, quite good and also has an exemplary effect on the development processes. The aim is to ensure that this can take place in a large public process, and that it is scrambled with sensible measures, and that it is now implemented. I should like to join with the thanks of my previous speaker: On the one hand, he goes to the members of the government who have promoted and supported this process, on the other hand to all my colleagues in the FIT Committee, who have been very active in this and have brought their ideas into this public process. I am pleased if we will be holding a big presentation of the Open Innovation Strategy here in Parliament in the next few weeks. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12574	Ladies and gentlemen! I come back to the speech on the Rules of Procedure of Mr Dr Pilz. I do not yet have the Stenographical Protocol, but I have the confirmation that the word “student” has actually fallen, and I give Mr Walter Rosenkranz a call for order for it. Mr Oellinger, you have the concept of a political group: It is used. – I ask you not to do so in the future. The next item is the speech by Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger. I will have to interrupt your speech at 3 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12610	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Open Innovation Strategy of the Federal Government – I try to accommodate it before 3 p.m. What's this about? – Innovation: Firstly, it is undisputed that Austria has neither access to the sea nor natural resources. Secondly, I believe it is also undisputed that there is a chain of correlation between education, research, innovation in connection with the economy, competitiveness, economic success and, ultimately, employment. That is, the importance of innovation in research and innovation in this chain is a big one. That is why this initiative is very welcome, and we liberals will vote in favour of this item on the agenda. It is also praiseful to mention the entire procedure from the motion for a resolution to this resolution. This is not always a matter of course either, it is rather the exception, so here explicitly a thanks to the liberals for this work. So far, so good, but of course you also have to critically question one or another in this context. We now have a strategy, a concept, which is certainly the lightest step in this overall connex. The implementation and implementation of this strategy is the difficult step. Indeed, in the rarest cases, strategies fail in conception, but in the phase of change. the implementation and implementation of the programme. Here we will, as it were, look closely at the government. There are conditions or points with which we are not very forward-looking when we move into the downfalls of reality. That is what I mean now, the basis that is basically necessary for this strategy. We have been experiencing for years the announcement that the research quota target of 4 percent has now been reduced to 3.76 percent. However, in accordance with the Research and Technology Development Council and the Science Council, we already know that this is not possible. The government is also always talking about the 2-percent quota for the tertiary sector, which will not be reachable. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The government has been promising a research funding law since 2009, which still does not exist. The government promises the research billion, but only starting from the year – in small parts – 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020; so very, very far away. This is the very prominent basis, which is the reality that we would need in itself for the implementation of these points, as the basis for this innovation strategy. As said, the strategy is basically good, showing a way forward, is actually the expansion of the triple Helix approach of Harvard University, which says: Create areas of encounter between science, economy and politics. There is an extension to the so-called Quadruple Helix approach, namely through the involvement of civil society. This is a good approach, here innovation is put on a very broad basis. Mr Kucher mentioned an example of the success potential and probability of this approach. That's why: Creating an innovation culture, involving as much as possible...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12655	Deputies! I must draw your attention to the fact that I am now going to interrupt the sitting to call on the brief debate on the reply to the question. Either bring You have one last sentence, or I will give you the floor after the short debate. – How do you want it?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12673	Here I take, please, the version with the final sentence. My final sentence in this sense: Good step. We will follow this critically, in particular with regard to implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12701	I would like to thank you very much, honourable Member. So I'm going to interrupt the negotiations on the 2nd. Point of the day-and-day arrangement. [[15:01:07]] Short debate on the reply to the question 9549/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12725	We come to conduct the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy with the order number 9549/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. The Federal Minister, whom I very much welcome, is also in our midst. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Brunner. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12761	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I would like to start by commenting on current climate change events and starting with the positive. Last Friday, 4th. November 2016, the first globally binding climate agreement entered into force. It is so important to me to say that because it is really a historic moment; it is a holiday that is perhaps considered the greatest holiday in the history of humanity, because we have succeeded in laying the foundation for securing our livelihoods. This is something special: For the first time in history, all the states of this earth have become aware of climate protection, are involved in this climate agreement and have also legally committed themselves on last Friday to implementing the objectives of this climate agreement. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] Today, many may ask themselves the question – and I would like to address it as well: What is the meaning of developments in the United States' domestic policy? What does this mean for the climate agreement? We know that the newly elected U.S. President Donald Trump does not believe in climate change so much, we say it that way. This is of course a cause for concern, and I fear that it can damage climate change. But one thing is clear: He cannot renegotiate the climate agreement, the climate agreement stands! He can't get out of this climate agreement in the next four years either. The climate agreement has been negotiated so well and so cleverly that it also survives politically unstable situations. As a result of clauses in the Treaty, an exit in the next four years is not possible for any country. If Donald Trump does this after a three-year period, if you can do so, it will no longer be effective in his term of office, and a new President or a new President could join this agreement again. The climate agreement itself is therefore not at risk, and the implementation of the climate agreement will, of course, be more difficult in the US, since we will have to fight. But that is why we also have to fight in Austria, because our Federal Government has not yet put in place any climate action since the decision of the climate agreement in Paris last year. What is available is a so-called integrated energy and climate strategy that is being developed. I think we all know them from the committees. It is the reason why proposals coming from Parliament are adjourned. I do not want to criticise the fact that an energy and climate strategy is being made. I think it is very important that we make an energy and climate strategy. We need a strategy to achieve the objectives of this climate agreement. Once again, it means that by 2050 we will live, produce and move on without fossil energies, without coal, without oil and without natural gas. That means a great transformation, that's a big challenge, but if we do it now, a much bigger chance. We certainly need a strategy. We need to consider how we deal with some of thematic areas, for example the changeover to industry. There are still some questions to this effect at the moment. But the key to such a strategy is – and that was also said to us in the survey we have carried out here in Parliament –: I can only achieve the goals if I ask the right questions. Instead of questioning climate change targets, as was the case in the Green Paper, we have to ask ourselves questions such as: How do we create decarbonisation by 2050? What solutions are there for this? There was an event in Linz a few weeks ago, which included you, but also other ministers involved, but welcome statements. However, there was no way to get an answer from a political person to the specific questions asked by experts. Experts who are involved do not know what exactly happens with their expertise. We in this house don't know. I have made a request to all the ministries involved – these are not just you, but also others – who are just about to question: What are the objectives of this climate strategy? What greenhouse gas reductions are Austria confessing? How do the contributions of experts involve? We too, like many who are involved in this strategy, have not received sufficient answers. That is why I would like to discuss this again, because now for us and for all those who listen and who are interested in this energy strategy, it is also the opportunity to get answers. I would like to address some of the issues that have remained open, which relate to what quantifiable targets regarding greenhouse gas reduction will really include in the strategy, what concrete implementation measures will actually be included and how the contributions actually involve. These were the questions I asked you about the White Paper. They have not been answered or only referred to the ongoing process. Mr Energieminister, I would ask you to answer these questions today to us and all Austrians. The same applies to the questions I have raised as a final product, to the energy and climate strategy, which is the real objective of this strategy. I have received an answer to this, but the Paris climate agreement does not appear in this answer. Nothing bad, Mr Minister, but in times like this – we have a globally binding climate agreement – can only be the goal of implementing the objectives of the climate agreement. This means that 2050 Austria is free of coal, oil and natural gas. This is so important because we can only find the answers we are looking for if this objective is also clearly defined. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like a clear answer from you today, Mr Vice-Chancellor: Is it the objective of the Austrian Federal Government to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement, yes or no? Will the energy and climate strategy focus on this objective? Will this be clearly enshrined in this strategy? What politically quantifiable objectives will be derived from it? – Answers to all these questions are still missing. I have also received no answer from you to what greenhouse gas reduction targets Austria should set itself. There is only one reference to the answer given by the Ministry of the Environment. I would also like to hear from you what are Austria's objectives here, because I think we need to be very clear. regulations, clear framework conditions. This should also be your concern as Minister of Economic Affairs. Just as we now see it going on and on, that the energy strategy is just there to postpone measures that we have proposed, for which we no longer need strategy, such as the eco electricity law, such as an eco-social tax reform, simply, that is not going to happen, that is misleading the population. We want very clear statements from this energy strategy, but we also want climate protection in Austria to get under way now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No one understands why biogas plants now have to lock down, why wind companies have to release workers – I get daily calls – and that only because there is no agreement and no will to act in this House and obviously not with the Federal Government. I call on you to finally get in the way of action now and, in addition to this energy strategy, to put in place measures. The eco electricity law is very, very urgently necessary. There are many other proposals that we have on the table. The Paris climate agreement, and I am firmly convinced of that, is a huge opportunity for Austria. No other country on this earth is as good as we are. Take advantage of this opportunity, we're working together here! Let us also give people hope when it comes to bringing this joint start-up project into operation! No other country can do this as well as we do, but we have to act now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12872	Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner is next spoken. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e12893	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The climate and energy issue is very important to us. I'd like to presend: What is asked about questions is also important to us. There are also answers to it, and these you have also received in the answer to the question, only you simply need to understand what a process is and that it makes no sense before the process has been completed to have answered the respective questions in all clarity. Otherwise, I do not need to bring the entire climate and energy strategy into the process and lead it in if all the questions that are now asking have already been answered. Then the process would be unnecessary. [[Abg. Brunner: But I have to know the target before!]] I can explain it to you a little more popular by means of another example: If the question arises whether you are driving better by car or by train to Linz, and this question is not yet clearly decided, but you already want to know how in the train in which section the numbering is and how in the food car the menu looks, then you cannot answer it because the first question has not been answered. [[Abg. Brunner: But I need to know where I'm going!]] So I would ask you to just see the system, and I can explain it to you. I can also tell you that we do not start when the climate and energy strategy is finished as a project, but that the implementations have been running for a long time, that the implementations are also in principle correct and that the changeovers beyond the years 2020, 2030 to 2050, in a congruent way and in the same direction lead exactly what we have sought from the principle and also implement in detail. [[Abg. Brunner: But that's the goal!]] What's that? – First of all: What the goal or motivation is to start a climate and energy strategy, I am going to be in accordance with you. There are certain topics such as global warming. It is an obligation for the Community of States to do something about it and to limit global warming, not to seek the 2-degree objective, but even to set a 1.5-degree target and, in this context, to implement various measures, including, as decided in Paris last year, to get out of the fossil energy sector as far as possible by 2050, but also to create a global framework for it. So there is a commitment that, as you have mentioned, most states have also perceived and supported. Even the United States has ratified. Therefore, the original effort of our own unity, namely the European Union, to do so, is now also the status of the other nations. A broader process has therefore been initiated. We have now also made certain inputs in the EU in numbers which help to meet precisely these objectives, such as the climate and energy targets by 2030 at the level of the European Union, which were previously decided, namely a 40 percent reduction in CO2. We have also received the corresponding implementation or the proposal for Austria in these weeks, i.e. the Burden Sharing of the individual states. In concrete terms, it is 36 percent for Austria, but this also needs to be negotiated in detail. The second is not a break down, but an indicative objective at the level of the European Community: 27 percent renewable energy across the EU and at least 27 percent energy efficiency across the EU. All of these are numerous, so quantified targets. We then – as a result – set the course in the context of an integrated climate and energy strategy in Austria. Climate and energy strategy in Austria means that beyond the previous energy strategy, we also integrate the climate objectives. It's new. We have also adopted an approach which includes not only the Ministry of Energy but also the environment. We have also involved the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Infrastructure, as we are also concerned with social implications. I can tell you what the process is about, the European Union, the Commission, described this process, as we have put it up, as an example, namely the inclusion of the other stakeholders, of orientation in general and of objectives. It is therefore a truly broad-ranging but also profound discussion process. We have some sort of target square as a guideline. If you formulate so salopp and ask if the goal of full fossil energy exit is perceived, you must also note the following, Mrs Brunner: We also have a company, that is, OMV, which, as the leading company in Austria, has to achieve this change in the field with several thousand employees. [[Abg. Brunner: Exactly!]] You can't just say they're getting off, they're doing something else! [[Abg. Brunner: But that's exactly what we have to deal with!]] That is why we also need appropriate, right framework conditions. [[Abg. Brunner: That's what I mean, that we need a strategy for that!]] We've set a target square. First: Sustainability – we also agree relatively – through the expansion of renewable energies. In the context of renewable energies, it would be a different subject to name the new eco electricity legislative novels. The government programme states what biomass and biogas are going on, according to the following: Survivors should be supported accordingly. With the others, where it simply doesn't count, you have to find another solution. We will still have to discuss this in the next few days, because, of course, I am of course of your opinion that companies also need to be helped. We have forced energy efficiency to such an extent that it has brought us resistance to the plants, according to the motto: Do we need that at all? I tell you – and I am also on the joint procedure – that: Yeah, we need that! This is important, because sometimes energy may get more expensive and then I need an efficient way of dealing with input and output. We have also taken back the bureaucracy as far as possible. But in the final effect, this is a really direction-setting step – in contrast to other states. They have painted the target on other measures and said: Complete hit. On the other hand, we have made a real effort to go into detail. We have been highly criticized by the economy for this, but now the economy has partly understood it, because it is considered to be useful. [[Abg. Brunner: And now destroyed by the Chamber of Commerce!]] Secondly, security of supply. This is one of our main problems. If I now have such distortions in the energy market that prices are actually going down and nowhere will be invested, especially in the field of hydropower, we will eventually be missing in the field of security of supply of electricity and electricity generation. That's why one of our main tasks is there. We can only support here and there when it comes to permits, citizens' movements and others. [[Calls to the Greens.]] - Not like that. It is, of course, always called for the use of renewable energies and we should ensure security of supply, but when it comes to concrete projects, there are objections. [[Abg. Brunner: But now we don't go on that track!]] Third point: We need competitiveness. Quite clearly, we cannot set carbon leakage and others in motion now if the EU is a pioneer on its own. That is where the others also have to go, and that is what is happening in the meantime. The fourth point is programmability. We also need appropriate conditions which households can afford, but also the economy. In general, we have a major problem, which is the single electricity price zone. That's what Acer decided against us. We must somehow see that we are going through the rounds tolerably and that no God knows how high price increases we cannot afford. In fact, in order not to exceed my time, I am already in the process. I have spoken about it: The process we have started is not dictated by us anywhere where we have written down our objectives, but it has been internationally renowned agencies that we have involved. These have produced a Green Paper and are now working through a White Paper to the real strategy. Now we are accused of – by you, by others – there would be no quantifiable goals. It is the essence of a bottom-up process, but of course also part of the EU's requirements that we have such objectives. We will have exactly this clarification. The second is: I was, in contrast to others, also at the Stakeholder process on the 18th. October, I think, is present in Linz. This was a very good process, where very critical NGOs organisations have also commented on this, because we have also addressed the crucial issues. There are questions which were not at all as pleasant to us politically at present, such as the question: Are we making a tax reform towards the eco? So: Eco tax reform – how and under what conditions is this possible? This has happened to almost all entries and comments; in total, it was around 10,000. That's exactly what we're going to deal with. Nothing will be kept silent. Therefore, at the end of the process, the answers to all your questions that you now want to answer will also be legible. But I also refuse, in the sense of the protection of the individual participants, that I now ex cathedra or out of function tell you: That's how it will be! Why? – Then the others would blame me: What did you start the process for? What have we put forth effort for? – And then it’s not comprehensible or justament somewhere else inside. Therefore: It will not all be fulfilled, but it will be a widest possible process to have something really presentable. That is why I think: We will still talk about the open questions, i.e. eco electricity law, small and large novels. This will be difficult enough because there are different interests at all levels. But the process is well set up, and I'm not supposed to think we'd missed anything, or anything else. Look They're big nations like Germany or France to: These are not as far as we are at Weitem! From the basic point of view, what we have done to laws, what we have put into action, is basically right. And if this is in principle right, we need to see that the differences beyond 2030, even by 2050, are exactly the same direction and are compatible, consistent and different. In conclusion, from my point of view: The discussion of this question answer – I like to discuss it because there is an opportunity to stress it – would not have been necessary from this point of view because you and the others are familiar with the process. [[Abg. Brunner: Yes! Because it is used every time to postpone any action!]] Again, Mrs Brunner: It is a beautiful and nice gesture of yours if you want to play the theme to the greens, so to speak; agree. But that is not necessary in the matter, from the information, from the process! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13052	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time is now 5 minutes. Mr Katzian, you are the next to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13076	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! I would like to go into the process which has now been discussed at the end. I think we will continue to look at this process. Hehn To criticise now seemed to me personally too early. As far as transparency is concerned, at least from my point of view, it is already very clear how it will continue. The entries made within the framework of the online consultation have now been published; there are over 1 100 pages that can be read. This input is supplemented by the results of the six expert groups. Then, in fact, the difficult part of making all these proposals and assessments a solid concept, a concept that takes into account, on the one hand, the latest developments – Paris et cetera – and, on the other, the requirements of the government programme. In this is formulated: “Inclusion of all relevant stakeholders”, “Arrest Austria for Energy Policy Challenges”, “Increasing economic and social impacts”, “Proactive use of opportunities for households and domestic businesses”. – This is the government programme, and I assume that this is also the guideline. I would like to make a comment on the process, also in view of the fact that the last attempt at political anchoring of an energy strategy was not very successful in my view, because at the end of the day the political leaders – that is Parliament – were not concerned with it. That is why I am very glad that it is planned that this process, the energy strategy, should be decided in the Council of Ministers and that Parliament will also be involved; I think this is urgently necessary. We may also be able to make an appointment with all the energy speakers before the decision is taken at an appropriate time, because this may also help us in the negotiation process. But what is still open to me and what we still need to discuss is also the question of how to take the federal states along in this process. We know that there are a number of design options – for example, in the area of heating and heat from the construction regulations – also in the federal states. In my view, it would be important to take the federal states in such a way as to ensure that what we define in action works accordingly in implementation. In terms of content, of course, it is a matter of putting the cornerstones in place. We have the existing EU targets for 2030, which have already been pointed out, for example with regard to the national objective of CO2 savings. That's where it takes the corresponding details. The Treaty of Paris has been mentioned. We must define politically at what speed and in what way we are going together. I believe that this is a matter of moving forward in steps and also of ensuring that as many as possible can be taken along this path. In concrete terms, I would like to address district heating. This is an important investment in climate-friendly energy provision. Mr Federal Minister, we have discussed this several times: The promotion for district heating expansion is de facto reduced to zero, although district heating is very important especially in urban areas for the achievement of climate targets. We have a funding backlog of over €100 million, and I believe that important projects will remain on the track. We need an efficient and targeted form in promoting green electricity. It is also about the fact that the debate is at the moment a little overburdened by the question of biogas installations and excessive demands that are being made here. I think you should focus on the essentials. The issue of energy efficiency is very important. I have often taken the opportunity to speak here in the house on this subject. We have long and intensively reached a result – a good result, as I mean. In retrospect, however, I must note that things have been made possible through the directive regulation for the monitoring body, which were definitely not within the meaning of the talks and definitely not within the meaning of the legislator and the decisions of this energy efficiency law, so that we urgently need a revolution, either by implementing a fundamental novel of the directive regulation, or, if it does not go differently, by amending the law. The course could also be set in the direction of 2030. There's a lot to do, we'll pack it together! All of us good!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13157	The next item is the speech by Mr Hoefinger. - Please. [[Abg. Katzian speaks to Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] – Mr Katzian, I have already asked the next speaker to speak. Please, Mr Höfinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13188	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is an issue that we have been discussing for some time now, and in Austria we have been well placed for some time in terms of the development of renewable energies. A long time before Paris, there has been a good development in the various sectors. Why? – Because we have excellent starting points in Austria as regards the energy mix, whether it is wind, water, renewable energies in the renewable sector or much more. This really important mix has begun to rise constantly, because there are wind peaks again and again and we have the storage possibility in the hydropower and much more in order to be able to compensate for it and to operate a single market. This is something very important with regard to the precautionary and precautionary principle. Paris itself has made a significant contribution to this with the climate conference. In fact, it was a major international breakthrough, which was achieved with the principle of full decarbonisation, which, as has already been mentioned, means that in a few decades, all coal, oil and natural gas would come out completely. This is an ambitious goal, which, I believe, we will also pursue with Elan in Austria, because we also see opportunities in it. That is why Austria is also one of the first three countries in Europe to ratify this Treaty. At the same time, Federal Minister Rupprechter, as the Minister for the Environment at European level, has already launched an initiative on the European Energy Change Treaty. This one has found great sympathy and approval. The purpose of this European energy transition treaty is to increase the use of renewable energy, but also to take into account energy efficiency and, of course, energy savings throughout the sector. The energy transition contract therefore stands on the three pillars of renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy saving in order to be able to implement the objectives we have been set. [[Abg. Brunner: What measures have we proposed in Austria? Or implemented?]] As regards Austria and the ongoing preparations for this integrated energy and climate strategy: Mr. Vice-Chancellor has very detailed and well outlined why and how this process was set up. I think that if you implement a political process, there is nothing about the involvement of the general population, the experts, all those who are interested in it. This is happening, and I know the discussion that we are constantly discussing, among other things, in the Committee, about why some individual measures have not already been put in place. I explain it again: because it is a complex, compact system that is interfering. And it should be weighed together: What do we put first? Do we also protect the location? How do we achieve this first of all some kind of climate objective? There was a good meeting in Linz at the end of the year. It has taken place on October, during which this consultation phase and the process have also been discussed publicly. Please correct me if it was different, but I have not seen any of you here in Linz! - Yes, there was someone there. [[Abg. Brunner: But there was someone there!]] That's right, I was there, too. Of all you here today, including the Greens, there was not a single representative with me. I'm really sorry. [[Abg. Brunner: We brought ourselves into this process!]] I am really sorry not to be involved in this public process, then to sit here and say: We are the ones who want to push forward or move forward! and then to miss out on such an important event. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These were, by the way, excellent statements and statements, both by Mr Vice-Chancellor and by the other ministers present. It was very precise and concrete information that was made, including the announcement of the exit from oil as regards oil heating. I think that we are also on a concrete path with the federal states in this regard. Federal Minister Rupprechter has agreed with the federal states to advance the exit from oil both in the new building and in the boiler exchange. I think that is one of the most important and important measures. With regard to a Europe-wide CO2 tax or eco-tax on this issue, the Federal Minister and Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned it: This will also be discussed in this context, but it will also be agreed – not only in Austria but also throughout the European Union. In the meantime, there are also more and more concrete statements – I am thinking only of the statement made by Mr Rupprechter over the past few days – on this 100 million € package, which will become effective over the next two years in order to promote environmental support in the country in order to increase renewable energy or e-mobility over the next two years. I would ask you not to ignore that in this debate. For me, it is gratifying to hear that we get broad support as far as the novels of the Ecostrom Act are concerned. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] We are proud of this broad supply of energy that we have. This, Mr Katzian, includes the biogas plants in Austria, which do valuable work. We must not forget that they too have a value...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13255	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13270	provide or also serve to buffer biogas, because there is now also the possibility of feeding biogas, in order to promote mobility. In this respect, I also ask, as I have said, for concrete support. It is very, very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13303	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13324	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Yes, this item on the agenda, which is, so to speak, also about energy strategies, gives me the opportunity to express a free position on this issue as energy speakers in one sentence or another, using these 5 minutes. It has been mentioned by Mr Vice-Chancellor in part – for us, the central point is that every energy strategy has to move so to speak in a target triangle in which, of course, climate protection and sustainability are a goal, but where there is something like security of supply as a second goal and where there is something like competitiveness and liquefaction as a third goal. [[Abg. Brunner: But you pretend that this is a contradiction...!]] So this monocausal fixation to a goal you will not find in us liberals, but it is about – and we are, by the way, fully in line with the European Union, that is nothing but the target portfolio of the European Union – to make a corresponding climate policy within this triangle. That is to say, we want to set specific targets – especially in the areas of innovation, research – which lead to cost reductions in production per unit or increase efficiency. We now welcome the development of a government energy master plan. This gives legal certainty, that gives planningability, that gives planning security. This is also a very important point. We believe that the changeover to and expansion of renewable energy must always be made in line with the expansion of the available network capacities. You know exactly the unpleasant development that we now have with Germany or with the lifting of the common electricity price zone with Germany. There is at least once a notice, which is, of course, combatable. We hope and expect ourselves, of course, from the Bun-des-Government, or also from the regulatory authority, that this is – and that has already been announced – all the means available in the legal field. You know very well, the problem here is that in the north of Germany in particular the windwheel-ecoenergy has been expanded and not correspondingly a corresponding grid expansion has taken place, so that the energy had to search through Poland, the Czech Republic and so on for Austria and so on. Now, of course, Poland and the Czechs are overwhelmed when it comes to the stability of the networks. Again one point: Security of supply! What do I want to say? - That must be balanced! This development must be balanced and should not lead to such situations as we now have them, where, in the end, we may no longer benefit from the cross-border common electricity price zone with Germany. By the way, this is a bit strange access in the European context. We always hear that national borders and so on are to be dismantled. You also have to look at this differently. In this specific point, we believe that the electricity market is oriented at national borders and that this – and nothing else would be – is not necessarily compatible with the strategic objectives of the European Union, nor does it find the consent or understanding of our liberals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Within the framework of this triangle, it is natural to develop a clear commitment to energy autonomy and autarchy, a clear commitment to the topic of “more decentralized energy generation and such consumption than central”, rather decentralized, a clear commitment to regional networking, namely the various types of energy, i.e. electricity, district heating and gas, and, of course, a commitment to the expansion of renewable energy. Here we also have differentiated access: If I were to make a ranking, I'd say, Photovoltaics, wind energy, hydropower, a non-retainable yes. According to the experience of the last 15 years, we need to look at the whole area of biomass and the entire area of CHP funding. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] You'll probably have to adjust this one or the other.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13373	Next item is the report by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13394	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor, in your reply to the question, you write a sentence which I would like to quote: “Austria is a European country of presentation”. – I am a friend of figures, facts and facts, and if you read in the documents of the Federal Environment Agency, you can see: The facts are clearly against it. EU-wide greenhouse gases could be reduced by 24.4 percent from 1990 to today. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner:... Starting position, but do you know?- Oh, my God!]] In Austria it was 3.2 percent. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Because we had a high level!]] Portugal, Spain, Cyprus and Ireland are worse than Austria. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: This is unfair, your argumentation! Unbelievable!]] [[Abg. Brunner: What's wrong with you?]] [[Mr Rädler and Mr Pirklhuber.]] First point: Figures, figures and facts. Second point: Together with the State Secretary, they are responsible for business, innovation and new jobs. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: From zero to a hundred..., if you do nothing!]] What I don't understand: We Greens make you an offer, we say: Let us take great steps on this path of changing a society from one that benefits fossil energies to one that is focusing on sustainable energy use, and take the opportunities that lie on the streets on the labour market, which in the economy are in the innovation field! You don't see these huge opportunities, but you say: We have signed this, we stand by it, but now we are beginning to discuss what measures we are achieving our goal. Those who were present at the climate survey a few weeks ago have heard the following clear statements from science and experts: We have said everything, it is all researched, the means and paths lie on the table, the time of decision is there. [[Abg. Lopatka: It's never researched everything!]] The ÖVP is a party that always pretends to know where it goes, you just have to decide. But instead of deciding what to do by this bundle of measures that are on the table, you say: Let us make a discussion process that is basic democratic. That is quite nice, but this time is over for a long time, the time of implementation has come, and I would like to explain this on the basis of a few examples. The experts, even the Wifo, so not a green-and-green institution, have been saying for years: Finally, make an eco-social tax reform. Or the Minister of Life and the Environment says: The diesel privilege is obsolete. This is such a tiny little lever, but it will not be activated because Mr Schelling says he does not want to give up on these plus 400 million nets that he comes from tank tourism. Or: Oil heating is an outflow model, the Minister for the Environment has said in recent days and has added responsibility to the countries wherever it lies – but he does not perceive his own responsibility, which he has. [[Abg. Rädler: You've read it!]] That means we're in an absurd time: They are talking about competitiveness in the energy sector. We've never had such cheap oil, never so cheap electricity, and just in such a time you could use all the existing levers to defuse oil, to exploit fossil energy sources, to get out of coal, to get out of oil slowly. An eco-social tax reform has never been as easy to implement as it is now, where fossil energy sources and electricity are very cheap. That is, the party that likes to say: Let's do something, let's decide something! No, let's see! – The whole thing is now out in working groups, but we do not have that much time, from the basic democratic approach that the Greens support in themselves. We have the year 2016, we have clearly signed goals, and if we continue this way, we will not get on track. Mr Minister, I expect you to see the opportunities of the energy transition in the labour market and in the economic sector, that: They're not a braker, but one who says: If we need to go to Linz, it's not about deciding whether by train or car: There's only one transport to Linz, and that's the train.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13529	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13551	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We are talking about a certain strategy, and I would like to return to the words of Mr Höfinger, who criticizes all the other political groups because they were not present in Linz at the time. The only strategy we are adopting is the strategy of postponement in the committees, and that is the problem. [[Abg. Prince: Go, please!]] That's really the problem, and you don't need to be surprised if we don't go to Linz, because you don't think anything stupid is what we say anyway. [[Abg. Brunner: We made our proposals!]] – Let me make my remarks, then I will show you what has been postponed and what the strategy of the ruling parties looks like. In his speech, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Energy has also re-founded the word “must”. I now appeal to his courage to finally accept the opposition's proposals and not to appoint his members in the Group: Stop it, 'cause it's all stupid anyway. – In reality, it's not stupid, we know. Where is it missing here? – It is clear to me that the Green Paper, which is to become a White Paper, should become a strategy. It is still difficult to see where the concept is. The Green Paper is not a climate and energy strategy in the final effect. Interestingly, it does not have the right to do so either. The process up to the White Paper is, in our opinion, a pure chaos, and there are no reliable strategic approaches. I'd like to explain this now. First of all, what does it need? – The remaining bottlenecks in the power grid continue to be a problem, we know, and you know that, so the flexibility potentials are not exhausted at weitem, or electricity storage and gas storage are not taken into account here, and you know that too. There's no courage here. The second is precisely the EU-compliant eco-power reform with investment promotion after market premiums instead of feed-in tariffs. That is why something is missing here too, and there are enough starting points from our side as well. In the Green Paper: There are no ideas and framework conditions for innovative concepts. They are not available either, and we have made requests to do so. What happened? – They have been postponed, they have not even been discussed, and I think that this is the same approach as in the so-called immutation premium in biogas plants – something else is not at all; that is what is still happening – and we have been comforted for two years because it is supposed to be a strategy in work. It's this missing master plan. I've always criticized you for missing the plan, or you just rubbed it because it didn't fit you. Of course, this can also play a role in getting you into the delay mechanism. Our proposals and solutions are, of course,: The removal of fossil energy in the transport sector, the design of eco-electric production, which we have long seen to be EU-disciplinary. We need a roadmap or a development of economic opportunities through the energy transition and a tax system that meets the objective. All of this is missing, in my opinion. [[Call the ÖVP: What's new?]] [[Abg. Brunner:... our eco electricity promotion...!]] I should like to make another point: You mentioned the competitiveness, Mr Vice-Chancellor! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Right!]] The Board of Association Anzengruber once said he would like a real market, because price signals come from the market. In the energy sector, there are only incentives as a signal. – This is very crucial, we may have the wrong support approaches, perhaps we do not have a market at all. Let us therefore take part in your considerations in this regard. Let us really participate, clear out your drawers where, I believe, several strategies are already hidden, several master plans so that we can discuss them openly. I would ask the ruling parties once again to give us the opportunity to discuss this in the committees. [[Abg. Wheeler: To content!]] This delay mechanism is, in fact, symbolic of this standstill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13651	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13735	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, on the gallery and in front of the television. I think there have been enough climate change conferences, enough climate change targets, green papers, white papers, established, sent by the world. A group in Marrakech is currently in charge of consultation. I am now trying to bring a little bit of reality into this discussion with this heating material, because the problem we are pursuing is that we are discussing far away from reality and that all the agreements and intentions do not help if they are not implemented. And I think it can't be more obvious than looking at this import alone, this pointless transport, if you know that we have a reserve of 1.13 million solid metres of wood in Austria, in our domestic forests. Austria is one of the most wooded countries: We have 4 million hectares of forest, 47.5% of the state area is wooded – and we import heating material to Austria. I've mentioned it a few times: The action radius of wood with me in the Vöcklabruck district is the Ukrainian beech, daily 40 wagons. And in view of the agricultural cooperatives, Mr Rädler, I bought this heating material, not at the warehouse, but in a building market. [[pointing to the wood briquettes]] But that's where you get it. From Slovenia heating material is transported to Austria. I would like to know the pointless environmental pollution that arises from the point of view of which climate change is pointless. Perhaps this creates – unfortunately President Schultes is not here – our success export balances. [[Abg. Wheelers: Import, not export!]] Unfortunately, the Minister for the Environment and Life is not present today, he is currently chairman of the Alpine Convention, and if he is now famous in newspaper councils that since EU accession the agricultural and food exports have increased tenfold, then this little game becomes clearer every day. As we have correctly noted here, the number of farmers has fallen by 100 000 small and family farms. By my honor! – that was the slogan of the AMA – where does the raw material come from? And if we don't put off this senseless circular economy, this senseless circular transport, in order to create good balance sheets to freeze balance sheets, then all these climate agreements, all these climate protection decisions are quite primitive cosmetics. I should like to point out a very up-to-date example here. Mr. Rädler, you're mayor. And in my district of Vöcklabruck, the municipality of Timelkam is now, I very much appreciate it, almost neighbours, joined a climate alliance. Then there is the beautiful table: Klimabundnisgemeinde, as with the district capital Vöcklabruck, where the largest palm oil temple in Upper Austria is located – but I am still here. But in the community of Timelkam, which took place on 6 June. This spring, Energy AG closed down the hacking plant in the spring of November – so that we can talk a bit about reality, Minister of Economic Affairs. If we talk about life, I said when I started here in Parliament. And now we're alive. The FACC in Ried has planned the hacking plant with the excavator. The hacking plant in the case of fruit juice production in Upper Austria is shut down. On the posters and in advertising, the current becomes greener. There is even a supermarket that offers green electricity. With us in Upper Austria you know that, that's the left wire above, it's green. That's the green stream. Now we need to know what's going on. We were with Bavaria, with this delegation, in Berlin on the Reichstag. The Bavaria admit quite openly, Mr Lopatka has been an ear witness: They drive 45 percent nuclear power. And our head of state in Upper Austria regrets that the Czechs are approaching us with two new nuclear power plants, and, you know, Mr. Vice-Kanzler, with a new final warehouse. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] I do not want us to scandalize oil and gas here, because this is always better for me than nuclear power, because from there we really have to put pressure on our anchors, for our subsequent generations. And with this development, I just don't have anything to do with it. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Madam President. In the short term to the biogas addressed.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13782	Mr President, you still have time for a final sentence. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13797	Thank you. – In the second step, biogas is fine; when we process waste oils in biogas plants, when we process fertilisers produced in biogas plants by animals, that is okay. [[Abg. Kogler: Second step!]] But if biogas plants are the main competitors for the producing farmers and with the promotions pay increased rent contributions, then we have to consider this in principle. And that's why it's high time we got more practice involved in the discussion. I'll leave...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13829	Mr President, I must now draw your attention to the speaking time. [[Abg. Steinbichler: I deliberately abandon the subject of palm oil!]] The Rules of Procedure shall provide for five minutes of speaking time. You have to stick to it! - Thank you many times. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team for the Abg that left the speaker's desk. Steinbichler.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:56:54]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13864	So I take the negotiations on the 2nd. Agenda item again. Mrs Lichtenecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Madam Member, you have the floor. I'll set you six minutes of voluntary speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13889	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Mr Vice-Chancellor asked the question: Are you going to Linz by train or by car? – In the light of innovation progress, there will not only be these possibilities, but there will certainly be other options to how to get from A to B, and that is also good. This brings us to our Open Innovation Strategy in Austria. I think that very good work has been done, and I would like to thank the two responsible ministries, the employees, but also the political leaders for the work done. And I think it's A new quality of cooperation has also been an example of other areas, with the involvement of Parliament's work. Yes, with challenges we see ourselves to the satisfaction: The major issue of climate change has just been discussed in the short debate, but it is not just climate change, we are faced with challenges in the field of demographic development, with the challenge of the enormous speed of digitalisation. We face the challenge of the ultimateity of resources up to the challenges posed by migration movements. It is about finding appropriate solutions and answers. The question is how we get there. A big answer, of course, is to design the appropriate processes that generate innovations. One topic is, of course, to make these processes as open as possible, because the solutions will not only be technical in nature, but probably also organisational and social in nature. And this is also the characteristic of open innovation processes and also appropriate strategies. The pillars of such a strategy are, of course, dialogue and participation and transparency. That's their quality, and that's exactly how the corresponding solutions will work out. That is how we have experienced it in this process. Innovation, which is about renewal and progress, will also lead to further development and, above all, to a strengthening of diversity. I would like to draw on an example from the last Alpbach Forum, in which the Innovation Labs were led by the Technical Universities, where eight companies handed over questions to teams, and the quality of these teams was that they came from all disciplines. These were not just technicians, but students across the various fields of study. We then saw the next day – after working through these 24 hours, this process has expired – as the solutions have looked. They were very dedicated, very exciting, very stimulating. They also agreed that this work was very interdisciplinary, which is also what it is to run and advance open innovation processes. In the end, it's a cross-thinking, an out-of-the-box thinking, and in the solutions, above all, it's about overcoming appropriate boundaries and moving borders. At the end of this open innovation process and the strategy, the appropriate measures have been identified. I would just like to take a few of them, of which I believe they are actually an essential contribution to drive innovation and find solutions. One is the creation of open spaces for innovation and experimentation. We have great examples from the regions. For example, I just call the OTELOs, the open technology laboratories, or the “Building and running an open innovation platform for social/social innovation as a contribution to solving global challenges” – yes, that’s it! Let's get all the ideas in here! Let us see together what a solution this can be! – but also, of course, the topic of anchoring incentive mechanisms for research partnerships (...). These are areas that are certainly driving us forward in the invention of ideas and are pushing for the corresponding innovation dynamics. The measures are now on the table. The challenge is to implement the measures. This is a question of consequence, but above all also of courage: To move forward and to take in exactly the energy here. I believe that there is quite a form of dynamic in this area. To further contribute this dynamic to the implementation, I consider this to be the current challenge. In any case, we will be happy to support the further process and also these initiatives.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13958	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e13979	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot about the Open Innovation Strategy, and I would like to join in principle in the praise, which is particularly related to the process. I liked the fact that the content was already represented in the process and was tried out because it was an open innovation process – to write a strategy paper alone! – and it has never been in what we know politically: to see how such a strategy paper or working paper can come about. Nevertheless, we are still a country of declarations of intent in politics, but that is an extremely good statement of intent, which is a good strategy. What makes you happy is above all the spirit that comes with it. It is noted that in this area, especially in the two ministries involved, the will is to make real meters. But how do we come to implement it? – I would like to join with my previous speaker, as it is one of the areas of research, innovation and technology, where there is relatively little budget-neutral scope that could be exploited. It is an area that is always subject to financial under cover. In the end, having an open innovation strategy alone is not enough to achieve the result you would like. In fact, despite the lip recognitions that have been made in recent years, we have not gone further in the field of research and technology, but have fallen back into innovation rankings. We can also ask ourselves politically whether we really need the government in such strategies to this extent. Why must policy indicate how this has to work, if there is also the possibility to provide the players present in this area with financial resources so that they can be implemented themselves? It is also important, especially in the field of research and science, to see again and again that politics itself cannot shape science. We cannot conjure up innovation and research results politically. What we can do is create framework conditions and give as much freedom as possible so that we can also come to these innovations. As colleague Lichtenecker mentioned: The innovation labs in Alpbach were, I believe, a good example of how such a thing can look. It was also, I think, very nice for many participants to see how such innovation processes ultimately work, because they always like to talk about it. These are also beautiful keywords that you use – innovation, laboratory, that sounds all super modern – but how it feels when you're creative, and how you do it with the ambivalence that you don't know what comes out is another thing again. We need sufficient funding in this area. You can't do it otherwise. For example, if we look at the FWF that funds research in Austria, we must admit: If we want to get to a German or Swiss level, we have to double the budget. In the field of the Open Innovation Strategy, however, it is still completely open how this will happen in the next few years. Now the FWF gets a little more money, but that's still not enough. This is a policy area – and perhaps you can also criticise that NEOS are always always for savings. Yeah, we're for savings so you can put more money in here. We would like to have more money for research instead of for luxury pensions, party financing or banker federalism, which is available in Austria. But this requires more than just strategies. It really needs to be implemented in the design of the budget. That is why I shall now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14049	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14116	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Smart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14137	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my opinion, innovation is not a self-interest, but innovation is a contribution to ensuring growth – in the context of reading – in order to ultimately come to jobs from which people in our country can actually live, and to get to jobs that are actually safe on time. I would like to use our so-called Innovation Day Rules Point to achieve this, on the one hand, Federal Minister Mag. Jörg Leichtfried and on the other hand our State Secretary Mag. Dr. Harald Mahrerherzlich to congratulate the research package presented to the public yesterday. I think it is an important signal not only at the industrial location, but also at the research location Austria. I am also pleased that it has succeeded in clearly signaling that the Federal Government is on the one hand ready to take over additional public funds and on the other hand does not ignore the fact that private capital is also involved in this innovation process. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of Parliament coming from the south of Austria, I am very much in need today to say thank you for the success of the Silicon Austria project, which is particularly important for Styria, but also for Carinthia, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to give a clear signal to the electrical and electronic industries: We want to set up a conscious lead here to work together with the industry on the development of our industrial site! It is clear that this needs to be read throughout the context. In this respect, it is understandable that we build on the achievements in the field of applied research funding, evaluate the research premium and draw the relevant conclusions for further development due to the findings. Since we have a plenary session today, I would now like to congratulate the "State Patent" award, which is awarded by the Ministry of Infrastructure this evening – it has been pointed out by Mr Himmelbauer. Although we cannot participate because of the plenary session itself, the protection of intellectual property, in order to ultimately also create growth and to advance the development of the industrial site for safe jobs in Austria, is particularly important here too. Congratulations to BMVIT on the one hand and the Patent Office on the other! Good for tonight and once again cordial congratulations for the so-called research billions! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14189	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14210	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to add the following to the two previous speakers: I too am enthusiastic about the additional money that will flow into research in the coming years, in the foreseeable future, not in the distant future, as Dr. Kassinger has said. As early as 2018, in a good year, the FWF will receive about €70 million more annually. This is an increase of far more than 30 percent. It will have more than 100 million € in 2021 than in this year. These are huge sums with which you can accomplish a lot. This investment is extremely important especially in basic research, which is a very important driver and as far as innovation is concerned. The Austrian Academy of Sciences also receives € 40 million more. The same applies, as top research is also carried out there at a high level. With this, Mrs Gamon, I think your request, which has already been postponed in the Committee on Research, which you have now put back here in plenary, is more or less complete, because it is in fact much more money going into research. The research billion I wouldn't be like one, like Mag. Klug said that “so-called”, but seen as a real – spread over several years. On the topic of Open Innovation, which is under discussion today, I can add a biographical to Mr Kucher's beautiful historical anecdotes. For years, whenever it allowed the weather, I drove the wheel to my workplace. [[Abg. Lightenecker: A real greener!]] That was about 20 kilometers on the road. There would have been – and there is – a more beautiful path through meadows and forests, which is even a bit shorter, but which I could not drive because I lacked a corresponding sports equipment. So I looked forward to the invention of a mountain bike. It was then actually invented, unfortunately not in Austria, but in the USA, and came to us as a mountain bike. My wish dates exactly to the time when the Austrian bicycle industry, which was once a very renowned and good industry, was in the rapid decline. Perhaps Open Innovation could have helped that someone in this industry would have come up with the idea of producing a suitable mountain bike. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Walser.]] With this example, I would just like to say: If we really involve civil society in the innovation process – of course not only in the simple form that it passes on ideas, but also in the many complex forms that are possible today thanks to modern communication technologies – then there is indeed a real boost in the field of innovation – if not only the professional ones working for it, but all. There is, of course, a wealth of knowledge, ideas and creativity in the country, which can be raised in addition. This measure is common in other ways, with other methods, for a long time in large businesses, where one tries to raise the treasure of knowledge and the ideas of employees. We are now doing this on a broad front with Open Innovation. Within this process, for example, Open Access is very important, so that research results and available knowledge are provided very quickly and very easily digitally. All these processes are an important impulse towards more innovation. I agree with Mr Mag. Smart to: Innovation is never a main purpose, but always a means of making life better and Austria more prosperous, safer and a more viable country. This is a small step forward, and I congratulate all those who have contributed to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14253	The next item is the speech by Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14274	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus specifically on points 12 and 13 of this strategy – Mr Denke has just referred to it – that is, open access and open data. We now have this beautiful brochure, which contains many objectives, for example, that the FWF and the University should develop concepts. I would also like to concentrate a little on what this government can do. Open Access, Open Data refers not only to scientific data, to publications, but also to Open Government. We know that open access, i.e. free access to publications, is extremely important. Expenditure, which universities and especially libraries have for expensive journal articles, which make huge money, have increased immensely in recent years, and some universities say that they can no longer afford to do so in the medium term. That is why we need urgent action. But how does this look like what the government can do, for example, at Open Government? – There are such things as official secrecy and the possibility of citizens coming directly to data that they are interested in and can ask directly. But there's the last stand from the hearing a few weeks ago that all this is stocking. For example, as the head of the section has said, it should not be possible in the future – as it is at least planned – for citizens to actually get the data they want, as well as scientists. In the case of public tenders, for example, it is not foreseen that undertakings which win a tender or the prices at which they have won it will be published. Under this motto too, there would be a clear need for action by the government. Another example: How does it look with the release of the data for Statistics Austria? – I hear from very many scientists that despite the excellent work done by the competent statistical authority in Austria, they have problems getting to certain data because they lack resources and the legal framework. This is also an area of action that you could address, where you could do something directly for science and yourself, not only the institutions, the FWF and the universities outside, could contribute something. Another example: A year ago, we decided on the second-use right; unfortunately, only in a narrow-track version, although by both responsible ministries, both from the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Justice, the promise was that you would like to go a little further – this is mainly for the government party ÖVP. It has been massively blocked, and unfortunately we do not yet have this second-use right in full. So there's still a lot to do there. As a last point, I would like to share an idea, which concerns point 13 of the strategy, namely the IP strategy – IP, intellectual property, the issue of intellectual property – and there is the central word of this strategy “open”. Only: Up to the patents, this has not yet been discussed. There is a very large debate in the US on the fundamental question of whether patents are actually science-promoting. There is the partly absurd situation that some research groups can no longer afford to continue research because they have to buy the patent. Just like input: One might also consider strategies and concepts to go towards open patent. There is already the example of Tesla. The big car company has released all its patents for electric cars because they say there: If they were protected, nothing could be further developed in this area and the market of electric mobility would be restricted. These are my comments and proposals on how to deal with this strategy. As Mrs Lichtenecker has said, we welcome her in principle, but we welcome her. Paper must now also follow actions, and that is the clear order to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14331	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Vogl. The speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14353	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I think we can be proud that we are discussing an open innovation strategy here today, because the initiative was initiated by Parliament, and now we have a strategy. We are one of the first parliaments in Europe to discuss an open innovation strategy. That is, we are at the front of speed, we are on the front of the process, because this paper was also created in an open innovation strategy. I think that's something you're asking: Why are we doing that? One thing is clear: In the past, innovation was more likely to be for closed spaces, rather it took place in the development laboratory, which had been shut down. Why open up innovation at once? The reason is the: We have found that if we want to get faster and, as Mr Kucher described, we want to improve quality, make the participation process better. I believe that it is therefore important that we also use Open Innovation as a method. I am already right for colleagues who say that it is right and nice that we now have a paper, but of course that is not worth it if we do not implement it. There we can get along with one another: In the case of innovations it has always been difficult! Then: Only because we change the way we come to innovation does that not mean that the resistances will be different. Anyone in an innovation process will have experienced this: People who are trying to prevent innovation are always there. The nice thing about the open innovation process – if you put it properly when you start it properly – is that you are not alone. I believe that the positive thing about Open Innovation is the need to be non-self-independent, overcoming the individual struggle that all work together on innovation. Innovation affects many areas of life, from agriculture to industry. Because Mr Kassinger referred to the implementation: Implementation also means not only accompanying things as a political party. I'd really ask you not just to say, Let's look at it if it doesn't happen, we've known it before if it becomes something, then it was already clear before!, but to participate. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] I experience it very painfully myself in the region, where it is about us all being invited to work together in regional development, where we have started an open innovation project and where not all are on board. Of course, there are skeptics and of course you can say, perhaps more of the same comes out. But if we don't all work together to make it different, then surely the same thing will come out as before. Therefore, the invitation: We all work together on these methods! We need the rooms and above all we need this innovation culture, then implementation can succeed. One more word on the rooms. There are already many rooms. This often does not cost so much money, because it is really only about making these spaces and resources available. People in this country are willing to engage, to participate. And as far as the projects that come out of such things are concerned, it's sensational what's going on, it's great to feel the energy that's present in this scene. That we have a paper that sets the framework for this, I really think is a great achievement. That we must continue to work, that is perfectly clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14389	The next item is Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14411	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Vogl, I am right to say that innovation has repeatedly resisted, but rarely has it come from the Federal Government and Parliament at the same time. That is why I attach great hopes to this strategy, which has been working on for a year. Today, when we talk about new jobs, new jobs or current jobs in a digitalised world, we talk about future issues, it will be without this strategy that we have on the table and want to implement here – not just want, but must! –, don't go. It is a new culture – you are perfectly right – to communicate with one another, to distribute and collect knowledge, with the involvement of different levels of population, not only of science and the economy, but also of the civilian population. The diversity of this project is not only exciting, it will also be a full success. I would like to quote a paragraph from the current Open Innovation Strategy for Austria, namely the last paragraph in the Vision 2025, but recommend everyone to read the entire Vision 2025. The last paragraph reads as follows: “2025 is Austria’s active open innovation policy an international model for the design and control of open innovation systems in the digital age.” – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14444	The next item is the speech by Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14465	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Open Innovation Strategy has already been widely presented and explained by my previous speakers. I can only emphasize all of this positively. It is a signal to all to participate, to participate, to cooperate, to use the potential, to share ideas, to discuss them, to express criticism, and to draw conclusions. In the end, knowledge is bundled and innovative concepts and innovative products arise. At the beginning, however, there is a broad basis, a great potential for knowledge and ideas, observations and ideas of implementation. The valuable thing about this strategy is that the innovation potential is used by all of Austria, not just a small group or the elite. The broader the knowledge at the base is, the higher the probability that in the end the potential for excellence is actually available. It is therefore important that the Austrian The Federal Government relies on open innovation and creates the necessary framework conditions for it. Inventiveness and ingenuity are captured at several levels from different disciplines, institutions and industries, as well as pooling knowledge and knowledge and developing new things from it, which is the national open innovation strategy. An important point for me, however, is also the culture of errors. We live in a society where mistakes are exclusively negative. [[Call the Greens.]] That is why we are very reluctant to talk about mistakes, and if, then, only in connection with sanctions or penalties. Recently I had the honour of opening the German-Swiss-Austrian cable car conference in Innsbruck. As a guest speaker, Manfred Müller spoke, a pilot and head of Lufthansa AG's air safety research. He has brought us impressively into mind how we deal with our own and foreign mistakes. In short, I don't want to repeat the entire unit: Those who cover up mistakes are praised, and those who make mistakes are punished. Open innovation also has to its content that we learn from mistakes and develop our ideas and products further. It is consciously placed on the idea of each individual. Above all, it is also about encouraging, taking up and discussing ideas, working on them, and finally implementing them. With this, we have the opportunity to bring dynamics in the global market and in the digital age to the research and innovation location in Austria and thus to transfer Austria a piece internationally. That is my full consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14523	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14544	Madam President. High house! I would like to start by thanking you at the end of the debate: This is indeed an extraordinary project, a risky project. A number of project partners said at the outset: Let's see if this will be something at all if the Federal Government intensively calls on stakeholders across Austria to work on a strategy through two leading resorts with the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology! This has not yet been done in this form, but you can say at this time: It was successful! Thank you, of course, for the committee's concern, Dr. Lichtenecker. However, he also applies to the interlocutors – Mrs Himmelbauer, Mr Kucher, Mrs Gamon, Mr Kassager – and all the members of the committee, all of them in a different way in the process. I consider this to be a very good, leading one, I would almost say, modeling ways of working out such a strategy together. I do not want to address the content at all, but the Members have described in a wonderful way how Austria can benefit from such a strategy. It is crucial – and this has already happened in the debate – how to implement it now. Our place of business – this applies in the preparation of the strategy of thanks in my team, Mr Mag. Rettenbacher and the leading Research Sectionchefin Ms. Mag. Widegruber – is already working on implementation. Yesterday, by means of the Council of Ministers decision, we have given direction to where, in the medium-term financing area – which is, of course, still to be negotiated in detail in February/March – the journey in the field of research should go. I believe that this too is a clear commitment to countless debates in the Committee and also here in plenary that we are committed to optimising governance structures in the field of research. We have also decided that we want to make a comprehensive, comprehensive evaluation of the entire research promotion landscape to see where we can make efficiency improvements. This too was a wish that the High House has repeatedly expressed. Secondly, We are very clearly committed to strengthening basic research. That's what we want. Mr Bundesminister a.D. Däderle referred to: We will have an increase in the FWF budget by 50 percent by 2021. You can be more and more desired, but I think that's quite clearly the direction we want to go. There are a number of – when it comes to risk-oriented research – exciting projects that the new FWF management has already put on the table, such as this project, 1,000 ideas, where one really promotes high-risk research projects. Then there is a third, for us very, very important part, which is the whole area of digital transformation, where we will also promote a number of exciting projects. It concludes with open innovation when new, wide-ranging innovation approaches and pilot projects, which are exactly included in the strategy, are promoted – by the way, with additional money and already in 2017. So if you want me to sum this up, I would like to thank once again all those who have been actively involved here. This is indeed a valid project, so decisive that we are already very interested in sharing this knowledge both at European level and at the level of several Member States. You know, Commissioner Moedas has also set open innovation as one of the three guiding principles for the second half of the Commission's period. There too we can now contribute a lot and of course want to cooperate in the network. I believe that this is a great example of how to work together as a High House with the Federal Government on a project to create a reasonable golden bridge for more growth, more jobs, but also for more social innovation in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14595	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of this report III-292 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of taking note of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gamon, colleagues and colleagues on strengthening the Austrian research and innovation landscape. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[16:33:22]] 3rd. Point Report of the Tourism Committee on the Government Template (1251, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Federal Law against Unfair Competition 1984 – UWG and the Price Award Act, and the Amendment No 1572/A(E) by Mr Mag. Roman Haider, Georg Willi, Josef Schellhorn, Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues on the creation of fair game rules and conditions for competition in connection with online booking platforms as well as the promotion of Austrian sales solutions for online bookings in tourism (1305 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14674	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Obernosterer is the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14701	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! As has already been said, the item on the agenda 3 concerns tourism, which is the change to the pricing law. What happened? – If businesses, tourists, hoteliers or landlords have entered into a contract with Internet platforms to market the house, there have also been platforms that then had a best price clause in their contract. In practice, it looked like the operation itself, if it had a few rooms free and placed them on its homepage in the short term, had to at least specify the price that was also stated on the Internet platforms. It was not legally possible to offer free rooms in the short term even more favourable. This law, which we are going to adopt here today, will virtually dispel this best price clause. I think this is important for tourism. We know that the tourism industry is one of the most stable sectors in Austria. We can look back on a record summer this year, which shows that tourism in Austria is still the most stable economic factor. We know that tourism also has many problems to contend with. We know that the service and continuous work cannot be compared. We know we need to do something in this area. In tourism, we need a more liberal working time than in the flow band, which is simply what the industry requires. There is still much to discuss about this, and we must try to reach a solution. We also know, however, that – as everywhere – the many laws, controls, requirements and regulations are in part only obstructive and actually no longer fulfilling the purpose. Quality must be, control must be, but everything else needs to be deflated. I think we'll have a lot of work to do in the near future. But one thing I would also like to say: I have been working here in the House for ten years now. In the past, a number of reliefs for tourism have been decided here. I therefore do not understand some statements, especially when they come from someone who himself has and leads a business. You can always propose improvements, always demand – that is, especially of opposition parties, that is not at all a topic – but if we have done something in the sense of the tourism industry, I expect a professional and also some colleagues to say: There's something we've succeeded in, but I'm still too little, something has to happen. But if concerns are done positively, one should also have the strength and confidence to see that one has brought something together together, because we are not fighting as an economic operator for our parties, but we are basically fighting for our operating position. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What happened last year? – We have already heard the points relating to the trade regulations. I'm a hoteler and a tourist myself. In order to meet the needs of the guest, I have so far needed five chamber memberships for our company; now I only need one. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Well, nice!]] If this is not a relief and can't be recognized if you don't say: That went in the right direction!, then I don't know myself anymore. When I picked up a guest from the train station, I needed the hotel taxi industry if the guest had got a massage, I needed the massage industry if he had a cosmetic treatment, I needed the cosmetics industry if he wanted animation, I needed the animation industry. If I wanted to extend a break-hour, I signed up for the coffee industry next to the gastronomy industry, so I could have been open for two hours longer. All of this is no longer necessary. If these are not reliefs and steps in the right direction, then I no longer know what I am saying to you. This is good for our industry, and this is important for our industry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have recently decided on the package of family aid. Anyone who has been in Alpbach during the tourism talks knows: The Italians and the Germans have envied us for this regulation. They cannot imagine that they are doing this. We have the small employees who can work aliquot only two to two and a half hours a day; now they can do this in the tourism industry on the weekend at a wedding in the block. We have been able to reduce the night rest period in exceptional cases from twelve to eight hours; now we have a little bit of room for family parties or weddings where we have not been able to do with the night rest. But that is not all, there is much more to be done in this area. Recently, there was – and we must not forget that – the increase in the investment premium for tourism in particular: 15 percent for € 400 000 a year, based on the respective amount. Guys, that's not little! These are good conditions for tourism, and I say quite honestly: If in the next few years, Mr State Secretary, we can only deal with nearly so many points every year, then we will be in a few years' time when we believe that we can work properly and also unbureaucratically. One thing is clear: I have to pay taxes in every country in this world, I have to comply with regulations and regulations in every country, and for one thing Austria is quite clear: for quality; and quality does not come by itself, because it also needs certain framework conditions to be fulfilled. In this sense, as a tourist, I would like to say: With this year, with the things that have been done, I think we can be happy; but we are not yet finished, we have a lot to do there. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14752	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14773	==References== November seems to be a historic date; it has changed more than once in the last decades and centuries Europe, America and the world: 1923 Hitler-Ludendorff-Putsch, 1938 the Pogromnacht, where there were 6 457 arrests in Vienna alone, 88 injured and 27 dead, 1989 fall of the Berlin Wall, 2016 Trump. – It is up to us Members: We must and we can decide where we want to go and go in the future. Madam President. Mr State Secretary! We are committed – across party borders – to the Austrians. It is up to us that the state works, that people are supported, that their fears and concerns are also perceived. In this way, the businessmen's desire to be able to work as freely as possible and, in future, to ensure jobs in businesses is at the heart of today's government paper. With this law, this government template will ensure fair competition, and I am pleased that we can agree on a common position across all political groups. The job engine of Austria is the 314,000 small and medium-sized enterprises in which over 1.8 million people are employed. In this awareness, we are constantly working on it and we need to work constantly to improve the structures, force new business start-ups and promote start-ups. I am therefore particularly pleased, in the sense of Austrian tourism, that we are taking another right step together today by ensuring fair conditions for competition, namely by innovation of the UWG, the law against unfair competition, from 1984. We create fair conditions of competition by bringing down the best price clause. Each entrepreneur and entrepreneur has the right to design the prices themselves and to make the best offer. Of course, political implementation must be transparent and consistent with and maintained by consumer protection, so that both entrepreneurs and consumers can benefit from the benefits of this legislative change. In order to ensure this and assess the impact of the new trends in tourism, an evaluation is planned in 2020. Let me conclude by saying: It is our entrepreneurs who create jobs and pay taxes together with self-employed persons and move forward in Austria. In this sense: This government template leads to more entrepreneurial freedom while maintaining the high consumer protection standards, but also to a more modern and transparent design of framework conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14824	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14846	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Obernosterer, you have spoken here today about discharges for the tourism industry. The whole thing seems to me as if one had tied a huge backpack around the touristists, laid in again and again heavy things, took something out in the meantime and then put something serious on it again. It is true that there is God, thanks to some kind of discharge, but the backpack that our tourists, who have to work day and night to get to this economic success, is still too difficult for tourism companies. I bring a few examples of this: VAT has been increased from 10 per cent to 13 per cent, much lower in Germany. Only the income disadvantage from this additional burden, have calculated tax advisors, amounts to 5.4 percent. The depreciation period was extended from 25 to 40 years; there is no longer a realistic depreciation period. It is true that there is now an investment incentive with an investment premium on the other hand. However, this investment premium was essentially abolished with the extension of the AfA, which is not realistic at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] The reduction in the additional wage costs is waiting for a large throw. [[Abg. Top noster: 1 per cent!]] Smoking freedom was, for example, a theatre: First of all, it has been freed to decide whether they are non-smoking or not, remodelling has been possible; these conversions are essentially for nothing, because in the future there will be an absolute ban on smoking. The Allergen Regulation has been introduced. [[Abg. Obernoster: From a Minister of Freedom!]] We have already criticised the fact that the budget for the Austrian advertising has been unchanged since 2003 – € 32 million. Austria's advertising also wants more budget, so that more and better advertising can be made in the telemarkets in particular. The Russian sanctions burden the tourism industry immensely. The registration fee requirement has been added, as has the accessibility. [[Abg. Upper Nosterer: Minister of Freedom! Decided in 2004!]] So you see: a bag full of loads! It is high time to empty this backpack, to enable businesses to do much better business, and one should not say here at the speaker's desk that it is all so good anyway and the opposition should acknowledge that a lot has already done! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the agenda item, to the request concerning online booking platforms: There too, we, the opposition – it was a common request – almost ran against a wall. In the context of an opposition initiative, we have called for the best price clause to fall. The Austrian Hoteliervereinigung has already filed a complaint with the Federal Competition Authority in 2012. 2012! – We write the year 2016. We, the opposition, have introduced this initiative. This initiative has been postponed twice – without a reason! What does that mean? – We could have done that a long time ago and much faster. All right, now we've done it, thank God! It must be recognized, however, that the opposition has insisted on putting this thing on the right path. The fact that the best price clause was, of course, a competitive disadvantage for our tourism companies is clear. In Germany, the best price clause has already been abolished a year ago, so it is in France. Only with us has it required an eternal start of the opposition against this wall, which in the last consequence has now led to God’s success – late, but yet, I say. But if you had heard the opposition a little earlier, this thing would have gone faster. Today it has also been said that the trade order is the great throw – we have debated this during the current hour –: Let's be glad that the stone has been rolled! He's rolling, but he's rolling modestly. The great throw wasn't that with God, this has to be held here again today. More about the best price clause: This was a massive competitive disadvantage for our hotel and tourism companies, because of course it was a gag. It is clear that a tourism company needs to react to the market in the short term, it cannot simply guarantee a booking platform such as Booking.com that it always has the best price. Thus, businesses were unable to respond to market and market requirements in the short term. That was not possible, and thank God we decide today the end of this best price clause, which we, the opposition, have long wanted to do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a brief comment on the trade order has been launched: There's really much to do. I just mention one example, even here, according to the old practice in the Tourism Committee, we are trying to put a lot on the road to the needy tourism industry: We are working together to improve the legal framework for private tenants. There are at least 41,000 private tenants who record 21 million nights of stay in Austria, 17 percent of all nights of stay. This profession is female, and from history it has developed as follows: After the war one has gone here and has created the possibility of domestic acquisition and acquisition – work place at home, money at home, making domestic acquisitions, which is very important. At that time there was a ceiling of ten beds. At that time, the private rental was a private room rental, in the meantime it has essentially become a vacation rental because of the market, with this ceiling of ten beds remaining. Now we have to make sure that we adapt the legal framework in such a way that the economy, this workplace at home, continues to pay off that the population or, essentially, the women say: Yeah, I'll stay home! I use this beautiful profession, I will see that in the course of this domestic acquisition I can make the necessary money! – But then we have to create the legal conditions for this. What does it look like at the moment? – In the context of the private apartment rental up to ten beds, it is so that renting is not subject to a commercial obligation only if no breakfast is given or, for example, no cleaning takes place during the week. This is not marketable, it cannot be, and I ask that we in the Committee on Tourism, on the Rules of Commerce, also create the appropriate framework conditions for a sensible private rental law. I invite the Committee to cooperate positively with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14930	The next speaker is Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e14951	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The tone is constructive, and, my colleague Gabriel Obernosterer, I appreciate your commitment to tourism and know that you know you're there. If you have found many praises today for what you have been able to give to tourists all the reliefs, you have to be critical of this already, namely that the tax reform package has hit tourism very strongly, and that is exactly the sector that has kept and even done in the crisis. That is to say, those who have worked hard and have been able to survive have actually been punished. I believe that what is happening today and what, please, was a request from the opposition to finally abolish this best-price clause, a little like a compensation for the unfair about the tax reform. But I would like to return to the constructive tone. I think work in tourism is a very nice one. People from all over the world are met, and every guest who comes to Austria is a good ambassador to our country, if he feels comfortable here when he gets a good meal, has a great cultural offer and especially if he can report about our natural and cultural landscape, for which our farmers with their work. This is a huge potential, including value creation, and art is to shape the framework conditions in tourism in such a way that entrepreneurs feel that it pays off to work in this industry. And those employed must have the feeling: I deserve so much that I like to do this because I can take enough money home! Tourism is just – and I am now speaking as a Tyrolean; Tyrol has many valleys – it is essential for employment in rural areas. If I had all this in mind, I would like – because there is already a constructive tone – that the representatives of the government parties in the Tourism Committee, together with the representatives of the opposition, are always trying to turn on swivels where changes occur, because things are changing. In the run-up to this bill, we were representatives of the booking platforms. At first sight these were the representatives of the big sharks for me; these are huge international companies that – and I know that from the hotel where my wife works – demand juicy commissions to offer their services. On the other hand, they must be helped to create a huge market place with their activities, where even the smallest hotels can present their offer, and therefore bring guests to regions where the individual hoteler is hard to reach people. That is to say, you have to recognize what they do; but they have then partly exaggerated it and said: I am Powerful, I'll push you down, and I'll force you a best price clause! - We'll end that today. The art is to see the positive that these companies do, but to limit their power where it is necessary – and we do today. But what I have heard in this discussion about booking platforms is two things: They will also overtake themselves with time, because the guests are going to post photos of their holiday destinations, and Internet providers will see, for example, that Mr. Willi posted a photo of the hotel in Tuscany – and then I will suddenly get offers for a holiday in Tuscany, without booking platform. There's a whole new model. I therefore welcome the evaluation in a few years, because I believe that this market is in a huge breakdown through digitization and new fields of business are emerging each year to which we have to react legislatively. My concern, especially to the government parties, is therefore that we react quickly when we see it needs change because tourism in Austria is simply an extremely important industry, especially in the mountainous region.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15006	The next speaker was Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15027	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! This amendment is really a good example of how cooperation in Parliament can work, and this joint proposal is also a positive example. Actually, I thought I'd mention something positive and I'm a bit constructive once, but why actually, dear Gabriel Obernosterer, if it's personal? [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] Now you're making yourself up and saying it's all so great. [[Abg. Obernoster: Didn't you listen to me?]] You can thank the Secretary of State who has recovered our request, which has been rejected before. That's how it looks, so is reality, and otherwise nothing was in it! In the past, we have said that we do not need it, and that is clearly what the competitive guardians have said. If you're restoring yourself here and talking about how tourism has now been relieved, after thirty years of ÖVP economic policy, after thirty years of tourism policy – yes, great, we'll relieve you now! Then it's like a fairy tale. You're often talking about fairy tales now. Do you know the fairy tale Pinocchio, tell you something? [[Abg. Your nose is already growing!]] I believe that in this respect this fairy tale has come through very well with you, and you are now trying to tell people a story; that is not the problem of these entrepreneurs. The problem of entrepreneurs, the touristist is the amortization period of 40 years, the registration fee obligation insofar as the entrepreneurs from the government were first put off by the ÖVP as black money shoppers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] These are harassments, and basically it is also about the need for constructive examples. The real problems of these entrepreneurs are the flexibility of working time, which goes too little – you know – the shortage of skilled workers – and the real problems are the bureaucracy and the horrors created together with the social partners, by no one else. [[Abg. Obernoster: Didn't you listen to me?]] You have been responsible for this with your economic and tourism policy for 30 years, and you have to face this responsibility. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Willi.]] And then you come here and say that this investment premium is really great. These 175 million € are not even enough for what is achieved with 13 percent in addition to logis revenues, with this additional tax revenue from 30 percent increase on Logis. And then you say, We'll relieve you! You take it out and try to put it in there, and that's the wrong policy. [[on which a bag of sacks]] [[to the other sacco bag]] You have to relieve the companies! You have to do something for the tourists! As Mr Hauser said, you must not hold them down first, and then say: We'll relieve you, eh! This is the fairy tale of Pinocchio. [[Abg. Your nose is already growing!]] – My nose remains the way it is. I explained this to you this morning on the basis of the picture of the family tree. [[Abg. Your nose is already growing!]] Read some Brother Grimm, then you can also draw in pictures and don't always have to say the opposition is bad. [[Abg. Your nose is already growing!]] This is your responsibility – 30 years of tourism policy! In the valleys of Tyrol, they hunt you out with wet cunts! They've got the snout full of you!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15180	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15202	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the visitor gallery and in front of the televisions after work done! Of course, we will agree to this award-winning law – Mr Schellhorn has just emphasized this unanimity – of course! Mr Obernosterer, I think you were on a joint motivation course with President Leitel. I can't cut that presumption. President Leitl has always said that Austria has been sent down, and I was quite amazed – I believed I saw the wrong program – when I came home and heard in the “time in Figure 2” how he praised this economic report. I thought something must have happened that we didn't know. Similarly today, you said what has been done in the Committee. Motivation is anyway the most important, that is quite crucial, but you should still leave the church in the village. Remember how we have tormented ourselves in order to reach this normal arrangement with regard to the close relatives and family members employed in the operation! Thank God we have been able to do that this day too. However, many things have already been mentioned by my previous speakers: Mr Hauser mentioned the history of VAT, and the register case was just mentioned by Mr Schellhorn. I am grateful to all those who work in the hotel industry and gastronomy, but especially the operators, the owners. There's nothing tougher than a seven-day week. I know this not only from agriculture with dairy farming, but also from the three and a half years of experience as a host, because of course the needs of employees and guests must be tailored. Every guest demands that he be served and served on Sunday, but does not consider that those who have to do the work, for example the cook, the waitress, the cleaning woman, all involved, of course also the chiefs, also have family. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] In this field of tension, we need to discuss this, and I have now felt in the whole discussion that even since practice and theory are insidiously far apart. This morning I was unable to mention what the real problems are, not the basic approaches of the trade reform, but the fine needlesticks of over-bureaucracy, because of the short speaking time on the subject of industrial reform. If a young businessman with six employees commits two Fiscal trucks and is then reclaimed by the Financial Office €6,000, because the loading area is too short by 5 centimetres, and then he still has to employ his secretary to calculate the invoices for the spare parts of the service from the last balance sheet, then we know what really arouses the displeasure of entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Hanger: There's already the manufacturer's fault!]] Then we know the problem is this double and triple bureaucracy, these extra fine shocks that are installed there. I think that's all that, absolutely essential. [[Abg. Hanger: It would be good if the manufacturer adhered to the guidelines!]] Because the hotel industry and the gastronomy – we hope to face a successful winter season and hope that it will not only remain in the weather report – such an important industry – and this is particularly true of the mentioned Alpine region, Mr Schellhorn, in conjunction with a functioning agriculture; we cannot maintain this cultural landscape with local workers or with publicly paid staff – it is essential that we not only continue a step further in the support of staff, but also in the purchase of products. Dear Gabi Obernosterer, I understand you better and better. I thought at the beginning, you might want to fuck me up a little bit if you've always said, We buy everything within 30 kilometres! I have to give you the right. That's quite clear to me: An entrepreneur, a gastronomy, a hotelier or his driver cannot make ten stops in the morning until he buys the goods for his kitchen. Of course, he buys from professionals. It was the “guest” in Salzburg this weekend, as you can see about what is possible in the professional area. This is similar to the “International Green Week Berlin” at the private consumer. What is in part offered to entrepreneurs, large kitchens, is what we need to question. That's where it's supposed to be. By chance, this morning the Chancellor has already addressed this story with the eggs and said that it is important to him where the eggs come from. I just happened to take this liquid egg with me because I wanted to focus on it today. [[a 1-liter canister with the label ‘DANAEG’, in which a yellow liquid is located, holding in height]] You can't cheat on that. Whoever breakfasts in the hotel today will, if he doesn't have a whole thing Egg or no mirror has eaten, cannot determine whether the egg food has not been produced from such a can. Now you can ask what's bad about that. – This is from Denmark, and we saw yesterday in the film “Bauer uns” that controls and conditions are also so strict in the agricultural field that we talk about the feeding ration in poultry or the management method that we check how to keep the chickens – in outdoor farming, in soil farming, in cage farming. By the way, I must mention the following painful: If the European Investment Bank invests in Ukraine in leghold systems that are banned from us in Europe, then we need to look even more vehemently at labelling history and trade forms, because in this form domestic, ordinary production is then undermined and ultimately destroyed. We check in the feed, at the hen, but vice versa in the processing no longer look what comes in. It's lasting for three months! [[Keeping the canister in height]] Try Here you go with an egg! Whoever has smelled the noble smell of a stinking ice once in life knows what I am talking about. Shelf life for three and a half months – this is only possible with the most brutal chemistry. This only happens if you kill this food by adding E 202 – potassium sorbate –, E 330 – citric acid –, E 471 and E 475 – emulsifiers. Ladies and gentlemen, what the food industry, food technology and food chemistry can do today – we are increasing our food to up to 7,500 chemicals – does not keep the healthiest body, and we must not implement this, even in the interests of public health. The issue here is the health of the citizens and the hospitality and gastronomy of the hotel in the end is health and also fairness to our guests. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I should therefore like to make the following request to strengthen local regional networks – hotel industry, gastronomy, agriculture, small business, wholesale trade, bus companies, all sectors in stock and downstream –: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm allowed to say: We don't want any extra bureaucracy. It would be great if at the last Page of the menu would be awarded: We obtain our pork, beef, our vegetables, our eggs, our milk, our cheese from these and those suppliers. We're asking for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15288	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15363	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15384	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the best price clause, I would like to address my previous speaker briefly. Mr Steinbichler, as a representative of the House of Representatives of the European Communities, you always represent agriculture very well-worded, but my problem is that this is more often a lion's stage than a reality. We know that the situation is very tense. But that high-quality Austrian food production and food technology are really excellent ways to bring our products to the best possible progress, we would not have to question. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Where?]] [[Abg. Lugar: Didn't you watch out? Didn't you listen?]] It is also true that today there is prosperity in Austria, in Central Europe, because we have a very well-functioning agriculture, but above all because we can also process food as best we can. There is also the durability technology, which is used, not always to defuse. That's a good thing! Today we are getting older in our society than ever before and are constantly saying how bad our food is. I can't believe that anymore! And if your Gospel is a little movie, it's beautiful, but then it's not the reality that speaks for agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Are you a farmer or a lobbyist?]] Ladies and gentlemen, real prices for Austrian production will only be obtained if we can also represent the added value. Mr. Steinbichler, you said you don't know what the egg food is like in the hotel, if you don't get the whole egg, and then you can be such a product inside that you showed. That's where you have to ask! In the end, the intensity of the consumer is the commitment we, as farmers, must call for, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Please save the poor consumer!]] The best price clause shows, however, that we must protect businesses from too large conglomerates so that they are still strong enough to shape the prices themselves in order to enable free competition. The Tourism Committee often meets and advises a lot, but legislative proposals come from this committee relatively rarely, because we have a lot of cross-sectionalities. This is the case both in tax law and in a wide variety of labour law issues. Especially digitalization – Mr. Willi has done this very well – is a challenge for all rural and hotel companies in particular. These are the extra costs that lie on the farms. For example, you have to make sure that a homepage is served accordingly and so on. These are social demands that simply increase the burden on farms. The representation that it is always only the evil policy is something too one-sided to me, because where does the theme of non-smoking come from? – This comes from the protection of workers. It has developed, and now it is standard of living in Central Europe and thus also in Austria. Many consumers very much appreciate the introduction of non-smoking – with all the problems associated with it, but it is a social development. The question of the Allergensverordnung could have been better communicated and implemented there or there, but it is a social development that people with special needs also need appropriate information. Also, accessibility does not come from anywhere, nor does it have the reason to oblige entrepreneurs to vote somewhere else. The inclusion in our society, through which we want to take up the disabled in particular and bring them into the middle of society, we must ultimately also live in the enterprises, and there are the conditions so that it is also feasible. One more thing to say: This was introduced by a FPÖ minister – I think that was the head of the Social Minister at the time – so one should not judge politics according to what hat someone is currently wearing, but we should also look at how we are moving society in general. The fact that we still have to make much progress in working time flexibility, especially in the area of gastronomy and hotels, is of course also undisputed, but there must also be worker protection. However, flexibilisation would be an absolutely necessary step forward. I believe that this would be the strongest relief we can give to businesses, and we should take the next steps, together with the social partners.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15467	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15488	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With this change in the law against unfair competition, hotels will be able to make their prices themselves, which we have heard several times today, without restrictions. This is a real, important step in the future and especially for our tourism. You're wondering now: What does that mean for the hotel industry? What does this mean for the consumer? – This law will soon allow for free pricing, and hotel booking platforms such as Booking.com will no longer allow the local hotel partners to submit the price policy, with Booking.com already going that far – I think that was in spring 2015 when there were a number of media reports on it – that it was the lowest hotel price, the highest possible room availability and the cheapest booking and cancellation conditions on the Internet and thus also dictated the minimum prices. Although hoteliers were allowed to offer their rooms on other platforms or on the telephone more affordable, on their own homepage they were forbidden. This is, of course, an absolute restriction of entrepreneurial freedom. Now it is possible by this law again that entrepreneurs can freely decide at what price they present their offer on the market or on their homepage. I believe that best price clauses lead to a restriction of competition between existing portals as well as between hotels. If one sees it from the consumer's side, there are no recognizable disadvantages either, on the contrary: Consumers will benefit directly from the absence of the clause. Why? – Because the competition for lower prices between the portals is revived and hotel platforms such as Booking.com receive a commission from their partner hotel for every person who has been given it, which ultimately also pays the guest with the room price. This change of law created the same conditions to ensure that hoteliers have the same flexibility in order to make price action in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15533	Next speaker: Mr Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15555	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Dear Members of this House! This government template undermines the so-called best price clause, thus strengthening the hotel industry, which provides accommodation services over booking platforms. Clearly, we will vote in favour of this government proposal by the Freedom Party, but it is a free initiative or a joint request from all the opposition parties. It would be desirable, however, for the government parties to accept requests from the opposition more often, because, as this shows in this case, they are quite right and quite good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the last meeting of the Committee on Tourism, there was a debate, among other things, on the current issues of the Committee's work, and experts were invited to do so. It was the managing director of Austria advertising here, Mrs. Dr. Stolba, it was Mr. Mag. Kleemann da, Managing Director of the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank, and it was Mr Mag. Tubemoser and travel tooth from the Prodinger tourism consultancy here. The latter presented us with a study on the impact of the 2016 tax reform on the hotel industry in Austria. If you are dealing with this study, you should not forget that tourism is one of the most important sectors in our country. So if you read through this study, you will find that it actually represents nothing but a reflection of the current government work. To attach it to headlines: You can read there: “Simplified generation change in hotel industry”, “What leaves hoteliers and employees sleep badly” or “With the downtime policy, the tourism industry has to adjust to a longer fasting period”. Just the latter is the sentence that actually brings it to the point: This is what we are currently experiencing in this country, especially in the area of tourism. Fixed by one example: Especially in the gastronomy, in the hotel industry, there is a need for constant investment. In this connection, I also quote Mag. Tube musser who said: “But nothing out of date more than a hotel object that came into the years.” By the year 2000, investment in investment assets was expected to have a useful life of 25 years. The company was thus able to write off these investments annually at 4 percent. In the meantime, the tax period is 40 years. And there's a clear and clear difference. between the actual duration of economic use and the period of use of tax law. No hotel room, no wellness area, no restaurant, no coffee house can stand on the market for over 40 years. It is precisely this fact that we have also made a request for freedom of movement, with the request that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs should enter into discussions with the Minister for Finance and consider how at least the duration of depreciation for building parts which have their own use can be attributed to the actual duration of use. The application was made – now! Mr Obernosterer, I am always very happy to listen to you when you talk about tourism because you do so with such a great passion, because those are often flammable speeches that you give. I do not understand, however, why it is you who make the request for the suspension of opposition applications and that you agree with them. I am here very much with Mr Schellhorn, who has already initiated this today. You said in your speech that you should recognize what has already been done, how much has already been done. – Yes, you should recognize that, but please let us also talk about what has not been done! Let us talk about how many requests have been postponed in the Tourism Committee! They were all opposition applications that were pushed. The best example is the last session. There were eight items on the agenda: one of them was the debate, one of which was this government template, six opposition requests – all postponed! Finally, I should like to quote Mr Ecker, who said the following in a speech today: “We are not measured by words [...], but by deeds.” – And that’s the point. This concludes because the circle closes again: We have a standstill policy. It is also reflected in the Tourism Committee with constant delays of all the requests coming from the opposition. And I can't spare you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, that I say this again: If you were to listen to us once more, if you were to listen to the opposition more often, you would certainly be more successful and then it would be better for this country and its citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15625	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15646	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, in the tourism sector, the importance of booking or comparison platforms has increased greatly in recent years. In principle, there is no objection either because, as Mr Willi has already said, there are many advantages for tourism companies. However, the practice already mentioned several times is to be rejected, according to which the best price clauses of these platforms require accommodation companies to include, among other things, no cheaper prices on their own website or to purchase or bind customers with more favourable conditions, such as special conditions for food, wellness or excursions. Such a practice has become a reality because, in fact, there is an economic imbalance between the operators of a booking or comparison platform on the one hand and the accommodation companies on the other. Other side exists. Many accommodation companies are simply and simply in a dependency relationship and are therefore forced to appear on platforms in order to take real account of today's flexible markets in the tourism sector. It is very common for SMEs to face such unfair business practices. Therefore, in future, an operator's request for a booking platform to a hosting company will be that on other distribution routes including its own website, this should not offer a cheaper price or any more favourable conditions than on the platform, at least as aggressive and thus as an unfair business practice within the meaning of the UWG. Agreements on this will be totally null and void in the future. This change of the UWG therefore constitutes an important scheme in the sense of ensuring fair competition for businesses, especially SMEs. This amendment of the UWG is also to be welcomed in terms of contract autonomy and freedom of employment. Finally, it should be noted that there is a comparable legal regime already in France and that in Germany the Federal Cartel Office has decided that best price clauses are contrary to the competition rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15692	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doorer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15713	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It was once a time of fair cooperation between the hotel companies and the online platforms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] It was a partnership with decent conditions of competition and sustainable commissions. On-line platforms, however, market leaders, dominant companies, who used their positions to increase commissions on the one hand, and also create other conditions that did not exactly facilitate the situation for small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism sector in particular. Hotels that wanted to continue to participate in the online platforms were forced to accept, swallow certain clauses – and one was just this best price guarantee. Many businesses have also called this a compulsory clause. A hotel can only continue to participate if it does not offer any cheaper prices on its own website – Mr Obernosterer has exactly described the situation. In my opinion, this is a pervert of competition. And soon several thousand hotels faced only more, quite a few online platforms in this development. One can certainly speak of monopolizing – monopoly is per se a problem – and that has been exploited. At the same time, you are also on the way to much higher commissions. We are on a similar path to the US with soon 25 percent commissions. At present, normality is already 13 to 23 percent in Austria. According to the Austrian Hostel Association, our local hotels already pay €200 million annually to the online platforms. There's a lot to ask. These practices of online platforms have been banned in France. Germany has its problem with it, and also in Austria, hotels and workers' chamber made mobile. But we should be aware: The actual service providers in this area are the hotels and their employees. They pay taxes and taxes, social charges, local taxes, investments. The fact is now that this legal change sets course in the sense of the tourism industry in Austria. I think this is very positive. It is also an example of good cooperation here in Parliament. And the Secretary of State has also very much accepted this matter, one has to say here. I say yes to fair rules in the cooperation between the hotel companies and the online platforms, but also to a forced Austrian sales solutions; that is, the strengthening of regional booking platforms is also welcome. With the reform of the Federal Law against unfair competition, the compulsory clauses are finally history. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15764	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15786	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have been a member of the Tourism Committee for three years now, and I would like to say almost: Every day, the Murmeltier greets me when I let the debates in the committee and today in the plenary sitting be held in Revue. If one wants to give faith to the opposition parties, then somehow there is almost a mood of ruin. Everything's bad. The conditions are very, very terrible. – In fact, a new tourism record is reported each year. The number of nights increases. So the picture is really that tourism is extremely important to our economy, that it brings a lot of value added to the regions. That's what we need. So the truth – in order to live up to the honor – will lie in the middle. Of course, you always have to work on framework conditions. There are certain issues that we do not like very much. For me, however, it is crucial that we need optimism in this sector. I come from a region where there is also tourism. There workers are asked who are almost impossible to get. If we explain all the time: Everything is bad and the world's downfall is near!, then we won't get there. Optimizism is needed; and I wanted to hold it in the lead. In today's government, an aspect that has not yet been mentioned is very important to me. The question is: Why did these booking platforms even come into existence? – The Internet and digitalisation were the basis for this. The booking platforms are the best proof that digitalization, the working world 4.0 is taking place for a long time. I think it is the legislator's task to pay very close attention to what is happening in the economy. There have, of course, been misdevelopments with the monopolization which has already been addressed, with the high commissions that have been paid there. The legislator has now responded, and I believe that this is a very important step in general. Digitalization, this is very important to me, but of course it must also be understood as an opportunity, especially in tourism, product development, sales, marketing, customer loyalty. The competent ministry has only recently awarded an innovation million in order to meet lighthouse projects in tourism. to promote. I think we need these lighthouse projects. We need this optimism, only then we will be able to develop tourism positively in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15828	The next speaker is Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15849	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Actually, today should really be a day of joy for the entire tourism industry. But if one has followed the last 45 minutes of this debate very closely, one knows that the touristists should have withdrawn for a long time and their screens have already turned off at home. The tourism industry has been hard under pressure over the last decades – and I am entirely right about that. One has of course approached this platform and has also used it. This has had the advantage that the number of bookings in Austria has naturally increased, the bed load has been decent, and in the end, investment and jobs have been created. Of course, this price calculation and this competition have their rules of play, and that is why there are these novels today. Interestingly, this novelle has also been unanimously decided in the Tourism Committee – except for the Stronach team, which unfortunately no one was there of God – I would just like to remind you of that. We are therefore of the same opinion. But if there are floskels here today – from liquids to the various forms of work and ultimately the flexibility of working hours – I would like to say one thing: Flexibility of working hours cannot be applied to the backs of workers alone. The best example of this is that a so-called leisure option was offered in the CV negotiations last week. But who doesn't finish this? - The employers! [[Call the SPÖ:Go, huh?- Oh, my God!]] It cannot also be so in the tourism sector that we say that for workers 12, 14, 15, 16 hours a day there is no problem at all. By the way, the tourism industry also works 365 days a year, and this can be compared to all industrial enterprises. We also work 365 days in the industrial enterprises in Austria, but with a regulation according to which decent payment is made, according to which those workers who provide Saturday, Sunday and night services are properly paid and not fed with two sausages. That's not what I call flexibilization.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15900	The next speaker was Mr Mahrer's speech. Please, Mr State Secretary. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] - Are we done now?- Oh, my God! Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e15928	Mr President. High house! This is an emotionalizing issue for several speakers. In order to amend the two laws, the Federal Law against Unfair Competition and the Price Award Act, it is necessary to maintain – and more is the do not add – that the two innovations will serve a fairer competition. In fact, it is true that a few years ago different Members, as well as practitioners, have pointed out that there will be a conflict of interest by introducing new digital business models with existing booking practices and business models in the area of Austrian accommodation companies. By the way, this is not an Austrian phenomenon, but digitization in this field is taking place in different sectors. What we are dealing with here today – and Mrs Karl has mentioned it – has already been clarified in different ways in other European countries: either with a legal solution or by the respective competition authority through a relevant decision as to how to proceed. We now live up to a Community wish, so to speak, after having held an objective debate in the Tourism Committee with the representatives of the Austrian Federal Competition Authority. If I'm properly informed, it's a premiere: These are the first legislative proposals to reach the plenary from the Tourism Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] That's a good story. I would like to thank all the political groups in the Committee and all the speakers involved in the debate. I shall now briefly comment on the comments made by Mr Schellhorn and all the others: It is a fact that all sectors – not only in Austria, but in all European countries – are currently under special competitive pressure. And, depending on the industry, there are a number of different factors to influence how to relieve this competitive pressure. Digitalisation is an influence factor – we have discussed this more often in the committees, but also here in the plenary session – which will have an even greater impact. There's only one point in the booking behavior. I am pleased that Mr Willi was very careful when I last carried out what will change because the digital providers in the social networks will use consumer photo and video files and believe that they will make even more correct and more accurate booking offers than today's booking platforms do. This will continue in the next few years. You can now go through industry, all these industries are under pressure. What I would warn against – actually warn! – is to hold a debate forever and to constantly communicate to the almost 200,000 employees in almost 64,000 accommodation and gastronomy establishments, how bad this industry is and how dramatic it is compared to others. Indeed, there is this pressure in industry – whether it is the manufacturing industry or the manufacturing industry – and there is also the pressure in trade, and the pressure is currently massive in the financial services sector, banks and insurance, and, of course, in tourism, because of the changes. This is not an individual development that we are exposed to. But what I'm pleased about – and these are the numbers we see, and you just have to book them on the business side – is that we've had a very great booking situation again in the summer, a plus in the field of nights and in total a plus in the area of guests, and that – that's the most beautiful thing I really want to call in numbers here, and that's perhaps a wonderful symptom of the fact that there are enough businesses in Austria, investing – the credit volume in tourism during the period January to September from 2015 to 2016 from € 163 million to € 258 million, which is at least an increase of 59 percent – and we have had an investment brake there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser]] If any studies are going on, in which of raubritretism or destiny policy is the case, then the own industry is punishing these theses lies. Sepp Schellhorn, you know this: I am a lot on my way to the federal states, and I have not yet been chased out with a wet slut – quite the contrary! We are very open to debates, debate with all representatives of all sectors in all the federal states, and work with our teams, with the coalition partner and with all the Members who are interested in a constructive solution to these problems in a wide range of areas. Some things need longer, because Austria cannot influence them alone, we can take other things into our own hands, and we do so, for example, with the innovation of these two templates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16000	The next speaker is Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16021	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to speak today on the best price clause and on the relevant legislative amendment. When I first came into contact with the UWG about 30 years ago, there was a single clause, a general clause after which the Judicature so to speak. Today, there is a general clause that goes two ways, which describes aggressive and misleading advertising, and a giant attachment in which individual cases are resolved. To these individual cases, point 32 is added with the prohibition of the best price clauses. This is once again an interesting law technique to resolve the individual cases in the annex to a law casuistically. If we boast today of making business freedom, then that is only the one side, because by introducing a void clause in the UWG, we also limit private autonomy, we declare certain parts of a contract void. It is true that we have come into this situation because the booking platforms with the hoteliers have concluded agreements that we feel today as gags. This would not be so problematic if there was a large competition within the booking platforms and one could avoid it on other booking platforms. Mr Tür has put the word monopoly in the mouth. That's not quite right, it's several, but it's an oligopol situation. The real problem we have today, ladies and gentlemen, is that the hoteliers themselves have not managed to create a platform that competes with the existing platforms and does not have the best price clauses. This would actually be the market economy solution. Now the entrepreneurs, the hoteliers, have come to us and have asked for a chance to get out of this dead end – and we do that. We'll make a law and get it out of there. This, ladies and gentlemen, In reality, however, it is only the second best solution. Adam Smith once said that the first thing that entrepreneurs do when a few come together is that they agree on prizes. The lack of platforms has led us, as has been said, to an oligopolistic situation. But I do not want the entrepreneurs to come every time and ask for a change in the law, but in reality we need to draw the lesson from this mess. So, ladies and gentlemen, businessmen, think of market economy and make themselves a suitable platform in time, because the incentive to run as a legislator is to be done on the other hand also with other groups, for example with consumers and so on and so on! We would have to look at the fact that as little as possible we would pass the laws restricting private autonomy, therefore my appeal: Entrepreneurs, think market economy! If it goes, solve your problems on the market! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16070	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16091	Mr President. High house! I am now a little motivated to say something on this issue, because there seems to be misunderstandings about what this is about. To explain it briefly to the audience: If someone is looking for a hotel, he will enter it in Google – very unwarranted. It pops up in a new window a beautiful hotel in the forest district, which costs 100 € per night. He booked everything very comfortable – via Booking.com – for 100 € per night. However, it is as we have heard that Booking.com requires 15 to 20 percent of the booking fee and thus only gets €80. So if you book the same room over the hotel's homepage by 100 € – so it's up to now, because the price must not be undermined – then the hotelier gets exactly 100 €. That is, when booking with Booking.com the hotelier gets 80 €, when booking via his homepage 100 €. It is clear that the hoteliers then say that this is actually unfair. Booking.com does not do much more than move any bits and bytes on the Internet, and then gets 20 percent. This is relatively much for actually no performance. So they go to the legislator and get a nice law. - It all sounds very good. Do you also know - that's what the least know - who deserves it? Did you know that one of the biggest customers of Google Booking.com is? Each year, 2.8 billion are paid to Google, so that this hotel in the Waldviertel is located in the very front of the line when looking for a beautiful hotel in the Waldviertel of Google. Booking.com pays 2.8 billion for that. Very clever could now mean: If Booking.com offers this hotel in the forest district, it costs 100 €; if the same hotel offers the room on its homepage, it could require 80 €, because that's what it actually gets. You know what happens then? – Then, of course, all will book on the homepage and no one will book via Booking.com. Booking.com, however, has to bear the cost of 2.8 billion. You know what happens then? – Then Booking.com will just throw these customers out. So we're back where we were before, namely: that you just can't find this hotel in the forest district outside Austria. This is precisely the reason why one has implemented these plattforms: that someone can find a hotel in the forest district in Japan or elsewhere in his native language. – This enables Booking.com. Now, of course, you can talk about whether the 15, 20 percent is okay. Emotionally, I would say – I know too little about it –: No, that's not all right! But going to make arrangements that these hotels are going to be right back where the starting point was, is also not the right way. The next item is the following: Did you know that Google now wants to do the same as Booking.com and thus Booking.com wants to take away the business model? The preparations have been running for a year and a half! That means Google will take over this business, and then what is it? – Then the individual businesses will be booked through AdWords – I have had a business myself and have spent a fortune on Google – and compete with each other, as is the custom of Google. Then what do we have? – Then we won nothing either, because Google makes it even smarter than Booking.com, Google auctions its AdWords. That is, if you want the hotel to be found in the forest district, then, says Google, you can ride with everyone in the forest district who wants to do so to get the best price by increasing the click. A click costs 10, 15 € – click on it once! Whether or not someone is bending or not, it doesn't matter, once click on it costs 15 €. That's how you come to Google. So if we are already considering what is beneficial for the hoteliers, then I am with Mr Vetter, namely that we have to consider first what the alternatives are before we make a law and simply pour out the child with the bath. That's not smart. Booking.com is a distribution channel, and as you know, we need distribution channels in all possible variants. If we don't want Booking.com as a sales channel, we need alternatives. But what we're doing now is nothing but giving the Booking.com operators the opportunity to throw out all those who offer under price, and therefore everyone will offer at the same price again because they don't want to fly out. This is the law for the fish’! But it sounds good, so – it should be that way – we're making a law that doesn't bring much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16130	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1305 of the Supplements. Who agrees to this bill? – This has been adopted unanimously. Third reading: Who agrees with the draft law in third reading? – This is, in turn, unanimously adopted at the third reading. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on the introduction of a quality partnership for local gastronomy companies. Who agrees to this request? – That is the minority, this request is rejected. [[17:48:51]] 4. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2016/6 (III-269/1311 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16193	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16220	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors report before us highlights the performance of the management of the Burgtheater in the years 2008/2009 to 2013/2014, i.e. mainly under the leadership of Burgtheater Director Hartmann. But not only has the Court of Auditors been concerned in detail with the past of the Burgtheater in recent years, but also our representatives here in the Hohe Haus have on the one hand intensively dealt with the past and on the other hand also intensively with the future of the Bundestheater-Holding and, in particular, the Burgtheater. Our work in the Extraordinary Court of Auditors Subcommittee on the Bundestheater-Holding also made it clear that the Federal Theatres need clear definitions of tasks and of course also responsibilities so that such cases of malversations as they happened in the Burgtheater can no longer occur. This was also the main goal in the preparation of the novelle for the Federal Theatre Organisation Act, which we decided in 2016, I think before the summer. As a result, the framework conditions for the Bundestheater were defined both organisationally and financially, and that is to say, the regulations now provided for provide for clear responsibilities. The reconnaissance of the incidents has also shown that the redundancies expressed in the Burgtheater and in the Bundestheater-Holding have been indispensable due to the facts. The Burgtheater concerning it is still ongoing court proceedings, which is why I do not want to go into them at all. The Court of Auditors is an essential control body of Parliament, so I am pleased that the Court of Auditors' recommendations have already been implemented by the Burgtheater about 90 percent and that the remaining ones are currently in implementation. For example, the establishment of a compliance officer is outstanding. There are already discussions with the Bundestheater Group, which will be completed by the end of the year, then there is also this one. In addition, of course, clear anti-corruption guidelines are already in force. In conclusion, however, I would like to stress one thing: The Bundestheater – including the Staatsoper, the Volkstheater and also the Burgtheater – is an exception in Austrian and also in international cultural life. In addition to the fulfilment of the cultural mission, the Federal Theatres also assume no underestimating impulses for growth, employment and tourism. A 2014 IHS study has shown, for example, that, in terms of public subsidies granted by the State to the Bundestheater pro invested Euro, around 89 percent are directly returned to the public through the operation of the Bundestheater Group. Considerate of Man also the resulting tourist effects, this number increases to up to 141 percent. In addition to the transparent and complete reconnaissance of the incidents in the Burgtheater, it was also an important political goal for us to maintain the Bundestheater as an Austrian lead company with outstanding importance for art and culture, but also tourism and the economy and good jobs, and I believe that we have really succeeded.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16269	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16290	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! About 16 months ago, we discussed here in plenary the final report of the Court of Auditors Subcommittee on Burgtheater. There was agreement among all political groups on the fact that Malversations and systemic failures, which were also clearly recognised in the Committee as such, must lead to the drawing of the right lessons and to the application of them in practice, which are also to the detriment of the taxpayer and the taxpayer. The Court of Auditors, in its very detailed and as usual very precise report, has shown even more clearly than it has previously been articulated, that there has really been the greatest need for action. In a total of 87 points, the Court of Auditors has made recommendations that one should not in fact say to a 100% state-owned company. It says in the recommendations, for example: ‘Legal provisions would be complied with and it would be ensured that deposits and payouts in the books are held daily.’ Or: ‘In case of disbursements, care should be taken to ensure the regularity of the supporting documents.’ Or as a special treat: ‘The economic situation would be correct and legal rules on the management of the books would be complied with.’ In Austria – rightly – we demand from every entrepreneur, from every entrepreneur, from every self-employed and freelancer that he or she comply with the rules of the game. And of these rules of play, say laws, regulations, regulations, we really have enough in Austria. Once, often due to not really well-understandable regulations, there is more or less minor wrongdoing, the hardness of the law immediately increases, and it should therefore be assumed that the state and its subdivisions, or parts thereof, are progressing with a good example. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Thank you. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And then something like this: the Burgtheater, a company in which obviously the concept of corporate governance was very self-contained, a company that put out a whole series of accounting naturalities such as the four-eye principle, a company in which personal decisions were made on legal provisions. What makes me so angry in relation to this scandal is that he gives a bad example that he gives those who comply properly with regulations the feeling of being stupid if they behave in accordance with the order and law, so that the many regulations and regulations then even more than shackles and compulsion are experienced, however they may be useful in individual cases and each may be considered for themselves. All those involved in this scandal have thus contributed a lot to the fact that confidence in the state and its institutions has become a little less. But there is also a good thing to report. The new leadership of the Burgtheater – colleague Hakel has already mentioned this – has made a very rapid effort to eliminate the obvious weaknesses. Therefore, most of the Court’s recommendations have already been implemented or implemented. My thanks to the two managing directors for having done this so quickly and with the necessary care! In addition to the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors in the area of the Burgtheater itself, however, there is also a very clear supervisory failure. If there has been evidence of a lack of liquidity known to the Supervisory Board, which has not caused a reaction, then the term which the Court of Auditors has shaped is that of lack of demand, but is to be regarded as very kind and tolerant. If already in 2009 it was known that the economic situation was precarious and without the intervention of the Supervisory Board there could be an increase in production and therefore of course also a cost increase in the 2011/2012 season, one could also talk about uninterested outlook rather than lack of demand. The inadequate construction of the supervision, which the Court of Auditors also criticised, was repaired in the new Federal Theatre Organisation Act, which should prevent the occurrence of such events in the future. Minister Drozda inherited this scandal from his predecessor. I assume that he will now have a particularly strict eye on the fact that such a scandal can no longer be repeated in his area of responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16366	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16388	Mr President. Mrs Rech-nungshof President! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors and the former President of the Court of Auditors Moser for the excellent report. Our Burgtheater – the best German-speaking theatre, with all its traditions and outstanding artists – should also be treated with special care because of its international significance, but the opposite is the case. This Court of Auditors report reads as an economic crime: Suspect of unfaithful, grossly negligent impairment of creditors' interests, balance sheet counterfeiting, tax evasion combined with carelessness and immeasurable superiority of the responsible persons. So far, we only know who has to pay for the damage, and that is once again the taxpayer. But we do not really know who is responsible for this scandal. The ministers responsible at that time are history, and we do not know what the investigation of the corruption prosecutor's office and court proceedings against the former managing directors will do in the end. The parties want to get out of the affair and pretend they don't have a share of the damage. I only remember the Court of Auditors' subcommittee in which Dr. Georg Springer, who had been the head of the Bundestheater-Holding for decades, joined There was nothing left to remember. This is a really strange approach – and that in a state-owned company, as my previous speaker has already said! On the one hand, our federal government is harassing entrepreneurs with overregulatory maladministration, introduces the registration bank obligation and invents complex fiscal assets annually, which, in particular for SMEs, entails enormous additional administrative and financial effort. On the other hand, however, it is unable or perhaps not willing to take care of order in its own businesses. I ask, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: How would it be done against a private businessman who, when producing and presenting liquidity, does not comply with the principles of ordinary accounting, who has not complied with the proper conduct of business which simply fails to issue certificates in the case of deposits and disbursements which cannot constitute written contracts for services or contracts of contract? – These private entrepreneurs would face the consequences of financial proceedings and criminal law with all the hardness of the law. It's not like it's at the Bundestheaters. For years, it was seen as friend economy and slutting around. The control by the competent ministry has failed, the competent ministers were too long inactive. Minister of Culture Drozda is an expert as a former managing director of the Burgtheater itself. It has to ensure that a legal situation, as proposed by the Court of Auditors, is created immediately. It is very important that further damage is taken away from the image of the Burgtheater and, of course, from the taxpayer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16436	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16457	Mr President. Valuable Court President! Ladies and gentlemen! Our colleague has already pointed out that there has also been a subcommittee on the Bundestheaters, which has already done excellent work a year before, i.e. 2015. I thank all those who were there at the time. If we compare the 2016 Court of Auditors report with the 2015 sub-committee report, we note first of all that everything that the sub-committee discovered at that time has also been revealed by the Court of Auditors. Secondly, there was an official report from Parliament and a minority report from the opposition parties at the time. If you look at the Court of Auditors' report and then at the minority report, you can see that the Court of Auditors' report is closer to what the minority report has revealed, namely a failure at all levels: the management of the castle theatre, as well as the federal theatre, the economic audit societies, the supervisory councils, the ministerial officials and finally the minister. For years this almost strategic suppression of some control instruments, i.e. this lid-over-a-cooking-pot-hold, eventually caused the whole thing to explode. The poor Minister Ostermayer had the task of deciding at the beginning of his work: Hartmann: Yes or no? The director of the Burgtheater has rightly been replaced. The Presiding Minister Schmied was actually involved in the fact that he even got there, where he was at the end, because she had already extended his contract early in 2012, without any need, although she knew which disastrous figures the Burgtheater already had. She even increased his salary and granted him premiums. I have pointed out in the committee – and I repeat this once again, also with regard to you, Madam President of the Court of Auditors – that these premiums are actually not necessary not only at the federal theatres, but also at the federal museums at all. These conductive functions are anyway endowed with exorbitant salaries that can exist in any international comparison. In part, museum directors earn more than the director of the Louvre or the director of the Tate Gallery – these are much larger museums, but no matter what – then the premium payments are added. We're asking ourselves: If there are target agreements, if there are profiles to which the directors have to comply, and if they are actually, according to best knowledge and conscience, to carry out all their tasks in this direction, what do we need premiums for? These were then paid for although the target agreements have not been fulfilled. Minister Ostermayer has therefore replaced the persons, then the director for the Burgtheater, Mrs Bergmann, and a new managing director, Director Königstorfer, have come. Now things seem to work half way. I'm very glad they're running this now. Ostermayer has also re-occupied the Supervisory Board. This was also urgently necessary because the Supervisory Board of course also looked away and this whole box let the stream run down. It has carried out annual accounts which were not coherent and have not been requested in the event of any overrun of the budget. All right, so these people have also been replaced. Wrong occupations can – we know – cause enormous damage. But it is even worse if the control system is not corrected, which could actually have revealed a lot. I believe that former Minister Ostermayer has failed. If he orders exactly the same institution that has set up the disseminating of the Bundestheater to carry out a reform of the laws concerning federal theatre towards control, then he must not be surprised that nothing comes out of it. They said: That's all right anyway, and didn't correct anything in the sense of the control system. The bock has become a gardener. There's still a need to rethink. It really needs to be improved, otherwise it may be that we are experiencing the same thing we had before. This means that the control instruments need to be improved. Mrs. Schlag or Mrs. Hakel pointed out that the compliance guidelines for the Burgtheater will soon be adopted. Yes, the Minister said he'll do it this year. But I can point out that exactly the same statement was made by the Burgtheater a year ago. I cannot explain why compliance guidelines cannot be adopted within a few hours, namely those already available everywhere, in museums, in other theatres, internationally in all possible institutions. So I don't understand. I also do not understand why Parliament cannot take into account the minutes of the Supervisory Board meetings. If that were the case – I asked for it for months and didn’t get it – then we would have had the It's possible to reveal things. Of course, it always says that political change is taken out of it. I admit it: If someone controls something, why shouldn't he have something of it if he finds something and shows that there's a wrong development? In reality, however, it is about Parliament having this control task to prevent a much greater damage to the state, to Austria, to the citizens of the country. I would ask once again for Parliament's rights to be safeguarded and for consultation on the issues of the Bundestheater – not only the holding, but all the theatres – to be granted and made possible again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16521	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16542	Mr President. Madam President. High house! “The fridge is empty, the sparry wine also, I don’t have a schnitzel in my stomach for weeks.” – Better than Thomas Spitzer writes, it can only speak to Klaus Eberhartinger, and these touching words always remind me of the younger management of the Burgtheater – minus the Schnitzel of course. The processing of this meat is starting with the Court of Auditors report of the 2008/2009 financial year, but the question of responsibility should start earlier. In addition to the artistic director and an inactive Supervisory Board, the Court of Auditors sees the commercial managing director as the main responsibility for the actual miser. The names are actually irrelevant in this context. The Court of Auditors shall certify that the head of the company is ineligible as the managing director. So why does this woman end up in this position? – For the search for a successor to the business manager, a staff consulting firm was assigned, and this was in place 1 and place 2 of each external advisor. The later business manager or managing director was rowed to third place, with the addition: only one interim solution can be. The client tried to make a rounding or a pre-arrangement in place 2b, i.e., after places 1 and 2a comes 2b, which was nominally the second place. This was in conjunction with the argument that the lady was the only applicant for Austrian labour law, so to speak, to have her in this job. However, this decisive criterion, to be familiar with Austrian labour law, has only been subsequently entered or added into the tender, and only then, when it actually became decisive and led to this decision. Why is such a thing done? That's the question! Why are these criteria amended shortly before the end? This question is also being examined by the Public Procuratorate's Office. The consequences are known, and they are serious. We have heard this many times, and I have only recently had to deal with it. These things that happened to me make me speechless. I repeat a few things from a very long list: As of 2007/2008, the capital of foreign capital increased from €11 million to €30 million in the following four years. The equity has fallen from € 15 million to € 10 million at this time. In the 2009/2010 financial year alone, the Burgtheater exceeded its budget by 91.5 percent. However, the Supervisory Board did not deal with this overrun until 2013. For the past 15 years, I have been active in several managements. I sold my company, too. [[Abg. Wheeler: Successful?]] - Please? [[Abg. Wheeler: Successful?]] – I managed it successfully and sold it successfully. Thank you for asking me, Mr Rädler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The company is still there, it has 140 employees, they are doing well, we all pay good taxes and social insurance. But if I had done what the management of the Burgtheater did, the new owners would have fired me right away. It goes further: The Supervisory Board not only did not check striking deviations in time, it also satisfied itself with incomplete revision reports, which, for example, contained only between 10 and 20 percent of the investments. There were no demand for planned deviations of liquidity of up to €1.3 million over the years. I am now also in the Supervisory Board of a small AG. We meet every quarter. We discuss in detail with the Executive Board what figures are on the table each quarter. In real life, what happened in the Burgtheater is unthinkable. In total, the Burgtheater paid more than €21 million in the form of accounts to employees. There was no evidence for 80 percent of these bookings. Skill You're imagining that? No evidence! Honors were paid out without a fee. A total of around € 13 million was paid out in the financial years 2008/2009 to 2013/2014 without any comprehensible evidence – which also led to no delimitations at the end of the year – on the basis of oral contracts. Have you – those who run a company – ever had a GPLA? There is always something to be found, you have to argue for any honorary note from any Freelancer. You definitely have a deposit. The Burgtheater was examined at this time – that was, I think, not a GPLA, but a tax check – and had a few thousand euros extra payment. It had a few thousand euros in these million amounts! The artistic director has paid for his author's work and his directing work as an independent activity with more than €110 000 in addition to the Gage, although he has also received a salary for the same activities. In addition, this Gage, I believe, has been increased by more than 30 percent, while the consumer price index has only increased by 6 percent at this time. The award of service cards to works councils was excessive. During the examination period, a total of 41 000 cards with a value of € 1.5 million were handed over to the works council by Burgtheater GmbH, which is only the face value of these cards. If one assumes that the Burgtheater is supported to 85 percent, that means that these cards actually had a value of € 10 million. This reference to monetary benefits or benefits from service relationships has, I believe, not even been taxed – apart from the fact that this grant has naturally been made through taxpayers. The former business manager has also paid off €9 000 or a little more for unconsumed leisure, as it says, without any legal rights, in disregard of the four-eye principle in August 2008. At this point no one needs to come to me with the comparison of the poor supermarket cashier. That's redistribution from bottom to top, what's happening there! If Minister Drozda then thinks that the Burgtheater was the best-tested house, then I can point to another knowledge of the Court of Auditors: Indeed, as required by law, annual audits were carried out on a regular basis, whose task was to review the principles of economy, economy and effectiveness. However, these reviews did not include the incorrect statements in the annual accounts or the lack of the internal control system or any other of the above-mentioned developments, but noted that “all procedures and controls were properly observed and effective; the principles of economy, effectiveness and efficiency were respected in all areas.” It is difficult to understand how Minister Drozda can use such incorrect tests as a reference. This list could be extended very, very long. It was a long time with representatives of the Court of Auditors whom I had with my colleagues. Finally, it was added that there were recommendations which, to a large extent, were actually implemented. That's a good thing to say. However, it has not been implemented all the time, but it is still committed to the payment of cash amounts. This has now decreased by 80 percent, but a quarter of a million euros will still be paid in cash. The question is how to justify this. The Burgtheater states that the issue of service cards – you remember about the Works Council, 41 000 were issued there – should be re-regulated. Why this takes so long, no one can explain. Mr Zinggl mentioned that it takes more than a year to produce a compliance directive. That's ridiculous, it's not rocket science. This is in many, many areas. You can just copy that, you can customize it. It may not only take one day, but let's say from me once, it takes a week when someone else reads correction. The Burgtheater may be the best-tested house, and I don't know what Malversation means, but I finally want to quote a great philosopher: Even if you check a bar, that doesn't mean that the dirt has also been missed out. – I think it was Parmenides.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16603	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16624	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One gets the impression that the government is not going to give up any wrongs until otherwise. This seems to be the case with the Causa Burgtheater, as already in 2009/2010 there was a huge deviation from the financial plan by overburdening the €6.33 million budget approved for productions by €5.82 million. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to address this again. This fact, especially this number, has to be seen once in the face of this high excess. The Supervisory Board, which also belonged to Georg Springer, apparently didn't care. This is also reflected in the report and, as has been said, much later on. In 2013 the budget exceeded and the other misunderstandings dealt with. The unexplained cash payments for non-explainable services were openly tolerated. Where is there such a thing? Where can you do such a thing? Those responsible have paid out money in disregard of the simplest rules. Many previous speakers have already mentioned that there have been a number of failures. There was a lack of simple control of the financial situation. This case, ladies and gentlemen, is truly unique, I think, this case can be described as unique. Let's go back to history: What happened then? – Minister Ostermayer could not look away at the time and commissioned a special audit of the Court of Auditors, which we are discussing today. But you could have saved everything if it hadn't happened. In retrospect, of course, one has always failed, but especially if the rules had been complied with, one could have saved a lot. Every football club, every music club has to comply with rules. But this does not apply to the Burgtheater, and it seems that this is not a problem. In my opinion, the audit of the Court of Auditors was – and that is what we can say – an alibi action to preserve public appearance: Minister Ostermayer is acting, he is handing it over to the Court of Auditors, he is carrying out a special audit, and it is all right. The scandal about the Burgtheater, my dear ladies and gentlemen, came by no means surprising, for they knew who had been assigned there as director. That was Matthias Hartmann, someone who doesn't think much of financial control. That's how he meant it. April 2009 at his first conference on the agenda press in Vienna, “In Zurich, he was most recently asked for expenditure and budget figures, what he did” – quote: Quotes – “Hanging out to the neck. ” Hartmann’s aversion to an ordinary financial event is also the subject of a recently published “profile” interview with the Vienna-based castle actor Heribert Sasse. ‘Profile’ asks: “Don’t you find it dubios when Hartmann thinks he shouldn’t be interested in balance sheets as a castle chief?” The Burgspieler's answer: "That was too hot. I told him too. 50 percent of an agent’s work is commercial – art costs!” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by referring to the Annual Report 2014/2015 of the Bundestheater-Holding, because there is the following on the cover: “The importance of KULTUR cannot be measured solely by its economic WERT.” – If you respond to a financial scandal like this, you have unfortunately not understood that it is the taxpayers' money, that it is the taxpayers' hard-earned money, and if I look at this motto on the cover of the Annual Report, I must unfortunately fear that it was not the last scandal at the federal theatres. I hope it's not, but unfortunately it's not excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16683	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16706	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is nothing to beautify – nor anything of what was said by the previous speakers – that is no question. The work of this Causa Burgtheater has been working on us for several years now, including in a separate subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions, which has also worked intensively with the ministers who have been invited, looking for responsibilities. It was gratifying – I see this a little different from Mrs. Schenk – that Minister Ostermayer himself, hardly having taken up the office, turned on the Court of Auditors. In addition to all the work we have done, it has taken two years to complete the report, but it has summarized the findings that we have already had and, I think, has listed the necessary steps in the demands. It is therefore important that we do everything – and I think, given what has been done by those responsible so far, one can say that these steps have also been taken – that such a thing cannot happen as much as possible. No one or hardly anyone – after that, of course, there are a lot of people who know it better – has only almost suspected that, until the scandal hits up, in a woman who was called the soul of the house or the heart of the theatre, such a degree of criminal energy – I quote what the people have said. Nikolaus Alm has already explained a large part of the list. I would like to point out an example, just to illustrate how this work was done and where politics itself – I say quite consciously – is almost powerless when staff are displaying such criminal energies, as they have been listed in part now – I quote – as follows: “The former artistic director” commissioned “the former business manager in July 2009 [...] to deposit cash of EUR 273,000 in the main bank of Burgtheater GmbH. After that, this amount was missing and, as the Court of Auditors has exaggerated noblely, “without adequate documentation, it had left the wealth sphere of Burgtheater GmbH.” – As it has been noted, it has landed in the safer of the mother of the commercial director. It has already been mentioned: The four-eye principle has been constantly disregarded, millions of payments have been carried out without legal basis and evidence, and liquidity has been falsified. There are infinitely many long lists of such machinations. I mean, the then Minister of Culture Ostermayer responded immediately and consistently after becoming known. After the business manager had already been released and announced in autumn 2013, Burgdirector Matthias Hartmann was released and, as I think, put a competent and highly qualified woman in his place with Mrs. Karin Bergmann. The appointment of Günter Rhomberg as interim chief of the holding was also an absolutely right decision; I think that we were also able to convince ourselves of this in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. Budgetary control has also been separated from the management of the budget as recommended by the Court of Auditors. At the same time, as mentioned above, Josef Ostermayer has instructed the Court of Auditors to deal intensively with the issue, and we have discussed this report in the Committee in July and here today, which is really fast for an Court of Auditors. report if we can deal with him here already. I think that with the new presentation of the Court of Auditors reports, we can guarantee that these countries will land in the house faster in the future. To me, it was of particular importance, I would like to say that the Federal Minister, Thomas Drozda, has now been able to answer the crucial questions in concrete terms. These questions concern the state of implementation of the Court's 87 recommendations, the state of the open criminal and working procedures, whether, due to structural reform at the federal theatres, such a thing can never happen again at human discretion, and whether the financial security for the Bundestheater is given due to the increase in the basic charge. Ladies and gentlemen, as sad as this scandal may be, I am sure that everything has been done and will be done in the future so that in the future such an economy can no longer be repeated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16764	Mr Angerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16786	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the cultural achievements of the Burgtheater should not be questioned, but we are talking about business in this house. And the question has been asked who is responsible for this damage and for this painting. – I say the answer is quite simple: You, Mr. Mayer! Not you personally, but as a Social Democratic Party, you bear the responsibility for this damage and for this painting. You have already read a few things from this report today, such as the fact that payments have been made in millions, without having a proof of it, or that money from the cash register, as it was so beautifully described, has “left the wealth sphere of Burgtheater GmbH”. That is, someone obviously got it without being allowed to do so, and then he left no evidence when he took it out. Obviously, these are only continuations of things that were common there. Let's see who was managing director there until 2008! That was the Minister of Culture today, Mr Drozda. And then, in the report, I read the following – and now I read to you two pieces: The former business manager “payed €9,400 in addition to the four-eye principle in August 2008 for non-consumed leisure.” – So for unconsumed leisure time, I would also like to have €9,400. Second cup: “Burgtheater GmbH was in 2008” – that is, at a time when Mr Drozda was still managing director – “premiums amounting to a total of EUR [...] 40,000 to the two members of the Executive Board, without binding them to the achievement of certain objectives set by the owner.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] So obviously it was already going on there and would have been that you see this castle theatre as a self-service store, and your current minister was then managing director in this house. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Mayer: You know that's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And if she says today that she has the hope in Minister Drozda that such events do not happen anymore, in a castle theatre in which he was then managing director, then I have to say – I don't want to call it ridiculous now – that is almost a dangerous threat. When I asked Mr Drozda in the Court of Auditors whether he would also have the Court of Auditors examine the period of his activity there, so that perhaps even unwarranted accusations, now also by me, could be removed from the world, was the answer to my second question: No, he won't let that happen. [[Abg. Wheeler: Why not?]] - I don't know! I don't know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] And who was the competent minister? - The Claudia Schmied! Ms Claudia Schmied was Minister in charge from 2007 to 2013. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] We also know Mrs Claudia Schmied from the municipal credit, where she was on the board of directors, and in her time, the municipal credit, which we also see in the Court of Auditors report, caused a damage of €12 billion by nationalization. [[Abg. Rädler: Lauter Expert!]] We don't know yet whether the hypo will cost so much, but at the municipal credit we know that it cost €12 billion, and nobody talks about it here. [[Abg. Singer: That's true!]] She's always being pushed aside. Before the ÖVP rejoices too early: If the Court of Auditors were to examine the period before, perhaps we would also have the ÖVP with it, because at the time, Mrs Elisabeth Gehrer was responsible, since 1995. So I would be pleased if you would agree to our request and the Court of Auditors at the Burgtheater would also review the time before Mr Drozda, that is, before 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16898	Madam President, Mr Kraker has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The opposite examination, which we are dealing with here today, is based on an examination request from the Federal Minister Dr. Ostermayer. The audit and the report were already carried out on 20 July. I would therefore like to take a few points into account in the Court of Auditors' deliberations in October, and today I would like to point out – even in front of the entire House – that the Burgtheater was disregarded by the members of the Executive Board who had now been discharged of all the principles of proper business conduct. Thus, in the truest sense of the word, all the rules of art were removed. These abuses affected the Burgtheater so massively that, with a negative equity of around €10 million in the 2012/2013 financial year, the insolvency indebtedness could only be reversed by a statement of the cartridges of the Bundestheater-Holding GmbH and by the creation of a positive continuation forecast. You should be careful with superlatives, but there are just tests that can surprise you, and here is a superlative fitting. Let me focus very briefly on the three key areas of problem. The first was the non-compliance with budgetary requirements and the complete negation of economic conditions. The liabilities of Burgtheater GmbH quadrupled by the end of 2012/2013, and equity decreased by almost €26 million to the said minus €10 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] These are just two examples of this economic development, for which the management, which has now been released, was responsible. Secondly, What I want to highlight is – and this can be learned for the future – the complete failure of all control instruments at different levels. What do I mean by that? – It is about the functioning internal control system, a four-eye control system, an comprehensible and documented personnel management that is needed in such a company. These were control concepts that were not applied in this case in the Burgtheater. And there were failures on the part of the Management Board, on the Supervisory Board, also from the external auditors, where things were not held accordingly, and finally by the Bundestheater-Holding. One has the impression that control there was a foreign word. Thirdly, cash payouts were juggled, accounts were unusual, and, of course, private and service spheres were mixed rather than mixed. In this way, the true economic situation in the company was masked. Overall, therefore, the Court’s decision to deal with cash and accounts entailed an increased risk of corruption and losses. What I would like to stress is that the Court of Auditors places particular emphasis on anti-corruption and compliance measures, and this also pro-futuro. The Court's recommendations on the occasion of its examination at the Bundestheater-Holding GmbH in 2013 on compliance points remain valid. This concerns the creation of a general catalogue of values, the establishment of a compliance officer and the reporting of infringements of the Anti-Corruption Directive. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make a short break here to the current programme in the Burgtheater. At present, the piece “The Revisor” by Nikolai Gogol is running, and from that I would like to quote the following sentence: [[Abg. Moser: tailor-made!]] “I have prayed you here to make an unsavory announcement to you: a revisor is on our way.” To talk to Gogol: I plan to come and examine with revisors to the Bundestheater Group in the future, and the revisor will be kept to the house even after the end of the game. I am of course pleased by the Court of Auditors when the recommendations of the Court of Auditors which we have made in our report are largely implemented. In a follow-up review we look for the examination of the Bundestheater-Holding GmbH mentioned above, and a review of ART for ART Theaterservice GmbH is also planned. Finally, what I would like to hold – and I really ask you to understand this from the Court of Auditors’ point of view: When the Court of Auditors examines, it never makes alibi audits, but it works very seriously on the facts and recommendations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e16964	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Opinion on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-269 of the supplements. Who agrees to this request? – This is unanimously accepted. [[18:36:47]] 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2014/8 (III-78/1312, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17007	Now we're on the 5th. Agenda item. First of all, Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17031	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! High house! I refer to the sub-report “Capital Boards – Explosive Sizes and Efficiency”. This is a cross-sectional examination in the countries of Styria and Lower Austria, but also in the Federal Republic of Germany, and as a steward, I would like to take a closer look at the test of Styria's main district teams, where efficiency and size have been taken into consideration. There was criticism on the one hand, on the other hand praise, and I would like to begin with the praise. The district mergers in 2012 and 2013 have already made direction-setting steps towards cost reduction in the Styria region. As a side-game, I would like to mention Knittelfeld and Jüdenburg, who became the district of Murtal in 2012, and in 2013 Bruck and Mürzzuschlag as well as Hartberg and Fürstenfeld were assembled. From Feldbach and Radkersburg the district of Südoststeiermark became. This is intended to save € 10 million a year in the long term, and the auditors considered the said savings volume to be realistic. However, there was criticism because the full savings potential would not be used because parallel administrative structures would continue to be maintained in the combined districts. That is to say, the remaining district captains, who are now being run as foreign offices, differ only minimally from the District Headship itself in their field of responsibility. Furthermore, it was noted whether it was actually necessary to maintain Gröbming as an exhibit of the Liezen district. Another criticism was the construction equipment-related properties: There should be a significant increase in the number of communities that transfer the competences to the district's main teams. In the Styria this is just a little more than a quarter. Finally, because my speaking time is about to come, I would also like to address the negotiated financial compensation. There will be cost comparisons between local authorities for the first time. This is an essential and correct and important step in the future, for it can also be seen, for example, why a district headquarters team is more economical than others, and one can also draw consequences from it. In general, I do not think anything about disbanding District Headships, because I already believe that the proximity to the citizen is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17068	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17090	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High House! I am also referring to the Court of Auditors' report, in which District Head Teams in Lower Austria and Styria have been analysed. The examination period was from 2008 to 2013. The aim was to identify the cost and efficiency elements of bras, in particular whether and to what extent there is a link between population and costs per population, and to analyse the optimal level of authority. Little surprising is the realization that small bras, always related to the inhabitants, of course have higher personnel costs than large bras; this is little over-rapiding. What is the starting situation in Lower Austria? – We have 21 bras in total, four magistrates with very different structures. This starts with Lilienfeld with 26 000 inhabitants and then goes in districts such as Amstetten or Baden with well over 120,000 inhabitants. The first clear finding – that large bras have lower personnel costs per head than small ones – could be said to be consistent: Then we just put together small bras, then we organized the management more efficiently! Personally, I believe that this cannot be the access, because it is precisely these things that need to be analysed much more differentiated. For example, if you look at Lower Austria, it is so that the federal state of Lower Austria also develops very differently in itself. We have this west axle of St. Valentin–Amstetten–St. Pölten along the West motorway, basically a prosperous space. There we have company settlements, population growth, good infrastructure. A similar picture can be seen, of course, in the large area of Vienna: the famous bacon belt. We have the southern axis, the area Baden, Wiener Neustadt, also very prosperous, and of course corresponding impulses in the area of the North motorway towards the Czech Republic. But we also have structurally weak rooms: This is the southernmost quarter, which is the southern industrial quarter, which are parts of the forest district, parts of the wine district. It is very interesting to look at where the five smallest bras are – in Waidhofen at the Thaya, Horn, Lilienfeld, Zwettl and Scheibbs – because it is clear that these five bras are in the weak areas. If one were to put in place efficiency measures, that would mean closing individual bras, and one would weaken areas that are already structurally weak even further – and I do not think that this could be the task of a responsible policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Mrs Moser, I found this very interesting, you said: Let's put the bras together, then they're more efficient, and then you'll get regional promotion again! – This cannot be political access, but we need these institutions on the ground, because they are very, very important. It is important to consider another aspect. It is said that building together is more efficient and sometimes forgets that investment costs are naturally incurred at the new location. It is forgotten that services for citizens will not be reduced, but that they will have to be provided with the same services. And one forgets that one also needs appropriate re-use concepts for the emptiness that would arise at an old location. In other words, we are very careful when it comes to such efficiency measures, because they lead to a weakening of already structurally weak spaces. would be. And I am also very pleased with the clear commitment of the country of Lower Austria to ensure uniform development in the country. What are the approaches to improve efficiency? – These are centres of competence, not a question at all. It does not have to offer each bra every single service. Since competences to bundle and divide into individual bras makes sense, it is already implemented in reality. I am still very important to me in the field of digitalization. We should, of course, take advantage of the opportunities that arise in the area of the District Headquarters. In conclusion, one thing is important to me, which is a bit of a personal experience: I personally know the bra amstetten very well, this is a very large bra that does excellent work. We are always talking about the type-approval procedures which do not work. That 95.98 percent work, you talk less about it. I have had a lot to do with the Bra Scheibbs last year, a very small bra, and I can say that there is excellent, very close-to-bourgeois work being done. Every single project you apply to this bra is treated very, very friendly, and solutions are being developed in close contact with the citizens. For me, this is also a quality mark of the small county captains. In that sense, I believe, one must always deal with these questions very carefully, because it is about regions, because it is about people who are affected on the ground, but of course you can – and always – think about efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17175	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17196	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Hanger, when you talk there, you almost make me laugh because I am surprised that a party in two federal states can be so different. What happened to us in the Styria, that was a little too fast for us all, because of the exaggeration of speed, many mistakes have happened; but against you low-Austrian concrete peg blacks are already black reform jet hunters. So that's really incredible. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You should finally put off your scams and see, in the administration you can save this and that. That is also the meaning and purpose of the whole. It has also been a long-standing liberal demand in the Styria, just as one has done, it may not have been the most skilled variant, because, as said, to break everything over the knee in the shortest time, that has led to some uncertainty and, of course, also errors. Mrs Gessl-Ranftl! In principle, I do not think that it makes sense to erase district captains. If you're talking about proximity, I think the bras may be less of the nearby institutions. I think it is more task of local communities to do such things, and I think that the interface of community/bra is also expandable. What happened in the Styria now? – Certainly, it was a reasonable idea to bring together the district headquarters mentioned by the colleague. In my opinion, the shortcoming of time was a mistake. As a result, there has been uncertainty among the staff, the population has felt inadequately informed, which was also true. When it comes to such things, You have to take the population on the road, take it on the trip. That means for me, fusion management, if you want to call it that, didn't work. You can control all of this a little more time-consuming. It was, of course, a very critical situation for employees in particular, and they asked themselves: What happens to me now? Then suddenly I'm on the street? or whatever. Whatever was not done, and that would have been the chance: In the case of a merger or merger of administrative units, one could have looked at the tasks that will be done with it, because if one unit is to be grouped together, one might save a few offices, but the people do not get rid of it either, it is always public officials. There would have been a chance to do that. What else happened? – Both buildings still exist in the former districts. We now have a bra as the main office so to speak, and the second, the former, is now a so-called civil service agency, which could have been saved because of the yet reasonable routes of 20 kilometres on average – I think it is reasonable for everyone, especially in our region in which well-developed infrastructure is present. Why you've done this, I don't quite understand, there's certainly still potential. In advance, one should have set up something like a building management. If I know I'm putting two units together, I need to know what I'm doing with the other building, whatever re-use options there are, whether renting, selling or anything else. Both buildings are very well located, from which you could certainly have done something reasonable. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. There will be a lot to discuss or do. Finally, I say: It is a fundamental requirement that one should be separated in the administrative area, the way to it was not quite done, but finally we are all satisfied with a functioning bra, and that is the important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17260	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17281	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! How big, do you think, is the difference between the Styria and Lower Austria, which leads to the rise of expenditure for district head teams? [[towards ÖVP]] Who really read the report? Test question! [[Abg. Hanger: Mrs Colleague, there were the investment costs inside!]] – Yes, I’m just quoting the Court of Auditors report and taking only that number. We can go into detail anyway. Can you answer me? - Yes, sure! [[Call the ÖVP: Is that a question hour?]] I asked a question, and he immediately spoke, and he will be so kind to give an answer. How big is the difference? [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Zanger! I'm sure you know, but I'm saying it myself. The increase in Lower Austria between 2008 and 2011 was plus 20 percent. [[Abg. Hanger: Mrs Colleague, investment costs! You must not confuse: current costs and investment costs!]] In the same period, 2008 to 2012, there was a 1 per cent increase in costs in Styria. [[Abg. Hanger: You can't compare that!]] – Yes, these are also investments, but you too will not dispute it, and you have also said it here, Mr Commissioner: An increase in efficiency is possible, and it is also possible to increase the efficiency of the District Head Teams. And you know just as I do – that's why I'm not asking you, I'm telling you that you know this, even though I am. Of course, you can also ask and you could examine – that Lower Austria could have saved 12 million €. 12 million! We are now in your argument, Mr Hanger: If I want to carry out regional support if I want to strengthen the peripheral districts, economic policy – that is, your party’s asset – is not the outstanding instrument for maintaining district captains. I have not yet read that the maintenance of district head teams is an economic policy measure for the recovery of the regions, but it is usually a support programme for special institutions that can be a good stand for this region in economic policy. I have to do things differently, not by maintaining district captains. I could just as well install a few more dishes, maybe create some additional dorotheum facilities. Yes, all of this creates jobs, all of which may be strengthening a region, only economic policy is a smearing. [[Abg. Hanger: We are already satisfied if nothing is taken away!]] It's an economic policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We would like to discuss a Court of Auditors report here – thanks to you, Madam President, or your predecessor, and also to the staff of the Court of Auditors – which is very consciously exemplary in one example, only on the example of County Headships, shows how to shape administration: on the one hand, relatively efficient in Styria, on the other hand, in Lower Austria with its heart somewhat inefficient for the regions. I now come from this example to a general conclusion, which can also be read in the Court of Auditors' report, namely: What do we need to improve now? I only take the suggestions for improvement for the Federation, the others I leave in the country. What is to be done to make it work better at the administrative level so that the backbone of the federal administration, which is the district headquarters de facto, will get even better? The recommendation is that the Federal Government should provide clear guidelines on how to implement laws, because there is a relatively large scope for implementation, and that is also an inefficiency, which is above all an inequality between citizens on the ground. At the federal level, we have to ensure that in each individual ministry where the relevant laws are made, it is clearly defined how they are then to be implemented by the commercial authority or the youth welfare system – which is, however, the country matter – or in the case of minimum security. I am now no longer at the points in which the federal government needs to improve, but in general on the question: District Head Team is Administration, administration should actually be administrative reform. The state reform – it was now also such a side chapter – has been settled in the financial compensation process – has remained on the track again. This is an endo chapter since I was in this Parliament. Mr Auer, you have been here for a long time, you know, the state reform has been accompanying us for years and days and is always a moloch – I deliberately call it: a moloch – where three-digit millions of amounts are simmering annually – Mrs Fekter, you know it very well from your time as a Minister of Finance – through double-tracking, through double-competence, through inefficiencies. And the bras are just a small piece of it, are only a tiny iceberg compared to the giant iceberg, which there is still due to these federalismal structural outcasts, which we have not been able to change until today. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, your comparison with the ‘revisor’ on the previous point is very humorous, but the ‘revisor’ is also a comedy, but the Court of Auditors has a very serious task. The Court of Auditors is more than a revisor, the Court of Auditors is an adviser, and please take its advice on state reform seriously at last! This is an appeal to ourselves, for we are the Members who make the laws. The county captains are a start, but it's actually about more. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17385	The next speaker was Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17406	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! The President of the Court of Auditors has invited us to the “revisor” in so far as it is concerned; Duration: 4 hours 30 minutes, currently in the Burgtheater, with two breaks. The piece of colleagues Hanger was rather in the kind of Nestroy: ‘He wants to make a jux himself’; Duration: exactly 4 minutes 34 seconds. The title could also be: The Court of Auditors proposes something, Mr Pröll calls on his Lower Austrian members of the ÖVP, sends them out, and after 4 minutes 34 seconds the whole debate on reform is over! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] That is to say, we can no longer hold a meaningful discussion now, because Mr Hanger and Mr Strasser, who have called in between, and all other Lower Austrian EIA delegates are of the opinion: I can't! Uniting districts doesn't work. Uniting district captains doesn't work! [[Abg. Hanger: You didn't watch that!]] The first argument was close to the citizen, I heard. [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] – Closeness to citizens also came. I believe that closeness to the citizen is unproblematic. And the second argument was the structurally weak regions. So I didn't understand, maybe you'll explain to me exactly why the region, just because it may not have any more district headquarters – I was just in Scheibbs recently – then it was supposed to be even more structurally weak. [[Abg. Hanger:... scheibbs!]] I find that to be somewhat problematic. [[Abg. Hanger: Because there are many jobs because it is purchasing power!]] With these brief arguments, with these very clear arguments, all that the Court of Auditors has proposed has been wiped out of the table with a wipe. And there are a lot of sensible proposals in there. Mrs Moser has already mentioned how absurdly high the cost increases in Lower Austria are compared to the Styria. You just need to look at this very explicitly. Although we know that the cost of the district captains is just under 2% of the national budget, within the general government expenditure, this is a quarter. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You only need to read “today” today, in which I made suggestions on how to discuss it. The Court of Auditors has also pointed out how to look at this. These are the district headquarters in which less than 40 000 inhabitants live, because there are costs, personnel costs relative to the population, two thirds higher than those of large district capital teams, namely those of districts with over 80 000 inhabitants. This could save you almost €12 million a year, including future pension expenses. That's something! - Obviously not. The Court of Auditors is wrong, Mr Hanger is right. The ÖVP Lower Austria knows better than the Court of Auditors. This is also an interesting approach. In any case, I believe in the Court of Auditors' report. We see that €12 million is possible in savings, and the Court of Auditors is proposing explicitly to evaluate once again across the country, which would be the optimal size of the district so that we can then look at how we can continue to deal with the Lower Austrian districts. There you can redesign districts that already exist, differently. You could think about it all. I am fully aware that there are structurally weak regions, but you can still see if you can reassemble districts. The fact is that there are savings potential, and we continue to be obliged, through the Court of Auditors, to deal with the tax resources of the Austrians, and that is what we should do. There is nothing to be done if the representatives of the ÖVP Lower Austria go out of here and say first of all to a sensible proposal for savings: That doesn't work, we don't do that because the head of state doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17487	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17508	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The District Head Teams perform important state tasks within the framework of the classical Highness Administration. They are the main contact points for first instance administrative matters. The expenditure for the District Head Teams amounted to about one quarter of the expenditure of the general administration. From this point of view, the question is justified: How can public administration be made more cost-effective? It is only then, if it becomes cheaper for the citizen, that is what I think such considerations make sense. But so far – this is the opinion of our group – no administrative simplification has been able to achieve a more cost-effective solution for the citizen. However, the Court of Auditors does not address this, and the opinion on this report is also a little more critical and not as positive as the Court of Auditors' reports, because: It will not cost the car registration, nor will the exhibition of the passport be cheaper – so no cost savings. There is much to be done in this report. On the question of what the Court of Auditors' views of the future design of the explosive size of a district headquarters, there is no such statement in this report. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition, the Court of Auditors does not separate the tasks of the District Headquarters as the administrative criminal authority from the tasks of the District Headship as an approval authority. It should also be noted that the term Effi- see in the report not defined in connection with the District Headquarters. What is in all cases necessary and what must happen is that you just separate the tasks or do a job shattering. The tasks that are rarely fulfilled by them are to be relieved of district captains. I would like to give an example of this: the approval of the construction and operation of railways to railways. There are only around 800 active connecting stations in Austria, and it is logical, of course, that not every district headquarters team can have an expert for it. There would be a proposal that this should be done by specialists – for example, specialists in railway law – so that this area should be transferred to the Ministry of Transport. Unfortunately, I have also missed this proposal in this report, and it has not been dealt with – or perhaps it has been overlooked, no idea. It is therefore important, first and foremost, that the task of the District Head Teams be shattered before taking other steps. Just put together for the sake of aggregation – so that not every employee sits in an office, but then all sit together in a larger office – that is, I don't think, meaningful and not in the sense of efficiency. There's, I think, a lot more to do. This report will not be so positive by us, as you have been able to read from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17563	Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17584	Mr President. Madam President. High house! Reform discussions have been held for years – in the public service, in the administration and in public institutions, often in such a way that the pressure for reform comes from outside and the interior is not given. And as long as this is so, we will discuss for a long time – Mrs. Dr. Moser mentioned this in her speech. Interestingly, the reform ideas are either at the bottom or at the top. The communities are meant by “all below” when one sees the hierarchical structure – we all know the discussion about community mergers and community cooperations, even today these topics have already been strongly discussed – and by “all the above” the federal level is meant: the state reform, the administrative reform, the e-government and so on. The national level, which is in between, seems to be completely excluded, but there is also potential for optimization. Let us just think of the current, high-quality negotiation on minimum security! The Court of Auditors' audit shows that efficiency is also possible in this area. I am also aware that there are, also in our ranks, some advocates for the abolition of bras, but I do not accept that. As a former mayor, I greatly appreciated the responsibilities of the bras, especially our natural ones, and her know-how. For example, there was always a good consensus with the municipality on complex issues relating to the facilities. This does not mean, however, that bras should be excluded from reform discussions, and especially not the countries. I also believe that the explosive size is only one of the factors that can be used for the assessment, Mr Scherak. I would like to have several factors. In addition, there is a wealth of other factors, such as task orientation. So my credo is: If reforms in the public sector, then at all levels! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17626	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17648	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I would also like to say a few things to the bras and first of all I would like to thank all the employees of the bras. One thing is certain: The tasks are increasing, and – I know from my bra – the staff is not being increased. That means that the employees are increasingly under pressure, and more and more efficiency is required of them – therefore, from my side a warm thanks to all officials! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, efficiency improvements should always be questioned, and I am therefore very grateful for the very interesting report, which of course can also be the basis for all federal states to make savings. However, I would also like to take a closer look at the two countries that have been examined, the Styria and the Lower Austria. There have been many smaller districts in Styria, unlike Lower Austria, and the Court of Auditors has also found that the districts of the size range between 20 000 and 40 000 inhabitants are very expensive. I think the Styria has gone the right way for itself. Lower Austria, for example, which has larger districts, has left the whole under the premise of decentralization and has created centres of competence. And I think this is a common path that we are also trying to go to Upper Austria. I can currently report from Upper Austria that Eferding and Grieskirchen are being merged into an administrative community. What does that mean? – The citizens were asked how they stood for this merger, and one was in the first place: They do not want to give up the district, they want to leave the district, that is very important to them, but they do not have anything against an administrative community if a civil service office remains. And that, I think, is the right way: You always have to take the citizens with you because each district is differently knitted, the size is different. I therefore believe that we are on a good path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] [[Abg. Prince: There you must first come to the Styria where we are already in Upper Austria!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] Yes, as is always the case with these Court of Auditors reports: I think it's not that simple. The figures can be presented very easily, but in practice, it is unfortunately much more difficult to implement. And when you put the whole thing on the churches, you can only see how difficult it is. However, I would like to take up another byword from Mr Zanger, because this will also play a greater role in the future: The tasks also in the communities are increasing, and the restrictions between the bras and the municipalities will certainly play a greater role in the future, and the tasks of the bras will also increase in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17725	President. — I call Mr Preiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17746	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors reviewed the District Head Teams in Styria and Lower Austria during the 2008 to 2012 reporting period. This is a thank you to the officials! The district headquarters are important service facilities and provide services within the framework of the indirect federal administration in rural regions. A number of financial savings have been made through the mergers and disbandments of district headquarters, for example in the Styria region. It is not allowed to move from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler. One thing is clear: The focus must be on the specificity of the individual rural regions, so that the best result in the service is also achieved in a sustainable way for the rural population. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has also addressed appropriate ways of improving efficiency. I would just like to mention here that a service catalogue is to be drawn up, that there should be more intensive cooperation between the District Head Teams. This is very positive. I also recall a statement by Mrs Moser in the committee, who asked the question: To what extent is it necessary by the federal government to create jobs in the administration in the less-favoured rural regions, or to what extent should the federal government do so? – My opinion: I say very clearly yes, of course, with regard to digitization and its expansion, broadband expansion, Industry 4.0. Services in rural areas must not be subject to the provision of services in urban areas. Therefore: There is no ballast in the rural regions! I would also like to make an appeal to Minister of Finance Schelling, namely that the Bruck financial office at Leitha, in cooperation with the financial offices Oberwart and Eisenstadt, should continue to exist. This too is an essential service facility for the citizens of the region. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We must not forget, as a people's representative, that, of course, we are there for people in rural regions – and not vice versa! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17786	The next speaker is Mr Ottenschlager. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17808	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I refer briefly to the Court of Auditors' report on the registers in the main association of the Austrian social security funds. Briefly on the explanation and summarised: The main association operates central registers, the structured data on Persons, economic operators and service providers included. The increased use of central registers had basically three concrete objectives: To optimize administrative procedures, to reduce early recognition of social fraud, especially through sham companies, and government paths for citizens, keyword one-stop-shop. In short, on social fraud and the Court of Auditors' assessments: According to estimates also of the Federal Ministry of Finance, about 300 sham companies were established in the audit year. At the time, the potential damage caused by these tax and contribution losses amounted to around €300 million. Systematic social fraud cases could be identified and prevented by the use of data from these social security registers. At the time of the examination, only one local health insurance fund was involved in an automation supported methodology to detect such cases. However, according to a report by the Ministry of Social Affairs, such evaluation can only be carried out efficiently if all data are collected as far as possible. The subject of security and data protection was mentioned in many cases – for example, there were no experts who perceived IT security incidents as a core task at the time – and a number of other points. In principle, it is to be concluded that: If we manage to make separate public authorities obsolete, this is the opportunity to create a tangible positive development, a concrete advantage for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17847	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17868	I can add to Mr Ottenschlager's statement on the Court of Auditors' report on the registers in the main association that it is true that, as a result of the Court of Auditors' suggestions in the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse, a centre of competence has been set up, which is specifically dedicated to risk and sensitivity analysis, especially within the meaning of the Social Fraud Act. Mr Moser said: Take the revisor's advice seriously! However, I would like to say that it is not always so easy to take all of this seriously, because if the Court of Auditors holds in its report, we need an early detection mechanism so that there can no longer be such powers, as my previous speaker has mentioned, then we must say quite specifically: At the beginning of a service relationship – the employer announces the employees – social security is also required to make these notifications, knowing that there are some companies – these are, in fact, minimum capital companies, those are also limited contractors and the already mentioned business firms – which often do not want to or are able to make the corresponding social security contributions. Another problem in this context, as the Court of Auditors has also said critically, is whether, when it comes to the specific benefits, someone is entitled to claim at all or not. And when you say, Dear main association, check this!, so he can use only the Central Reporting Register right now as regards the question of whether a person is allowed to stay in Austria or not. In practice, however, one must be, because the reporting register often does not Consisting with the actual conditions, it is always noted that there are problems. Here, in the House of Auditors, we should already consider countermeasures in the sense of the Court of Auditors' report, namely that in the future the service providers who cannot prove economic backgrounds must also offer something for the security of contribution payments in order to ensure that they are able to pay them, and that, on the other hand, the verification of whether a person is legally resident in Austria or not should be more closely linked to the provisions of the ASVG, i.e. the Social Security Act, in order to avoid future ambiguities or unnecessary costs.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17908	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Greiner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17929	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to another partial report, namely that on the structure of Austrian representations within the EU. At the time of reporting, Austria had a total of 36 representations – embassies, general consulates, cultural forums and two permanent representations to international organisations. Austria was one of nine EU countries with a representation in each EU country. What reform has the Court of Auditors shown? – He has expressed criticism of the structure of the network of representation, because this structure is not comprehensible. They didn't know: Why is there a representation in which country? What are the standards? What tasks does she have to perform? Another criticism was the very high personnel costs. On average, many staff from Austria were posted abroad, resulting in high international fees. For example, cheaper variants would have been to engage people on site or to install Rowing Ambassadors – those are those who are accredited in a country, but have their office in Vienna. Further savings potential has been seen in the merger of sites. There was also a beginning in Brussels. In Rome, for example, real estate projects have been reduced. However, it is now important to explain whether further mergers with other representations could still achieve synergies. According to this report, there is still air up there. Ladies and gentlemen! We have set effective targets in the Federal Finance Act 2013 which are suitable for a truly meaningful controlling. What are the impact targets for Austria's representations? – The Court’s recommendation is to set targets for action in the form of work programmes. I asked the Foreign Minister of the Court of Auditors about the status. The work programmes exist, and he meant that these programmes should be evaluated regularly from the end of this year. Now, of course, it would be interesting to know: If this evaluation is already carried out, is it already taking place? Are there results? If yes: What conclusions can be drawn from it in order to ensure that, in the area of Austrian representation, to public funds which are really economical, economic and useful? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e17980	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Kraker, is on the floor of an opinion on the matter. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18002	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since I held the office of the President of the Court of Auditors, I have made a change in the presentation of reports. As you have already pointed out, I am presenting individual reports to the Committee and the National Council so that we can deal with the individual reports in a timely manner here in the House. This report contains three more reports, which I have not yet taken part in. However, I took part in the deliberations on the subject of explosives and efficiency. That is why I want to address only this point at the moment, although I am of course pleased to see other reports being made here and the recommendations are being addressed very seriously. The report on explosive sizes and efficiency in the framework of the District Head Teams is about a cross-sectional review. The Court of Auditors shall examine by comparison and may make proposals on the basis of the comparison of the situation in the individual Länder. The debate shows that there may also be some reflections on how to contribute to administrative reform. The approach in the Styria and in Lower Austria is different with regard to the district headquarters, which we have already noticed in the debate. The Styria has focused on the issue of mergers, reduced the number of district captains by a combination, and in Lower Austria the concept of competence centres is represented. What did the Court of Auditors do? – The Court of Auditors, of course, stands as the County Headquarters Authority, which plays an important role in the area of sovereignty administration. As a starting point, however, we have had the situation that the number of inhabitants per head of the district in Austria and in concrete terms also in the two federal states is very different. The most populous district headquarters of the two countries, Baden in Lower Austria and Graz-Umgebung in Styria, cared for about five times as many inhabitants as the most disadvantaged district headquarters. In principle, however, I also want to hold the Court of Auditors: Efficiency is a part of effectiveness. The effectiveness of district head teams is not only related to the issue of numbers, for example the number of inhabitants, it is about efficiency and quality at the same time. In some areas that are important, which also need to be dealt with closely by citizens – for example, in the area of child and youth assistance – it is certainly important that there is a personal and direct contact that teams of the authority are also on-site. However, in other areas, for example, I call investment or commercial law, there is also the need for a district headquarters to have a certain size in order to achieve a corresponding professionalization, to deal with complex procedures, including citizens. In this case, it should be noted that, in the light of The aim is to ensure that the required number of lawyers, experts and representations is available. In other words, for the quality of an administration, several components are important: the use of citizens, the quality of performance and cost efficiency, and the necessary instructions for action for an optimal government structure. The purpose of the audit of the Court of Auditors was to identify key cost and efficiency elements of the district's main teams, and this ultimately leads to the question of the optimal size and organisation. However, I have to point out one point: We have 36 district captains in Austria, with fewer than 60 000 inhabitants in their explosives. Of course, these locations have grown historically many times. The size effects and thus the cost effects are the largest among the district's main teams with less than 60 000 inhabitants. The topic of digitization has already been addressed. There is a change, and structures also need to be adapted to changing conditions; at least an evaluation could be undertaken. The Court of Auditors has also shown in its report that mergers by district captains naturally have long-term savings potential in the personnel sector. These can be lifted, but only if not, despite the merger, parallel administrative structures remain. What needs to be stressed, however, is that the question of the organisation and therefore also the question of the merger of district headquarters is country matter. The Federation cannot intervene in these. In the event of a change, the Federal Government would have to agree. On the other hand, the Federal Government can, and this has already been said here in the debate, exploit the existing possibilities and ensure that, for example, in the field of indirect federal administration, uniform standards of enforcement are laid down so that, so to speak, one and the same legislative matter is not handled differently. In short, I believe that movement has come into the matter and that the Court of Auditors always likes to give an impetus, a start to thinking, for administrative reforms. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18079	Thank you very much, Madam President. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no wish by the rapporteur for a final word. We therefore come to the vote on the request by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-78 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:26:41]] 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2015/10 (III-190/1313) 7. Point Report by the Court of Auditors on Amendment 1537/A(E) by Mrs Claudia Angela Gamon, MSc(WU), colleagues and colleagues on resolving defects in the 2012 Party Act (1314 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18139	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18167	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think you all know that the Austrian parties in this Parliament can feel, in an international comparison, that they are very well equipped with tax money institutions of democracy. Yes, we confess to public party funding, we also confess to a proper public party financing, but it should be transparent and comprehensible, and taxpayers should know how their money is handled, how it is advertised, what is happening to it and what may disappear into any dubious cash. There has been a whole committee of inquiry on these corruption suspects in party financing, in which we unfortunately also had to find that there were numerous misconceptions, and by which there were also consequences, because of the fact that in this party financing problem – I now call it very polite – very many dubious payment flows have resulted in this conflict. It was even said at the time that Deutsche Telekom was supposed to be a kind of banker for certain parties. There are still court proceedings pending. The Court of Auditors has now adopted a party financing law in this Parliament as a consequence of this investigation committee, a media transparency law has already been adopted half a year before, which it is not entitled to carry out in accordance with the law. The Court of Auditors should check, but the law does not provide for the Court of Auditors to look into the cash registers. What does all of this mean? – All of this is more or less a persiflage, an abuse of the Court of Auditors. We have said and written 898 man-days – that is what we call a term technician, it is probably also women in the Court of Auditors – i.e. 898 days of employment of Court of Auditors employees in connection with the Party Finance Act, so that the Court of Auditors will be above it, although he could not look into it. It is therefore the Court of Auditors, although there is no Court of Auditors in it. In the Media Transparency Act, it is even 1 251 working days that are invested in something that cannot be precisely controlled. I would very much like to explain this in detail, it will You probably don't wonder because I hope you know that. The problem is always that with this procedure, with this legal regulation, which makes the Court of Auditors responsible for something that he cannot bear any responsibility at all, because he cannot look into, we again sow, prolong and consolidate such a thing as political indifference. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right! That's right!]] The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, Mr Moser, has expressed a very sharp criticism of what is being done in the light of what is wasted and wasted on the resources of the Court of Auditors. I can still present this to you in detail. Interestingly, the party financing resulted in the following: Country election campaign Carinthia 2013, there was the information, I quote: “The FPÖ was in its accounting report” – party funding! – “On top of that, she joined the political party “The Freedoms in Carinthia” (FPK) at the 2013 Kärntner Landtagswahl in Carinthia, which carried the FPK, which was not a national organisation of the FPÖ and therefore not a report of accountability.” – There was no audit. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: A madness! Incredible! That's really...!]] - Yeah, that's how you get out of there. The Court of Auditors has also noted, for example, that the federal structure of the ÖVP is a shackle of the ÖVP – does not say the Court of Auditors, I say – but it is relatively skilled in what the party funding is about, because ÖAAB is not subject to this law; it is an association and so on and can save all these audits. I mean, this is a state of intransparency and of self-rectification, which is simply unsustainable. That is why President Moser's appeal, including the appeal of the President, was to change something by law: either to give the Court of Auditors this competence of looking at it or to leave it out of play at all. It'll be enough for auditors. I say that the original approach of this legislative reform as a consequence of the Committee of Inquiry was to make the donation more transparent. This has worked quite well under this law. I am not concerned that I would like to submit any coffee house bill to the Court of Auditors. I mean, when using the parties, my goodness, there should be a certain margin of time, since I am not so small, but above all, it is about party financing also beyond public funding. That was the starting point, so to speak, the donations with the bills and so on. That's how it worked. However, we need to reorganise the law as regards this overemployment of the Court of Auditors, as you have said, with little efficiency or little effectiveness. Then there is the second construction site area, namely the Media Transparency Act. This law requires federal, state and local authorities to declare their advertising expenditure. According to the Court of Auditors in 2014, this amounted to € 192 million for advertisements, advertising companies and advertising cooperations. The tension is that one-third to half of these advertising expenditures are below the threshold of € 5 000. And if it is below the border, it is not verifiable by the Court of Auditors. That means that the bulk of the business is going to somehow get off and is not transparent. That's what I'm saying: If the Court of Auditors can't access it, especially if it can't look into it, then we'll release it from this task and use the 1 251 working days more meaningful for something else! Please, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us, as a legislative body, to end an impotence and really to deal with tax money more carefully, especially because the Court of Auditors' budget is still very short and all reserves have been exhausted. We should really use the Court of Auditors' resources for things that bring taxpayers something, not for absurd employment therapy, with which we suggest transparency on the outside, but still keep the cash register closed inside. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the appeal is addressed to you, to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18221	I call Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18243	Mr President. Madam President. In this heated debate on the Court of Auditors, I should first like to say something encouraging: I should like to congratulate you, Madam President, on today's birthday. I'm sorry we had to quote you here today. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] I understand the demands of the Court of Auditors when they say: We want the Court of Auditors to be in there too! It is indeed true that, in accordance with the legal regulation in the – Mr Moser has already said it – one has said, in accordance with the corruption investigation committee, that: Yes, the revenue is to be clearly declared, donations are to be declared, auditors are to review and present it, and the Court of Auditors still has the opportunity to send other auditors who are not from their own home, according to their own confidence. This was done according to the information I received, and the accounts were also considered in order by these testers. Nevertheless, the first passage is over. The first experience has been gained, and I also believe that we should now consider – and the competent minister in the committee has put this into perspective – in what form changes could take place. Mr Moser said that the disclosure of revenue and the provision of donations were quite successful. Mr Kogler has even said that it is much better for us than in Germany, but it may need further improvement. There is a need for clear information on how detailed electoral costs are to be reported. It takes sanctions when a party – you said – who receives public support does not submit an account report. It takes directives to ensure that the reports are comparable, and I also see the need for changes and repairs in other areas. There are discussions, and I hope that we will soon be able to present proposals. It is a question I still have problems with: Do we want the Court of Auditors to review individual election campaign activities? – The former President of the Court of Auditors, for example, wants to take a direct look at party books and activities. The question is therefore: Do we want a state body to examine a political party in terms of content? [[Abg. Steinhauser: This does not make any content!]] Whether leaflets, press releases, advertising posters: The effectiveness and effectiveness of advertising will be assessed on the election day by voters – as all of us have experienced – once, once and even less well. Finally, I would just like to say one sentence as a replica on colleagues Angerer to the previous debate – it doesn't leave me peace – he comes in now. I don't want anything small at the Burgtheater scandal. One thing I do not want to like, Mr Angerer, is what you have tried: There are proven criminal activities of employees who have caused these things under the control facilities, in part even caused a million losses – but if you compare this with a scandal such as the Hypo-Alpe-Adria scandal, which you alone have proven to be responsible for with over €11 billion, then I must say to you: [[Abg. Anger: Read the committee report!]] We could create a completely different budget if we did not have these expenditures. [[Abg. Anger: Read the committee report!]] To compare that with the hypo scandal, in which your former party observer was responsible for proven and exclusively politicians of your color, I find this to be inconvenient. You don't need that at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18321	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18342	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President-in-Office of the Council! I would like to thank Mr Moser for her statement. I think you have very beautifully described the absurdity of the party law and the supposed transparency. We can also briefly talk about why we need this transparency, because it has just been questioned by Mr Mayer: because we get a lot of tax money! We all get a lot of money to make politics. It is true that one can confess to public party financing. We NEOS don't see it like that, we don't think it must be as high as it is in Austria, but if you already pay a lot of money, if you use tax money at all, then for those who produce the money, the taxpayer and the taxpayer, it must also be clear that it is used accordingly for the purpose it was designed for. But at the moment you can't see that, you can't determine that, nobody can guarantee it – and that's exactly where the problem lies! We always suffer that we are accused of throwing the money out to the window, that we do not use it for what we should use it for. There is a great deal of distrust about politics – legitimately – because we do not reveal how it is used. Nor is it controlled accordingly by the Court of Auditors because it cannot be controlled. That would have to be a matter of course – no, just! - 'Cause it's about tax money. Of course, this must be monitored, just as you can and must control all the funding accordingly. The Court of Auditors has made 36 proposals. In February, when we discussed the activity report, former President Moser said that it was a huge administrative burden for the Court of Auditors, without a clear gain in transparency for taxpayers or taxpayers. And this allows the presumption that the Court of Auditors is there a fig leaf to get a light transparency confirmed by the stamp of the Court of Auditors. We have therefore also tabled an application for the reform of the law to remedy three key shortcomings. First of all, it is a question of ensuring a serious control competence by granting original access to and examination rights, second of all. That is why, in the accounts of all parties, the clubs and academies can also be found at all levels, so that the actually forbidden cross-financing can be found at all, and thirdly, that one extends the sanctions, for example, in the case that one does not give up the accountable report at all. This should actually be in the interests of all parties, because it would help us to make good policy if one did not have to fight in advance with distrust that the money is being used incorrectly. If we could clear this out, we would have a much better starting point for political action here. It is, Mr Mayer, really not a request from the Court of Auditors, but I believe it is a demand from anyone who can think clearly and has just a reasonable access to this issue. [[Abg. Mayer nodds.]] And if you say, Oh, that's a little far, that's already an extremely strict control!, then I think that's a very classic reaction of the great coalition to such proposals. You have to say: Why should not control be the most difficult of all areas? That would be a nice sign. Of course, one must also be able to check where the money has flown to prevent abuse. This is not at all a debate. That's what it's all about! This is in the sense of all of us, actually in the sense of all the parties, and that is why we are very sorry that the request has been rejected. On the other hand, we also find it very nice that we can debate this again today. And I would ask you that we come to proposals for reform very quickly, so that this will finally become a real law on control and transparency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18400	I call Mr Gahr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18421	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors has examined the party law, which is made up of three areas, and my predecessors have already explained at the outset: We have taken this decision in Parliament, this law has been brought into force, and now there are recommendations from the Court of Auditors which we should take seriously and which, I say, we should build into a new legal basis for the future. [[Abg. Moser: Doll!]] The Court of Auditors has clearly stated that there is a need for optimization. It is of course also a more comprehensive use of resources. A total of 36 recommendations were made in the Party Act. In particular, the Court of Auditors wishes to see more comprehensive rights of access and audit. The Court of Auditors calls for greater quality in accountability reports, a commitment to the promotion of parties, maximum limits on election advertising costs, which currently apply equally at all levels as regards national council, country-day, municipal and EU elections, where differences should be made according to election levels, and there should be a list of sponsors and advertisers. In the Media Transparency Act, the Court of Auditors issued five recommendations. I expressly mention two recommendations here: The amount of the amount of the amount of € 5 000 per quarter and sponsorship or media holder or medium would have to be reconsidered and the audit competence of the Court of Auditors in the field of legal representations would be clarified politically. The third area is the incompatibility and transparency law, which is already older. As a result, the Court of Auditors has made six recommendations, for example concerning the concept of ‘extraordinary capital increase’ in the assets of reporting persons. The Court of Auditors also calls for a legal obligation to provide full reporting to improve the quality of the asset messages, and if there are defects or errors, there should be a possibility of sanctions. In total, Mrs. Moser has presented this here: It is not about overemployed the Court of Auditors, President of the Court of Auditors, but about the fact that there is a high level of resource use when there is talk of €500 000 in personnel costs. But I must say quite clearly: There is also a great red tape on the part of those concerned when I think of small clubs or small local parties, so we must also have a strong influence on the fact that we do not overburden people with reports or reports. There is quite a need for improvement in order not to overburden the bureaucracy. Overall, we agree, I believe, with regard to the improvements and optimizations and the double conduct and the weaknesses of this law. It's just that we're going to implement the first experiences we've gained after this law decision. The Court of Auditors has given us a number of tasks to do this. We will endeavour to achieve a better, more transparent and less bureaucratic procedure in reasonable discussions in the party bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18458	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18479	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The renowned intergovernmental organisation International Institute for the Promotion of Democracy and Democratic Participation, IDA, says in its manual on the financing of policy: Financial resources play a key role in which actors participate in political events in modern democracies. That's exactly the point: Participation in the political process is linked to financial effort! Whoever has more resources can spread more frequent messages, can turn on more common ads, can make more frequent advertisements, can make more postage postings et cetera, is more perceived. This leads us to equal opportunities or, better said, to the disparity of the parties in Austria. Red and black still have too many opportunities to do business with companies belonging to the state or the federal states. It is then surprising if advertising agencies or consultants who are close to these two parties, the ÖVP and the SPÖ, do not receive orders on the private market, but are very likely to receive orders from state companies or from their environment. You know how this works or how it works, and it's no special surprise, I think, when you hear: Red companies do shops with the city of Vienna, black with the country of Lower Austria. I would also like to quote from the Court of Auditors' report where a very nice table can be found which shows what the Court of Auditors has been doing. I would like to give three examples, namely: SPÖ companies did business with the Hypo Alpe-Adria amounting to € 2.6 million. SPÖ companies did business with the city of Vienna in the amount of € 11.6 million. ÖVP companies did business with the Niederösterreichische Landeskliniken-Holding in the amount of around 1.7 million €. – However, this list, ladies and gentlemen, could continue for a very long time. But this is also symptomatic of how the whole thing is going about: that the country is still divided between red and black more or less and that the people are directing it there. This is also a reason for the fact that in many areas there is no change, that in many areas nothing goes further, that the necessary reforms are not addressed, because there is too much chattering and because one has something to do with the other and because this system has to be maintained. The fact that the system is not so accepted, that what is being done has also shown the latest election in the USA, and this will also show up in future elections with us in Austria, because you cannot continue as you have done for years and decades, with a lot of mismanagement, ladies and gentlemen. Now to Mr Gamon's request, which is under negotiation and on which she has already given an opinion. We have supported this request in the Committee and we support it here today in the vote. We have been talking about this for a very long time – even with the former President of the Court of Auditors, Moser, we have talked about it – how improvements or changes could occur in the party law and in the media transparency law. It is a pity that the Court of Auditors is overshadowed with special tasks, which it cannot really understand and cannot really examine. The stamp comes on it: examined by the Court of Auditors, but it cannot go further down. And the real core tasks of the Court of Auditors remain on the track. In addition, the financial resources are exhausted, and in the precarious financial situation in which the Court of Auditors is concerned, this is not exactly appropriate. So there's, I mean, a lot more to do, there's still a lot to be done. After a six-party discussion with the leaders of the political groups in the Court of Auditors, there should be rounds of talks – first with the two government parties – to see where there could be changes and improvements in these areas on which we can agree. And then we should see that, together with the President of the Court of Auditors, we are coming to a timely implementation here. I believe that this would be in the sense of all of us, and especially in the sense of Austrian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18530	Mr Hell is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18552	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking about the media transparency law. The Court of Auditors, with the so-called transparency package in the Year 2012 will receive new special tasks. One of the objectives in the creation of the Media Transparency Act was to create more transparency in media cooperation, advertising contracts and promotions. This was not achieved in accordance with the Court of Auditors' report. Starting in autumn 2013, the Court of Auditors examined the implementation of the Media Transparency Act in the city of Graz, in the country of Carinthia, in Tyrol, in the MuseumsQuartier set-up and operating company and in the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. The examinations carried out so far showed that almost all the audited legal entities had problems with the completeness and accuracy of the reports to the KommunAustria. Infringements against labelling have also been detected. The Court of Auditors also notes critically that, due to the relatively high load limit of € 5 000, almost half of the advertising contracts are not included in the lists published by the Community. As a need for information – which has already been mentioned today – the different legal status of the Kommunestria, the Federal Chancellery and the Court of Auditors is also addressed for the audit responsibility of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! In the 2015 Court of Auditors’ activity report, the Court of Auditors itself notes very critically that, since the entry into force of the 2012 Media Transparency Act, the Court of Auditors has spent about 1 250 working days on media transparency, it has restricted the performance of the Court of Auditors’ core tasks, namely the carrying out of conduct reviews and its advisory activities. Ladies and gentlemen! We should bear in mind this in the case of future audit assignments to the Court of Auditors, and we should carry out an evaluation of all aspects of the 2012 transparency package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18594	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18615	Mr President. Madam President. Well, we have now heard from the speakers of the government parties that there are obviously problems there that we need to change something there. Mrs Moser does this in every Court of Auditors report: that she tells us beautifully how often it comes. And it's always the same. I have now tried to reconstruct the time course of this whole story in some way. So: The party law in the current version has been in place since 2012. Anyone who has already dealt with it at the time – not only a parliamentarian, but also political scientist Sickinger, for example – has always said what the shortcomings are in. Now you can say: All right, they're not right, so we haven't had to reform it yet! There is the 2015 Court of Auditors report, and in February 2016 we had a committee meeting with a request from us. [[Abg. Moser keeps the page of a newspaper up to date.]] – There is a picture of Professor Dr. Sickinger, which Mrs. Collaborator Moser is currently showing. Now we have November 2016, and we still hear that the government parties already see that there is obviously something to do – perhaps! If we continue at this pace, we arrived in 2019 until we might have changed something. I think this is extremely problematic, because it cannot be that we all clearly see what a massive need for improvement we have, but we do not get it on time. Now again, in order to break down on the tongue, what former President of the Court of Auditors Moser said at the time: It is a ‘heavy administrative burden without any recognizable gain in transparency’. – The judgment cannot actually be more destructive. We know we have something to do. We have already presented the individual measures that are necessary in our proposal or in Claudia Gamon's request, what we would need, in particular the sanctions mechanisms. Everyone knows what we need to do anyway. We can now say from me that all this is not so right at all, but absurd is that you are always measuring with two different measurements, and that's what's bothering me so much. I have already explained it to you at the time when you decided that you would exclude your parties and your preparatory organizations from the register obligation and would like to make them equal to non-profit organisations such as the Caritas and the Voluntary Fire Department. Imagine: If an undertaking has an audit and the auditor comes, it must not look into the invoices – it is currently the case with the Court of Auditors! So there you measure with two measurements. If an entrepreneur does not provide comprehensively his annual accounts or a comprehensive balance sheet, he gets a problem, but we, the political parties, or you from the government parties do not want to explain what happens in the parliament club, what happens in the party academies. So there we measure with two measures again. Imagine what fines an entrepreneur receives if he does not make his annual financial statements – but we as political parties do not pay anything! There's no penalty if we don't give an account. This is measuring with two dimensions. That's absurd. No one can explain that. You've all explained that there are problems here, just: The problem is, nothing happens! And this constant measuring with two measurements is something that is really not understandable. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Shame!]] I am not saying what Mr Schellhorn calls in between now, but it is completely absurd that there is such a thing. It's completely absurd that you make yourself around here and act like it's all right to measure with two measures. No one understands this from the citizens of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18655	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Lettenbichler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18676	Mr President. Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to make a division in my speech: On the one hand, I would like to refer to the points which my previous speakers have already presented in detail and in detail. I would like to say: Yes, there is a need for action! and: No, there should not be over-examination of the Court of Auditors, especially since the output, as we have seen in the recommendations, may in some cases be a rather smaller one. We must also remember, however, that when we passed these laws, we made a quantum leap in Austria. We have now heard from various Members, including the opposition, that we have set some stricter standards than in Germany, when it comes to the question of where the flows of money for the individual organizations come from, for the parties, and that in some federal states, as in my own country of Tyrol, there have been even more stringent standards in the amount of donations that must be published immediately, which must then be published in the accountability reports. There's, I think, a lot of happening. I also agree with Mr Scherak that the impact on the implementation of the laws could be higher, and that should be measured. But where I am not your opinion and the opinion of the previous speaker from your club, it is that latent always means that the money we get is too much. We confess to a public party funding, to a base financing – that is good and is true as well – but there is always such an obligation that there is abuse that there are dark channels in which money disappears. I believe that none of the parties here in Parliament suffers from the fact that they have too much money and do not know what to do with the money. They have then also spoken of two different dimensions. There's one thing that bothers me: They always criticize the level of party funding, including for the academies, for the educational institutions – but you accept it. Or am I lying wrong now? [[Abg. Scherak: The not, the party academies promotion!]] – You don’t accept this one, that’s plausible, but the party funding is already. That's also two sizes you're doing. Then you have to take your own nose. However, if we want to go back one step – and I am grateful to Mr Mayer for his input – we should, in principle, be interested in and inform ourselves about how the funds are used before we make changes when it comes to the purpose of the audit of the Court of Auditors. I do not think it is useful and useful for a state institution to criticize a party. I do not know how then sensible means are defined: whether there is a comprehensive post-throw in a district, in a federal country or even in Austria, whether this must have been a four-colored print or a two-colored one, and whether it is at all necessary in times of social media to write letters, to make post-casts, to place posters, no matter what. This is a discussion that we should have before we basically talk about what a good issue and what a bad issue is. In this sense, I look forward to the forthcoming discussions, negotiations – which I will not always be there – and thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18726	Mr Angerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18748	Mr President. Madam President. Minister! High house! Mrs Moser, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a little more clear, because you have a little misrepresented this a little earlier: The Liberals in Carinthia are not yet part of the federal FPÖ, and the reunification party is planned for the beginning of next year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Maybe I'll invite you to that. I'd be glad if you came by. The topic of election costs and transparency: Of course, we are 100 percent in favour of transparency. In Carinthia, the 2013 election costs were set at €500 000 per country decision. We have also complied with this limitation of the costs of the election, which has been examined by the Finance Department of the country of Carinthia. However, what has been proved is that the clubs of SPÖ and ÖVP have not allowed the club to finance the party. Maybe you should check it out! The liberals have also revealed everything in Carinthia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18786	Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18807	Mr President. Happy Birthday, President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Angerer, I would just like to address the development in Carinthia with one sentence: One, of course, is the transparency that is urgently needed. This is not only a basis for control and prevention of abuse, but it is also essential that people can make an impression of our work, about the political processes in Austria. But it is certainly also a question of political culture. It has just been the case in Carinthia – we also discussed this in the committee of inquiry about the Hypo Alpe-Adria –: For years, a system was built – I don't want to keep it to you personally – in which it is normal to fill the party's funds, and it – I just want to remember – is no net, said in Carinthian, Part of the Game is that one offers citizenship and goes a little pocket money to the party, and there have also been convictions in Carinthia. [[Abg. Listen: Always the same!]] - Well, it's cruel enough! [[Abg. All right, let's go!]] - I don't know why you're so upset, but you can hold it very centrally. [[Abg. Listen: You always give the same speech!]] – Today we find out about the time when you were in the government the last time you were in the government, there are more and more investigations on this. That is also a question of political culture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. It's funny.]] Mr Mayer said it quite frankly, we can really discuss all the processes. There are areas in which we are well placed in Austria, and there are areas in which the processes, as they are at the moment, are pointless. You just have to get better. But it is also necessary, I believe, that we discuss the question of the system. Mr Schenk referred to the USA as an example. I do not believe that it is the ideal example that there are then corporations – we are talking in total about more than $6 billion in the US, which are alone in the election campaign – who have their power interests and can decide and deeply influence politics. These are developments that we do not want in Austria. In addition, however, we should discuss the system. Each party, I believe, has the responsibility to say within its own party: Stop, it's not like that! That's why, Mr. Lausch, because you already cried out so loud: Where, then, was the loudness of speech when there was this vortex in Carinthia and when you were in the Federal Government? Courage to have other parties here is funny and now exciting. [[Abg. Listen: You tell us the same thing every time, don't you notice?]] – You can now cry, but this courage must be put in your own party session and Mr. Kickl, Mr. Strache, and as they all say openly: Let's be clean, we're working neatly! You may like to scream out, but I think you should also have the courage in your own party not only here when it comes to adapting the other parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18896	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Kraker, has been informed of his opinion on the matter. Please, Madam President. [[Between calls at the FPÖ in the direction of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] - I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18923	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Now, although the Court of Auditors' special tasks under party law, media transparency law and inconsistency and transparency law have been discussed very often in this House, allow me to explain once again the Court of Auditors' position. The next week, budget consultations will take place in the House, and of course I must point out that, as a result of these special tasks, we are binding human resources with an annual volume of at least €500 000. These funds are then missing from the Court of Auditors in carrying out its core tasks, and these are audits and consultations. The Court of Auditors has submitted the report on these special tasks and has found that it has limited audit rights. This does not allow it to carry out the usual form of control and testing. As you all know, by publishing the reports on the homepage “Rechnungshof” on it, but it is not “Rechnungshof” inside. Original access and testing rights are missing. This regulation is a consequence of a transparency package. The Court of Auditors stands for transparency and advocates strengthening transparency, but transparency within the meaning of the standards of the Court of Auditors is guaranteed only if the Court of Auditors has first understood and examined and can draw up findings based on them. The current legislation does not allow or allow the Court of Auditors to create a comprehensive transparency regarding party financing in Austria in this sense. That is why I am now holding back – this is a position that you already know from the Court of Auditors and which I maintain –: If no real audit powers are granted or granted to the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors shall withdraw from this area of responsibility. It would be my appeal to the legislator to either provide for a full audit competence with transparency, so that this also deserves the “control” predicate, or for the discharge of the Court of Auditors from these special tasks. It is also about the role of the Court of Auditors in media transparency. The Court of Auditors has made proposals in this report on how to improve reporting obligations, how to simplify, because there is also a high administrative burden, both for the legal entities subject to control and for the Court of Auditors. This is not efficient, and it should be avoided. It is also appropriate to improve the quality of the asset messages through a legal obligation to fully and correctly report the assets under the Incompatibilities and Transparency Act. Further information can be found in this report on the special tasks of the Court of Auditors. I would ask you to go into the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e18971	No one is reporting on this. In the debate, I think no one will step in, Madam President, because it is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-190 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of its report 1314 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:11:31]] 8. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1294, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Rules of Procedure, the Law on Court Fees, the Law on Jurisdiction and the Act on Enforcement Fees (EO-Nov. 2016) (1306 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1396/A(E) by Mr Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues on signing the minimum of existence in executions for maintenance claims (1307 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19049	We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19076	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The request I am now discussing is that it is legally possible to apply 25 percent under the so-called minimum of existence in the case of maintenance obligations. This has been provided for by law for years and is also common practice, so it is done quite so. I have long considered this to be an unwarranted hardness. I am not so naïve to believe that all the maintenance obligations are really hard and deserve as much as possible to be able to pay as much support as possible. I am fully aware of the fact that there are many black sheep who are conscious if they can somehow regulate it, then earn less and thus harm the maintenanceist. Of course, this is also justified by nothing and not to see positive. On the other hand, I consider it to be a very negative effect if you can go under the minimum of existence by 25 percent and with it someone who is just a maintenance officer and works or is perhaps also independent, of course takes every motivation to make more money. You have to imagine this: It is actually possible to execute up to 662 € down; that means that in extreme cases only 662 € are available to a maintenance officer. After all, it is not so few who are in such a low salary class and have maintenance obligations that this could happen. This is, as has been said, quite common practice. For example, I have also found a decision that has been behind for a long time, but is based on this legal basis, where it was called by the Supreme Court – a rule of law –: “The obliged person has to remain an amount necessary for the preservation of his body forces and his mental personality.” – This is all he has to remain: his body forces and his mental personality. That's very impressive! We should seriously consider, therefore, the request I made, but which was rejected in the committee, that we make a change there. I understand that, of course, those entitled to maintenance need this maintenance. There is a need to find another solution, in case of doubt, that the State is at all events entering, but not imposing such a burden on the maintenance officer. It is also not the case that this is offset by social benefits, because minimum entitlement and all these things are linked to what income you have, and not to what comes to an end after executions. That's not the basis, so I can't go anywhere and say I need a grant or whatever. That's just not right. That's where you're going from income. The income is just given, and then the executions come. If this can go down to this low level, just 25 percent below the minimum of existence, then this is very problematic. The minimum of existence also depends on income – this argument will now come, that is certainly for discussion – but if, for example, someone has a net income of €1900, quite a high income, then he can now be executed down to €880. This is very dramatic when one has obligations, which, of course, usually go hand in hand with income. At least once, I try to come to this awareness of the problem, that it is very often very far and very deep in maintenance obligations, and then, as I said, probably also leads to the fact that there is no motivation at all to earn something. This, of course, does not do anything for the dependants and is ultimately hanging back on the state. We should go ahead and make a corresponding change in the Rules of Procedure as legislators.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19133	Mrs Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19155	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to talk about two points concerning the amendment of the new executives, which, in fact, also brings in several points very technical, normal adjustments, on the two points that implement two regulations of the European Union in the Rules of Procedure. The first point concerns the provisional pledge of foreign accounts. For the explanation: In our court proceedings, we have a division – first the process of recognition and then the enforcement procedure. In the recognition procedure, it is concluded that a particular claim, a certain claim is right, and if this decision comes into force in legal form, one can conduct execution. I have just considered that in my life I have probably already submitted well over 1,000 applications for execution, but a provisional pledge of a claim for money has not yet been included. That's really the exception. The exception is, of course, if already, during the detection process, execution is to be ensured. This is quite common practice in competition proceedings for interim decisions to be adopted in order to avoid anti-competitive acts. The fact that one conducts execution during the recognition process on money demands is very rare, but is theoretically already planned for us. I've never experienced it, as I said. The comments on this novel also state that this can only be made under very strict material and legal conditions. Now we are at the European level. I do not know, of course, whether the foreign courts make this as strict as our courts. The fact that the surprise element is particularly highlighted is an intensification. This means that during the authorisation procedure, the other side is not heard and does not know and is previously informed of access to an account. That means it can happen to you that you have different payments, and suddenly you get a pledge and can't have your account. It will probably be higher amounts of money, but it could theoretically be like this: Let's assume it's a demand of €3,000, something like that – can also be a criminal mandate, yes! – but you have your rental payments, you have your abduction payments, and suddenly on the 29th of the month such a thing comes. [[Abg. Wittmann: Can also be a criminal mandate!]] – I also hope that the other dishes are as strict as we are. On the other hand, the creditor who claims it is also liable for the damage he causes. So this is the first point where you probably have to be as careful as the Austrian courts have been so far. The second point is the recognition of foreign titles. When I started as a lawyer and as a lawyer, it was so that every execution application had to be presented with the original of the title. Today this is no longer the case, you also have to do with time – electronics! - go. In the case of a space title, you still have to present the original, but in case of a money demand it no longer has to be. If you want our titles to be recognized abroad as an Austrian, you have to do so, of course, vice versa. I remember, for example, that payment orders do not bear a signature or a stamp, which is an EDP expression that is considered to be the original of a title. We must, of course, recognise foreign titles, which are therefore coming. Now comes the paradigm change: So far, an Austrian court had to recognize a foreign title, and then one could lead execution. Now it's different, it's being executed on the basis of a foreign title, and when the obliged party objects and says: It's not a title, it can't be recognized, there's no legal force, then the court says: Hold it, or check it. This is in need of habit, ladies and gentlemen, and you will really have to look at how it will develop in practice whether this practice will be satisfactory or not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19191	Next, Mr Hagen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19213	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to respond briefly to Mr Stefan's request concerning the execution under the minimum of existence, a concern that I have already expressed several times. This request must be supported by a hundred percent. Mr. Stefan, you told him that you said everything necessary, I don't want to chew it back now. I would like to take a closer look at the maintenance stories here, and a few months ago I gave a speech about a man from Vorarlberg who has two children and has been divorced. The court has decided – I presented it to you at the time – that this man in the final effect does € 170 minus per month, if he pays everything as he has been prescribed, because he has to keep his apartment, which also costs money, but which he must have in this size so that the children can visit at all during the weekend. But he has never been able to buy the children anything to eat or go on ice with them. These are conditions of maintenance, which I believe are more than necessary for reform. There are different stories about this. Mr Federal Minister, I will shortly present a number of requests to you in the Committee on Justice, which I would like to address in general on this subject. I would like to address another case here, which gives me some sort of thought. There is one case where a man and a woman who have married very young have been divorced. The children were both over 20, i.e. both working, the woman worked half-days, and the man had to make a relatively high maintenance payment. This woman then prefers not to work fully, as she has been given by the court, but only half-days, she hardly pays any pension contributions, and in the final effect it is so that this man – if he still deserves so well – must pay the woman the corresponding maintenance and never go to full work. One has to look at how it is, for example, in Sweden or in other Scandinavian countries; I would like to draw your attention to it. This woman doesn't pay any pension contributions. But now the times have changed since the maintenance right has been decided here. It used to be the case that the woman stayed at home, raised children, and in many cases did not do a job next door – in rare cases, I think that was perfectly justified – but today it is so that very many women are employed, self-employed and have this possibility. In Scandinavia, for example, it is like this: If the woman is at home, the man pays for her the pension contribution. That means she's insured with it, and when she retires, she also has a corresponding pension. Perhaps you should think about it with us, that you also go in this direction. In the case I have described to you, it is true that if the man goes into retirement and the woman has barely collected pension contributions and has only a pension of 400 or 600 € – or whatever, under the minimum guarantee – he must cover the whole with this 60:40 rule. That is, if the man does not have such a high pension, because he may have been independent, needed amounts and paid less contributions, then this falls on his mind in the case of a pension. In the final effect, we thus produce two poverty cases from a successful professional who has perhaps created jobs – and that is thanks to the Austrian state. Ladies and gentlemen, this system is urgently amended. However, I would also like to address cases like I mentioned earlier in which children are at play. Of course, the woman's survival must be secured. There I also know a case, I will present it to you later, also from Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Pendl: What's going on in Vorarlberg?]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: In Vorarlberg it goes on!]] – This is not only so in Vorarlberg, but everywhere else. This man, for example, who's been reported to me, has two children. The children then came to the mother, then the husband had to pay maintenance at some height. But the woman deserved well, but that was meat. Then she no longer had the children, but they came to the father, and then the woman had to pay for the maintenance; only: The maintenance of the woman was not even half of what the man had to pay. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: What? I don't know myself anymore!]] [[Abg. Walser: Too complicated!]] It's not understandable to me. There are mistakes and problems in this area, and this is a subject I think we should address once. If we do not want to produce cases of poverty in family law or in maintenance law, I think there is still a lot of work to be done. Minister, I asked you to deal with this. I'm welcome to give it to you. I will help you with loud examples of these, I will work them out and will stand here more often in the future and present a case again and again. [[Abg. Pendl: I'm right, tell him next time!]] It is a question of finally doing something in this area, because unfortunately there is hardly anyone here in this Parliament who has the courage to deal with this issue. We from the Stronach team do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19302	Next, Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19324	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== October this year it has a press conference with representatives of the Austrian Women's Ring and the Austrian Platform for single-parents given. In addition, Maria Stern from the Forum Child Support was present, Sabine Kogler, single parent, our youth spokesperson and the family spokesperson of the Greens. The subject was also the issue of maintenance security. What was the basis of this press conference? . At this press conference, it was also a matter of drawing attention to the fact that children and adolescents of single parents in Austria are affected more than twice as often by poverty as other children. 15.5% of families are single-parent families. In 2015, there were 138,500 mothers and 45,000 fathers of children and adolescents under 18 years of age. Single-parents live 42 percent in poverty and form the active population most affected by poverty. One of the main reasons for this is insufficient or missing maintenance payments. Alone educators are the population group with the highest stress and burnout risk, according to the fact and data analysis of women who held this press conference. I can also follow you with your request in many areas, Mr Stefan. It is a due reform when we are talking about maintenance law here. It is a due reform, and we also noted in the Coalition Agreement that a child cost analysis should be carried out because it is really no longer State of the Art that we are still working on a child cost analysis that dates back to 1964. To adjust only to the consumer price index, that is too little. We need new figures here, we need new facts here. It has also been complained over and over again when it came to requests to you and to the ministry that we do not have the relevant facts, data, because the numerical material is missing. In this context, I mention only two paragraphs: § 16 and § 19 UVG. We cannot find out how many caregivers it takes, for example, to apply for a reduction in the maintenance and so on. We need regulations that the children and their parents, the educators, do not fall below the poverty line. On the other hand, we need to consider a legal rule that the children do not fall below the poverty line, but on the other hand, they also have the possibility and the motivation to comply with their obligations, as you have thought. Here we need this double approach. In my opinion, the motion as you have put it is too short. We need a bigger reform. We must not only consider the question of the system of execution with the reduction of the minimum of existence – that is, the minus 25 percent – but we must consider and think more fully. It was already in the last legislative period that it was said that there should be a parliamentary survey on this subject. I am glad that it is now clearly being discussed seriously and that we are now really creating a joint parliamentary survey so that the relevant experts can speak up so that we can find a satisfactory solution for the children and for the families in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19372	The next item is the speech by Mr Brückl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19395	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to refer briefly to Agenda item 8, the Novelle of the Rules of Procedure 2016. On the one hand, the aim is to improve the efficiency of legal protection and to simplify the procedure in terms of salary execution, and on the other hand, in the field of driving execution, to increase the efficiency of the performance and to reduce the time of execution. The novelle includes a number of measures which, I call them so, are not of a great spread. We already had novels in this House, Mr Federal Minister, which were much broader, which had a much larger scale, yet, I also say, we must not underestimate the effects of this amendment. What are we actually talking about? – In Austria, with regard to the number of executions, some 810 000 driving executions are requested annually, and some 660 000 salary or claim executions are applied for annually in Austrian courts. Even more drasticly, these are about 3,000 applications for execution on a daily basis in terms of salaries and claims and some 3,700 applications for a driving licence. That is why we must not underestimate this. It should also be remembered that the collection system, that the execution system can also be a business. With regard to these novels, I should like to point out a few points: One of the changes we consider to be positive is the removal of the so-called fourteen-day period in the simplified authorisation procedure. So far, it has been so that the application for the approval of an execution was, as it were, calendered for fourteen days and was not awarded the execution order until then. This deadline now fails with the result that on the one hand we will relieve the staff in the firms because they no longer need to calendar these files, because they no longer need to monitor this period. On the other hand, I expressly say that there can be no more different treatment of executions in the simplified authorisation procedure and executions in the ordinary authorisation procedure. The rank principle is kept there, so to speak. Mr Bundesminister, on the amendments to § 292: This is about the aggregation of several limited eligible claims. If a liability officer has or has several incomes – which is not so rare at all – that can start with the cleaning power, but also applies to accident pensioners and so on – it was earlier so that the togethering of these incomes by the third-party debtors was done by the employer. This task now takes over the court, and so to speak, one also relieves a little of the economy, which is not so bad. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to talk about the justice of the Internet platform in the Committee. We have already found in the Committee that this Internet platform, this auction platform of a qualified public is quite unknown. If one wants to be more successful with this in the future, it needs advertising, but it also needs financial resources. I know that you don't have them, so I very much doubt that this just auction platform will be successful in the long run. In addition, I now know from some discussions also with employees that there are the responsible employees, mostly executioners, also with Have to get a boat. There are many questions, many uncertainty factors in this area. This begins at the time of the official act, when items are taken down, which is very often not non-fractional. There are concerns about the transport: What happens if I damage this TV? Where do I keep these rides? Is it enough if I lock her up in the office? What happens if the object cannot be auctioned? How do I reach the obliged one again? And so on. So there are still many questions here that will need clear and legal answers. It just needs a normative conviction of the employees here. In conclusion, however, I can say that this novelle is in itself consistent that it will satisfy the requirements set, even if the changes are in a very manageable framework. Some might have been made a little different, but in their entirety they have been successful, and we will therefore also give this novelle our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19447	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19468	Ladies and gentlemen! This novel to the order of execution has many small points that we support. The centre is for us a point which is a very useful measure. My previous speaker has already mentioned this: Whenever a debtor has several employers, there has been a massive problem in calculating the minimum of existence. That wasn't quite easy. One had to see which part of the wages could be collected and which as a minimum of existence had to be preserved. The problem was, of course, that such an employee who had several employers had problems with his new employer, of course, because this was a huge effort for the employer who was unattractive. Such persons may have had more difficulty finding employment in the labour market, and this, of course, has made it difficult for them to continue. I mean, it's a total misunderstanding that companies are almost being abused as collection offices for the debtors. This is always a difficulty for workers in looking for jobs, if it turns out that an execution is going on, because the entrepreneur – because this is of course an extra effort – likes to make a bow around such employees and makes their progress and thus also the debt of debt difficult. Now this problem is solved at least if there are several employers, then in future the court is responsible. This is a small step, but a sensible step. The second request we are discussing today is the FPÖ's request to stop going under the minimum of existence in the event of maintenance debts. We will not agree to the request, but we think it is right and I would like to explain where our difference lies. In principle, the minimum of existence is the minimum of existence. No one is supposed to be found under this minimum of existence, since this one defines a limit with which to get along. I only think that the solution proposed by the FPÖ is wrong, since the FPÖ says the state should jump in. I'm saying something else. If someone has shipping debts and maintenance debts, then the maintenance debts must be privileged before the shipping debts, then maintenance debts are carried out, and the warehouse must wait. This is a better solution than that the warehouse will access the debtor and the State will then contribute to the maintenance debt. That's a problem. The other point – and I'm sure I'm with my colleague Worm von der SPÖ – is: We have to look at the maintenance right as a whole, because the biggest problem in maintenance law is that some fathers are being put under the minimum of existence, that the maintenance is too low. That means that what the mother gets when the earnings are low is not enough to finance a child enough. In other words, we have to get into the topic of basic child care so that we can solve the problem if fathers earn too little that mothers – as a rule it will be; it can, of course, be the other way round – can secure the existence of the child. Mr Minister, there is one more point that we have raised in the Committee on Justice, and that is the subject of private bankruptcy: We have been waiting for a private bankruptcy reform for many years. I remember the economic crisis: For everyone, one has chained packages, except for private debtors. This one's been abandoned. I remember how the loans got beat at the time, Frankenkrebse et cetera. This has ruined many small borrowers, who are still suffering from these loans today, and there has been no reform at all for these people in the economic crisis. When you start with the topic of private bankruptcy reform, everyone always says: Yes, goodness, private bankruptcy! If someone doesn't control his debts, he's a bissel himself. The truth is: If you look at who goes into private bankruptcy today, it is not primarily people who cannot pay their mobile phone bills or their shipping debts. In the first place, persons affected by unemployment are persons. People get unemployed and can't pay for their loans. The second group – and I think that is very important – is failed self-employed. When we talk about economic issues, let us say that there must be a culture of failure in order for innovative people to risk something. These are the Sunday speeches. If someone fails, he has no chance to get rid of his debts quickly in private bankruptcy and start through again. The third group, which is heavily affected by overindebtedness, are those who divorce. Divorce is expensive. Most of the time, it is also about loans, which are going to be striking, which one may create too two times more, but after the separation it will be difficult. When we say that the main people in private bankruptcy are failed self-employed, people who divorce, and people who become unemployed, and we don't change anything, I think this is negligent. On the European average, it takes about five years for a person – of course, he has to try to pay his debts – to pay off in the private bankruptcy. In Austria this can take up to ten years, which is a quarter of the working life. What's the result? – Not only that this person lives more or less on the limit for ten years, but for these persons the motivation to become active on the labour market also decreases, since everything is so to speak cleared down. This also reduces the possibility for potential creditors to come to money. If the person says I'm not going to work because I have nothing of it anyway and my debts are not released, neither does the creditor come to his money. The reform of the private bankruptcy is a command of the hour from a wide range of points of view. I am therefore very sorry, Minister of Justice, although we have been discussing this for a very long time, that you have told us in the Committee on Justice that no reform is planned here. I think this is a big failure. Perhaps in a further round you can get through to take a next step in reform. In fact, we had almost all parties on board across parties to deal with this issue in Parliament. Unfortunately, there is no unity, therefore there is no survey, but I thought it really important to get into this discussion. We must give people who fail a chance to get back into work and get rid of their debts. Of course, one must try to repay debt, that is clear, but we must also make it possible to restart such people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19534	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19556	Mr President. High house! Wages executions often go so far that income is reduced to a minimum – we have heard enough. In the case of maintenance pledges, the legislator even foresees that the minimum of existence can be reduced by 25 percent. Although it is a matter of character for me to make a living for his young people, it is not to be disregarded that the feasibility and lability are to be ignored. The commitment to maintenance payments requires separate households and therefore double costs for housing. Costs of living, especially housing, represent a non-insignificant and ever-increasing cost factor. In a time of strained economic conditions, the causes of a salary execution, such as undebted job loss due to insolvency or labour loss, must be questioned and taken into account. In the case of indebtedness, different standards must be laid down in relation to self-indebted salary execution. It appears necessary to adapt existing legislation with regard to the debt issue and, in the event of an indebted emergency, to at least leave the minimum of existence untouched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19589	The next item is Mr Groiß. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19610	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Rules of Procedure are not necessarily a matter which is about to be taken off the armchairs at this time, because it is about the business relationship between debtors and creditors, and this is not an issue that we like to put before us, but it is an important issue. Many people – we have heard it today – are over-indebted and cannot meet their current payments, and an execution is being conducted. Many of them are employees. What assets do they have? – This is the salary, and it comes to the salary execution. I want to go to my Speaking specifically on the point where an amendment to the Rules of Procedure is being made. A salary execution means an enormous administrative burden for the entrepreneur: He has to keep lists, he has to see that he is paid in the right order, and it's very bad if there are several employers, because at present the debtors have to make up for where he is being picked up and who has to pay. It is very bad that the entrepreneur is liable when a mistake occurs, and the salary he paid for the employee, which he might not have been allowed to do, has to pay again to the debtor. Costs rise for the entrepreneur, wage accounting becomes expensive. The important thing about this Rules of Procedure is that we are creating a simplification here, because without this simplification, it is important for these people to say: I do not want to bear these costs, that is too much for me! These people then do not get the opportunity to find new jobs, or lose their jobs. They have the problem of having even more debt and getting even deeper into the poverty trap, and that is why we need to counter it. The change in the system of execution creates legal certainty for the entrepreneur, as the merger happens through the court in the future. The risk of liability due to errors is reduced, and this will increase the possibility of giving someone a chance. The costs for this third-party debt statement are also adjusted, which was also overdue for a long time. You can say: If I already give the employee the chance, at least my extra effort must pay off in some form! Mr Minister, with this novel, which has many positive aspects, we have achieved on this point that lower costs are incurred by companies, it needs less bureaucracy and it is easier to do the job. It is a contribution to the fight against poverty, and it is a contribution to the simplification of wage settlement. Mr Minister, we have often wished to do so in other places, but we have not yet reached as far as the judicial centre. This novel is a contribution to the red tape we wanted. I would like to thank you for your care that this issue could be solved in this way, on behalf of the economy, but also on behalf of all the servants who will now find a job more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19659	Mr Wittmann spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19680	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I want to start with the two regulations that are designed to adapt to the European directives. I think it is reasonable that this should be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure and that it should also be applied in a subsidiary manner to the rules of the interim order. I believe that the implementation of this directive is absolutely correct. I only think that the directive itself is a little dangerous because, according to the country reports, we have different legal systems and different quality of these legal systems. If, when adopting a European decision on a temporary bond of accounts, only the credibility of the debt is necessary, then I can imagine that in some countries which do not have such an outcome. We have a legal system which is valid or functioning, as we do, which is relatively simple to believe, so that a decision can be taken on a provisional fee. And then it is executed without once being heard by the debtor, and all of his accounts are suddenly blocked. So if in Romania – to name as an example a country that has been certified by the European Union that its legal system does not work that way – it is made credible that someone has debt, then, without listening to the debtor for a single time, it will hear the opposite side, the account will be seized, even if it may be mitigated by a security performance, which is, however, at the discretion of the court issuing it, and perhaps can only refer to the costs of the proceedings. In such a case, this can become a dangerous story. This has nothing to do with our implementation, I think it is reasonable and certainly right. The second story to be mentioned: The rule that the court takes over the distribution of salaries for several non-performing incomes is also a perfectly correct decision. The third story: I have also looked at this platform, which does not make a good impression at the moment. I think it would be necessary to stop the execution departments from also bringing in material so that it can also be filled with meat. I think there are enough piled items that could come to offer, then the website would also become more interesting. You found only five items in it and a reference to the German website. That is, I believe, not necessary, but should be filled with own driving.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19722	Next, Mr. Dr. Doorer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19744	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A proverb says: Clear bill, good friends. And the clear bill is simply that you pay back your debts. In practice, however, it has already occurred that debt will not be repaid – under quotation marks – because the money has been found on accounts abroad, especially on accounts in other European countries. The aim is to remedy the issue of this novelle of the system of execution. This means that Europe's hiding of money will not be as easy as possible. This novel, which SPÖ and ÖVP have presented, is of course intended to catch the black sheep that have done so far. It cannot be in the interest of the taxpayer that this is still the case. It is about improving the legal protection of those who have donated their money, so it is also specifically about the possibility of adopting a European decision in order to carry out a provisional bond of accounts and to obtain account information. These are the conditions. However, it is also planned to speed up the time to the first execution. In 2014, an average of 71 days passed after approval of the execution, and 68 days in 2016. I think that is too long. On the ideas expressed here by Mr Wurm on the subject of maintenance: I also believe there is a need for action. A request tabled by Mr Stefan also goes in this direction. I believe that they are actually ground- A few things should be considered. My request to the Minister for Justice is to remember this with us in the committee, because the maintenance obligation of divorced fathers can very well be a poverty trap, and therefore there is a need for action. This law also deals with the adjustment of the auctions by the judicial system. My tip is: Look Once you've reached the rightful Internet platform: justiz-auktion.gv.at. There are always interesting and also cheap offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19786	Mr Brandstetter, Federal Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19807	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I can take a short look, but I would like to say that a lot of things have been said here, which really impressed me and also gives me some thought. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The two areas addressed in the context of the right of execution concern different things: Mrs Wurm's concern is about reforming the right of maintenance, and Mr Stefan's concern is that we should not be able to lead executions that can go below the minimum of existence in this area addressed by you. These are two different things that really only have to do with each other indirectly. I just want to say one word: I really understand the concern and believe that we must also see where the limits of the competence of justice lie. Justice is there to ensure maintenance rights also through execution. That's their job, which works in the end in the way of execution. If, for reasons I quite understand, one wanted to enter borders, then one must already say that we are in an area that is ultimately a task of the social sector and of the corresponding social partners in order to achieve compensation. But one thing is clear: A reform in this area of the right of execution, and I have seen that in the Committee, and so said, cannot be caused by those entitled to maintenance. There's something else to think of. Now I am right where Mrs Wurm was: Yes, an overall reform of the maintenance right would certainly make sense, taking into account all that you have said. In the analysis of children's costs, it must be borne in mind that the Ministry of Family Affairs is involved, but in principle it would be nice if that were to last once. Now I come to what Mr Steinhauser said: That's all you said. I would also like to add that, especially in the area of insolvency and private insolvency, there is, of course, also the risk that, if they do not see a legal opportunity to get back on their feet, those concerned are obviously at risk of slipping into illegal activities, starting with black work and others. You're right. One thing you always have to take into account: The private insolvency reform is not in the government programme. We now have a few things in progress, including some major reforms in the field of private law, such as the Stakeholder's reform. In concrete terms, we are also working on a draft of collective complaints, and the Act of Action is in preparation. I just wanted to point out: We have to deal with a number of larger chunks, including possibly a reform of the laity court. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. What is not in the government programme is difficult to accommodate. But I understand the concern, and your arguments were entirely correct. To what is now the matter of decision-making, I would just like to say: It has already been mentioned, everything has been said, whatever there are advantages here, which could be achieved by means of this Rules of Procedure-Novelle. This is, I believe, a very sensible system, which is based on Brussels; once again, a very useful initiative, which comes from there. It is very useful to be able to make a provisional access once in the Member States, including Austria, as creditors, within the European Union. I think there is no reason to vote against. I know that in the field of the corrective Internet auction platform we always need improvement, and of course we have to do the same, because we have to be always behind it, which is a very fast-moving matter. We do, too. We're behind it. We have partly had to rely on external expertise, because we simply don't have enough capacity for it, but that makes sense, since we are planning another platform in the context of our internet presence. If we are lucky, we will do this this day, namely the platform “www.jailshop.at”. Hopefully, on this platform there will soon be products to buy from the execution of the penalty; that makes sense and I wanted to mention that. Also because it has been said that we are doing too little advertising and too little marketing. Yeah, I'll say it again. We do not have an advertising budget, so I would like to take this opportunity and point out that “www.jailshop.at” will be there soon. And of course we will improve our website consistently and systematically. I would be pleased if you, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a very long and hard working day, would take the opportunity to give your consent to a very sensible arrangement, which we owe to our excellent department. A long parliamentary day best ends with a fine unanimous decision. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19869	Thank you, Minister of State. No one is reporting on this. Would the rapporteurs like a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft Executive Regulations Novelle 2016, title and receipt in 1294 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I also ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1307 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[21:03:12]] 10. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1295, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Law on the Law on the Law on Jurisprudence (1308, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19942	Finally, we come to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e19969	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! “To be able to listen is half the success.” – Just by chance today I have a quote from an American president, namely 30. President Calvin Coolidge, who has said some very distinctive sayings in his life that politicians can listen to, I think, even today. “To listen is half the success.” – This is what we give to many who have been elected today. Mr. Federal Minister, you can listen! You've proved it a lot. You can excellently involve different groups in the creation of legislative templates and figures, even though at the beginning of discussions they have very different views and interests. This law, this government template, in turn, is proof of how well you can listen, for you have not only achieved half, but clearly a whole success. We will vote unanimously in favour of this law – as we have already done in the Committee after a very factual and interesting discussion – which, in particular, brings the professional image of the lawyer into a new and up-to-date light. We now need you, dear lawyers in Austria, to implement this bill, which gives you much more opportunities in implementing your daily work, with thought and care, and to apply it in good and reasonable for the benefit of our citizens. I even had the opportunity in September to participate in the first Austrian law enforcement day in the Palace of Justice. I met some law enforcement officers there, very experienced older and very young. One thing was common: They are extremely committed, and they want to bring their professional status to the fore. They also want to make him known to the public, where their activities are, in fact, far too little appreciated, but are also far too little known. We are celebrating this 30 years of electronic basebook and company book. An area for which the law enforcement officers are responsible, and which they excellently cover in the sense of Austria's location. They secure for us appropriate evidence of ownership in the basic book, they are responsible for the foundational security of companies. In my opinion, this is an asset that is absolutely essential for the economic location of Austria. We currently have around 630 lawyers in Austria. They make around three-quarters of all decisions at the District Courts. They are an indispensable support for our judicial system and are, of course, a great relief for the judges. A brief overview of the main changes that we will adopt in this law: We adjust the value limits due to the money depreciation. In part, we reorientate the jurisdictions between judges and lawyers. We avoid multi-competences and bundles of issues among legal practitioners. We are creating – and that is, I believe, a very important point that is thanks to God to us here – two-tracks in the administration are done away with. We are clarifying where judges are again responsible, namely in difficult matters, such as the adaptation of foreign execution titles. Mr. Minister, you can't just listen, I know you're looking back and forth! Should there be problems in the future with the issue of personnel utilization of law enforcement officers, I am sure that you will be able to pay attention to this quickly. We really cannot use bottlenecks in this area. I would like to conclude by expressing my respect for the legal caretakers in Austria for their work done so far. I think they're absolute professionals in their field. They are not to be thought away from Austrian jurisdiction, and I thank them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20028	Mr Feichtinger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20049	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The colleague Steinacker started with a quote from a Past President. To what extent the President-elect will be capable of quoting in the future remains to be expected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I hope that the quality of his quotes or statements will improve over the course of his term of office. The colleague Steinacker has already done a lot about the content of the novel. We have already welcomed this unanimously in the Committee and today, I hope, will also decide unanimously. It is an opportunity here to bring the lawyer, the lawyer, before the curtain, so to speak, and to respect the services provided by those non-judicial officials of the judicial system, the judicial system and the functioning of that Republic accordingly. I do not know if all of you know this, but we also have a member of this spirit – if you want to call it that way – here in the House for more than a year. It is Mr Brückl, who has previously made a few profound remarks on the issue of the Rules of Procedure, who, as far as I could take this out of his CV, is also the chairman of a branch office at the District Court. The colleague Steinacker has already mentioned this: The lawyer is a little the unknown being in the judicial system for the standard subject. Most then have only Mr. or Mrs. Rat somewhere in mind, but the lawyers, the law enforcement officers, make a significant contribution to the functioning of the judiciary, especially in the field of basic book law, company book law and in many other areas, such as, for example, cases of execution, insolvency, leave proceedings, childhood law, matters of property law and similar matters. We therefore expressly welcome this amendment, also with a view to the better demarcation of jurisdiction between the judges and the lawyers and also by the adjustment or adjustment of the value limits to be carried out. Mr. Federal Minister, I have heard with joy – and I believe Hannes Jarolim, who is unfortunately ill today, too – that you are working on a draft for collective complaints. This will save you in the future in the Committee on Justice, which he almost always asks. I don't want to miss it at the end of the day – and I hope you will be happy to repeat your advertising for "www.jailshop.at". [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Schrangl.]] I have already been asked by colleagues which products will probably be available there. You don't need to be afraid, it's not the products that some or some people might imagine. Look Just go there! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20116	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20138	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, consensus criteria – and this is the last item on the agenda – are of course difficult to discuss. [[Abg. Wöginger: We're not used to it!]] In that case, I can in fact give my previous speakers almost completely right. The lawyers are a real success model in our judicial system. For example, it is known that 80 percent of the cases of law enforcement are decided in the District Courts, so you can see how important this is. It has also been mentioned that, in fact, when it comes to insolvency and execution as a legal subject, the main focus is on law enforcement, and this works excellently. Anyone who has to do with it in practice knows that it is extremely pleasant to work with law enforcement officers that it simply works very easily. It is therefore very gratifying that there is now this novel, in which, on the one hand, the activities of the lawyers are extended and on the other hand, there are some clarifications on the jurisdiction between judges and lawyers; so in total, this is one of our very useful new rules, which we therefore support. Our only criticism is, or that which we believe there will actually be something to improve, is that, due to the shift in value limits from now on, legal caregivers will have to do a lot more; and we are therefore convinced that there will have to be human changes or at least increases. At least two Oberlandesgerichts referred to this. This has been wiped away in the discussion so far, and it has been thought that this would not be necessary. I think it will be. All in all, then, this is a welcome change, with a limitation on the likely need to increase with regard to law enforcement. However, it is gratifying that there is such a success model and that it is still being continued and expanded.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20174	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20196	I will join where my previous speaker has stopped: in the personal situation of the legal guardians. If we move value limits, but at the same time do not do anything at the same time, the logical consequence is that the same number of law enforcement officers must work more. In principle, it could be said: Well, you're working more! – The consequence, however, is that citizens then have to wait longer for certain results to be achieved by the employees concerned, and if we take the opinion of OLG Graz, this has been expressed very clearly. The OLG Graz has said that there are no 58 planning points; especially in the sensitive area of leave proceedings and maintenance procedures, the utilization is 125 percent in the area of law enforcement. I don't think that you can't go by and say that you're changing the value limits and upgrading the legal caretakers, but then you can't follow the re-adjustment and re-orientation of the planning sites. This is a half-reform that will make it possible for a certain professional group to deal with their work more seriously and that the rights seekers must wait longer. In my opinion, this has to be clearly improved, and it will not happen either. I have the feeling that when you look at this novel, there was also a ring with the judges, but you can't handle it on a professional level. It is legitimate that any representation of interest, of course, calls for as many plans for itself as possible, but we, as parliamentarians, as Members, naturally have the whole thing to keep in mind. And there follows on from this novelle and the increasing importance of the legal caretakers already the responsibility to create the necessary planning points. A second point, which I believe can be seen in perspective – which we have already discussed in the Committee, and if I remember correctly, you are also positive about this – is the upgrading of the training of the legal caretakers. The association of diploma law caregivers in Austria suggests that we take up higher education at high school, and that is what I consider to be a right and important step. The increasing importance of law enforcement in the judicial system should also be combined with better training in order to underline the importance and value of the work of the law enforcement staff and, in order to be able to give them some kind of task in perspective. This would be possible if the education – which does not, of course, correspond to a jus study – was at high school level, because then it also has academic level. The last point: What is another area of application or field of application for law enforcement officers? – There is an area for which we created the constitutional conditions for the use of law enforcement officers a few years ago, but which we have not done so far. That's criminal law. Up to now, the law enforcement officers are exclusively active in civil law. However, I believe that at the time, for good reasons, we were able to create the conditions for including law enforcement officers in criminal law; of course, not at the level of judges within the meaning of decision-making. However, I do believe that there are areas of application where one can relieve jurisdiction while at the same time using law enforcement officers. I would remind you, for example, of the monitoring of different measures, of the monitoring of therapy instead of punishment. That's an activity where you have to look at it profoundly. However, this does not necessarily have to be done by the judge or the judge, which may also be able to do so to lawyers and lawyers who, of course, also need their own training. In this sense, my suggestions are to look beyond the meaningful novels to the planning situation, to extend the task of the lawyers, but also to follow up on the training. I think it makes sense to raise these to an academic level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20247	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20268	Madam President. Federal Minister! As has already been said, in unanimous decisions – if everyone agrees on a subject – it is difficult. But it also has something good, of course, because that means that it is borne by a broad consensus. I believe that everyone who once had to do with the activity of law enforcement knows what valuable and meaningful work is being done there, and will continue to do so in the future. I think it makes sense, at least, to expand the skills here. In many areas, it is simply an increase in the value limit, which makes sense only because of inflation, and it makes sense that we hand over more competences to lawyers. Nevertheless, I believe – Mrs Steinacker, Mr Stefan and Mr Steinhauser have mentioned it – that, even if we differ in our opinion here and you say that this will at least be done with the human resources, you must take the opinions very seriously and look at what is contained in these opinions. If you look at the figures and see that, especially in the field of out-of-courts, when you look at the OLG Graz, the utilization is already close to 125 percent, that is, far above that, and that we had loads of 118 percent in 2015 all over the country, then we must be very careful that we have enough planning sites. I know that you have almost the hope – and I share it to a certain extent – that the efficiency increases will lead to lower utilization. If that's the case, it's good. Nevertheless, we must have a wake-up Together, keep an eye on the fact that if we give more competence to law enforcement officers, the utilization will be appropriate. The other thing, which, I believe, is also important – there are two points that Mr Steinhauser has raised – is the question of training: We have already discussed this in the Committee. I, too, believe that it would make no sense for us to discuss training at high school level here. I'm one who's more skeptical. I say that you have to be careful that things are not unnecessarily academic; but I believe that this would at least make sense in the field of legal care, because, especially now, with the expansion of the competences, there is simply an ever-increasing responsibility and at least it can make sense to do the training at a technical college. Where I disagree with Mr Steinhauser – so that the discussion here is not quite so unanimous – the question is to what extent law enforcement officers should be used in the criminal field. There has been a tendency in recent years that we are taking more and more away from the independent judge. I believe that the system of independent judges should be used much more in many areas. We have the situation over and over again that we take competences from the independent judge here and think about other constructions. That's why I'm very skeptical. Especially in such an incredibly sensitive area as criminal law, you have to be careful. Discussions can be held, but I believe that you should be very careful. To conclude: I mean, it's a good reform. We only need to see that in practice we do this well; and here we are all required that this can work.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20327	Next, Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20348	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendment provides for a more meaningful division of duties between law enforcement officers and law enforcement officers, on the one hand, and judges on the other, and, on the other hand, for greater efficiency in the sense of targeted staffing. This is also urgently needed in order to cope with the volume of work and, above all, to relieve judges. Of course, the adequate training and further training of the legal and judicial staff is to be kept in mind. It should also be noted that the planning sites are sufficiently occupied and, where appropriate, increased. The aim is to maintain longer periods of procedure. Especially in the case of district court proceedings, in the case of family decisions, it is particularly dramatic if, above all, dependants have to wait long, too long for decisions. This not only has psychological effects, but sometimes also financial, social consequences that we do not want to accept. That is why I would like to remind you at a later hour, Mr Minister, that it is urgently necessary to improve a lot in maintenance law, to reduce the duration of the procedure. Although some things have already happened, there is still a lot to do. I have drawn your previous speech from the fact that there is very much awareness of the problem. I also take this with me at the end of this long day here in Parliament, namely that this day not only ends very well with a unanimous decision, but also with the firm decision to further improve the maintenance system in Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20380	Mr Brandstetter is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20402	Madam President. Only very briefly, so that the consent may be easier: Mr Steinhauser is quite right when he says that you have to keep an eye on this. That is why I just wanted to say in addition that, of course, we already have a very close eye on the overall burden of the courts. We have – and this is always raised quite precisely – in district courts there or there noticed that there are areas where the burden is falling. You have to take that into account. That is to say, there is quite the possibility of retranspatriation. It is true that what is now regulated by the law enforcement law would not cause any real problems, namely the postponement of these responsibilities, and that this was, of course, also developed in agreement with the professional groups concerned. That's what I really want to say: We have everything in mind, that is also very important. The law enforcement officers are an extremely skilled and also very sympathetic professional group, for which I would like to do more if it is possible. I'm quite on your line, but of course you know: I can't create new planning sites, the Federal Chancellor's Office is in charge. Even if I get these, I have to make sure that I'm financing, and that's what the Ministry of Finance is responsible for. I can't do this alone. I depend on support, including your support. I thank you for that already in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20439	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1295 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:25:51]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-11-09-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00150_d7e20487	I announce that in today's session the self-employed applications have been submitted by 1879/A to 1890/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 21.26 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
