ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e5612	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. The 132. The meeting of the National Council is open. The official protocols of 128 and 129. Meeting of 18 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 19 and 20. ==References====External links== ==References== In May 2016, the management of the Parliament was unable to raise any objections. Deputies Heinzl, Mag. Smoking, ing. Hackl, Schrangl and Ing. Hofer. [[09:06:12]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e5646	The following letter was received from the Federal Chancellor: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 25 February, has been the subject of a resolution. May 2016 (...) on my proposal the Federal Minister without a Portefeuille Mag. Thomas Drozda, in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, removed from the Office and appointed him as Federal Minister in the Federal Chancellor's Office under Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 77(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act. He will have the term ‘Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Media’.” Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e5675	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter will be the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Karmasin and the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Alois Stöger will be the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Mag in the evening. It's easy to see. I announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 10 a.m. ORF III will be transferred live, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.45 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:07:57]] Memories for the Victims of the Terror Attack in Orlando
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e5725	Ladies and gentlemen! We have received the news of the terrible attack in Orlando, in which 49 people were murdered by a suspected Islamist and homophobic perpetrator according to current information. Let me say it again: As democrats, we have the task of confronting extremists and their targeted attacks on our way of life and our open social order. If people are attacked because of their origin, political or religious beliefs or sexual orientation, this is an attack on all of us. Our compassion applies to the families and friends of the murdered. But our compassion also applies to all those people who have been victims of terror and war in the past weeks and months. I would ask you to rise from the seats in the sign of solidarity and commemoration. [[Those present rise from their seats and persist for some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take up their seats again.]] [[09:09:45]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e5772	With this we will now arrive at the current hour on the subject: “Safety instead of asylum-numbering tricks, Mr. Federal Chancellor!” Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e5799	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and in front of the screens! Mr Bundeskanzler, at the beginning of your accession you have received quite a lot of advance locust berries, on the one hand from your own party, but also from the Greens and various media. A lot of advance berry has been given to you: You're almost a mixture of Obama, Kennedy, Kreisky and I don't know what else is going on; many things have been highly stylized there. But unfortunately, at the outset, we have had to find relatively quickly that the advance lady bears are already withered, but it has become apparent that in many areas the new style of which was spoken at the outset is not being lived, and that asylum and security – yes, I can only formulate it – is almost insolently acted as from your predecessor. If you experience that the numbers of asylum applications of people who have come to Austria are miscalculated and number trickery is taking place, then this is simply unfair and dishonest. It seems that there is a conscious attempt here to make arbitrary adjustments to the statistics, and this, of course, continues to be at the expense of the Austrian population. This is an irresponsible policy if you simply do not deal honestly with these figures and try to trick them here. Speaking of new style, and I would also like to say this: If in the daily newspaper “Austria” in an interview of interviewers – probably Mr Fellner – Austria now believes that Austria is conveying a picture of the legal radicals due to the many voters for the presidential candidate Hofer, namely, 2.2 million Austrians, and you are replying to it, yes, that is unpleasant, and that is not to reject, then this is not a good new style, but an exasperating one! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] [[Abg. Kickl: scandalous!]] If your number of asylum figures and the tricks you have lived there naturally lead to discussions in the public and then you say that this number discussion is basically not particularly interested in you, then I must say: The Austrian population is very interested in the true figures and does not want to be dizzy. You can't even call it otherwise. After all, the Austrians have to pay the price for this mispolicy, namely financial, security policy, social policy and social policy. That is why the Austrian population has a right to face the honest figures and to rely on the statements made. If one has spoken of limits and indicative values in the past, then it has become visible again at the latest by the fact that this has apparently been a purely marketing-gag of the government. That means, unfortunately, one has to insist that one does not seriously mean with such ceilings or indicative values and apparently intends to break the agreement with tricks again, and we have to expect again over the course of this year that we will reach far more than this set number of ceilings. This is not fair, and it is not “selastic” as a former defense minister once called it when it comes to your computing skills. I am telling you, with all that is enshrined in statistics, that we have to deal with it honestly. And it can't be the motto, Mr. Kern, that you say I don't count them and that's why they don't exist. That is reality, and we have to mention the actual numbers by name. And there are already far more than 22,000 asylum applications and not 11 000, as falsely presented. Among them are, of course, Dublin cases. However, since Austria will only shift a fraction of it back, these asylum seekers themselves will be beaten in a corrected core statistics. That is why it cannot be! That's not decent, and that's why it belongs to the subject, because you can't leave it in the room like that. I know that at the time, as head of the ÖBB in the course of the refugee flows from Hungary towards Austria, where everyone was also legally admitted, you made transfers towards the German border with the ÖBB. This was not necessarily the way we would have imagined it, because it has not really served society well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has already been said, and we have also criticized the fact that the state has acted as a state-owned tractor organisation. We also see that all the fears we have expressed in connection with an EU/Turkey deal are confirmed, which, of course, has not been taken and has not been successful. And it is critical to ask why, with a country that is so incredibly negative, namely, in the direction of an authoritarian structure, one is seeking something like this, with a country in which there is a president who, on the occasion of the World Women's Day, shoots women with rubber shots, who storms media houses with police force, because they are opposition-friendly, in which Members are deprived of their immunity, because they do not face one where the Kurdish minority is being violently dealt with. If someone is looking for a partnership with this kind of person, you can only be surprised and caught by the head, because you should decide sanctions instead of looking for a partnership that will not be successful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I look at all these developments, up to the failure to protect the EU's external borders, where the European Union has not been able for some time, even though the subject has now accompanied us for over a year and a half, since it is going to take some steps to create sustainability, and if hundreds of thousands of people from Africa are now on the move to Europe and towards the EU's external borders, then this is a problem that we have to deal with, and there is also a need for appropriate answers. Of course, something has to be done in these regions too. Just to transfer the third world billions doesn't make sense, but if, then, project-related support needs to be available on-site so that one can open perspectives in these countries and on this continent and thus counter-direct this development and communicate clearly and clearly: Please don't try to come to us for economic reasons, we can't pick you up! We will save you on high seas, but we will send you back to the ports from which you have run out. But all of this is not happening today from the European Union. The effects of the last year until today show that the security situation in Austria has unfortunately been greatly affected by God. I think of the bloody gang wars we experience in the cities of Austria, mainly in Vienna, whether they are Chechen bands or anywhere. Yes, this, of course, employs the population and also the executive. I am thinking of the crime which has been proven to have exploded, precisely because of disorderly mass immigration under the cover of the Asylum Act, where one knows that the vast majority of people who have been admitted to us are not refugees within the meaning of the Geneva Convention. Or I am thinking of the fact that only one third of the rejected asylum seekers will leave or be postponed voluntarily and that 200 000 immigrants have been fighting for an illegal stay with us since 2000. If you look at the raw data of the security monitor, where all the police-occupied crimes are listed, it is clear that crime has increased significantly in Austria. Of course, there is also a responsibility for this. Minister of the Interior Sobotka has said – I quote him again – that: “The crime in Austria among the asylum seekers is increasing – also in an attack on the population” – citations. And the Minister of the Interior will know what he is saying. Since 2001 – as long as there have been methodologically immediately comparable criminal statistics – the number of Austrian suspects has increased from 156 720 to 157 777 in 2015, but the number of foreign suspects doubled from 47 256 to 92 804 in the same period. You can't just ignore these numbers. And here, too, the core mathematics does not help anything, which may then go here and try to halve these figures in the criminal statistics in the future by a new way of collecting them. No, that's the wrong way! We must face up to the realities, and we need the right answers to these realities in order to counter them. Since last autumn, more than 2,000 police officers have been promised. We have known these promises for some time now. These are still not really implemented, these promises do not hold. We have experienced new shots, but these new shots do not even fill the gap of the natural departure of those police officers who retire, and the allocations and decommissionings for danger situations are ultimately too few. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] We really need – I am already at the end – 2 000 planning places for executive officials, which are also filled up. Under the rule we have a security problem, and it is important to counter it and to live a new style there or there and not to continue old, outdated, flawed political patterns.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e5874	For a preliminary opinion, Mr. Bundeskanzler Mag. Reported at the heart of the debate. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e5905	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache, as you know – or what you will probably not be surprised – I am happy about your tone. The volume, I think, was appropriate to the subject. [[Abg. Kickl: That was normal!]] I do not, of course, share your assessments of content in many respects, but in one point I am sure, and that is the sentence you have said: We must face the realities! I am quite right in giving you this, because this is, of course, our access to this question, which is, in fact, unfit for intensifications, for a tone that may go to the brink of hatred. [[Abg. Kickl: Hetzung?! Please what?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But today we will try to have a civilized debate in a meaningful dialogue. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what we have experienced during the last few weeks in discussions is something that we should have thoughtfully voted on. I therefore feel that the plea for a civilised tone in this debate is so important because we know from history that the violence of words can be discharged very quickly in a violence of acts. [[Abg. Strache: To accumulate 2.2 million voters as a right-wing radical, that was your tone, Mr. Bundeskanzler! You should apologise to the voters for this! That would be appropriate once!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bitch: To accumulate 2.2 million voters as right-wing radical, that's scandalous!]] Mr. Strache! Mr. Strache, quite frankly: After the evening yesterday, I admire all the more that you are able to get so quickly again today. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: That was funny!]] Maybe just a short consideration: If we listen to what you're trying to do, what kind of picture do we create? What's going on over there except for the noise, except for the break-up? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What image do you create with your...? Something new every day!]] They have said that we should face up to the realities, and that is what we are ready to do in every respect. [[Abg. Kickl: Apparently not!]] I think that on this basis we should discuss, but the violence of words poses the risk of a violence following actions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The most dangerous are the homeless!]] [[Call the FPÖ:... much more risky!]] And I can tell you: In this discussion that we are currently holding, it is a possible short way from this intensification, from this violence of words to burning refugee homes. We have experienced this in recent weeks, and it is a responsibility that we have – the government side, but of course also the opposition side – to engage in a meaningful dialogue here. I would also like to tell you that what is happening there – with all the consideration of political opportunities or tactical considerations, to whom this can be used, to whom the voice can impress, is a fear of many citizens. They don't want that. They expect us to deal differently with these problems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: And that's why 2.2 million voters are cursed as right-wing radicals!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You need to be a little more careful what the interviews are about...!]] Let me just say something: The spirits you call will not get rid of you as soon as possible, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. Street: 2.2 million voters to be called right-wing radial, that's your access and style?]] – Do you know what your access is? In this discussion, we should be careful not to create a construction where the “we” and “the others” are concerned, the inferiors, the indescribables, the ones we do not want in our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: And what are you doing up there? What are you doing? Is that what you're saying?]] And maybe you've taken some insight from yesterday's day, maybe you've noticed something by the intensive observation – I'm talking about football. You were probably also sitting with red-white-red scarf yesterday and with great expectations and enthusiasm in front of the TV. I'm just saying, Dragović, Alaba, Junuzović, Garics and so on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and call of the coffin. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Garics was just changing yesterday!]] What our football team is presenting here is a mirror of our society and is a mirror of our history, and it also shows what opportunities there are in social developments when one approaches them together and tries to find solutions. Of course you're right: We are facing a big challenge here. That's clear, no one can close their eyes before that. We do not need to discuss this for a second, but the question is: What answers are we able to give? – And in the whole subject of immigration, there are a few points that are very important to us to take care of together. For example, this is the question: How can we shorten asylum procedures? For example, this is the question: How can we bring return agreements within the EU, but ultimately outside? [[Abg. Kickl: What about answers?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: People want answers!]] Hans Peter Doskozil again held intensive discussions with the Hungarian colleagues yesterday on how we can find solutions. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do not discuss, do!]] [[Abg. Kickl: What the Doskozil wants, we know, we want to know what you want!]] This is the right way, and I would ask you to support it, because of course it is a matter of course that we take care to ensure that applicable law in Europe – the Dublin rules – is also respected. That must be our goal. We can't put the head in the sand and say: We don't care about all of this. We're resigning. It's none of our business. – Our goal must be to find solutions in this regard as well. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, how about the numbers now?]] And then, of course, it's about help on the ground, because you're right, because we have to do much more in Austria, that's not a question at all. We probably neglected our tasks there or there. But it does not make much sense, honestly, to criticise the Turkish deal. Yes, as far as human rights are concerned, I share your opinions – even that is not a question – but if you say that is not a solution, I may ask you to present an alternative proposal that will prevent the problems from getting bigger in the end; they should be smaller. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We already have that!]] [[Abg. Street: The billions are not investing in Turkey, but in border protection!]] The safeguarding of the external borders – this is also important. I should like to mention: Hans Peter Doskozil and the Federal Army, I think, have made a distinguished job. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's what we know.]] That's why we have to take care of each other together. That's where I'd ask you for support. But above all, and the most important question is the question of integration, because [[Abg. Kickl: And how about the numbers? Because that's the theme!]] You rightly say, of course, that we have to take care of the phenomenon of crime, and you are also right to say that someone who has done something has no place in our society. I share this view – we cannot practice false tolerance either – but at the end of the day the crucial challenge is: [[Abg. Kickl: How many are we talking about?]] How do we deal with the people who are here? Because you can't spell them away. [[Abg. Kickl: How many are they?]] This is a global development. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And if you say that you want to deal seriously with the issue of crime, then you have to be aware, here we are not just talking about police measures, here we are talking about the need for social security, here we are talking about education, here we are talking about perspectives for people who have arrived in our country and are likely to stay here. [[Abg. Kickl: Could you say something about the subject?]] [[Call the FPÖ: But we don't want that!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I thought there was asylum on time!]] If we don't, then we have the situation that we young boys, aged 17 to 18, don't give families a perspective for two years. We're in danger of losing them. If we do not give them the perspective and the prospects for employment, for integration into our society, then what will happen? – They're going to walk around in parks, they're going to be on the street, and that's not our goal. [[Abg. Strache: There they meet those who are not yet integrated in the third generation!]] We need to get those away from the street to prevent someone from coming here on stupid ideas. That would be a reasonable access. I have to say in this regard that I have heard from you what is not going on in this regard, but I have not been aware of the direction in which your proposals are actually going, which does not make dialogue any easier. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is your proposal! Tell me your suggestions!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:We are in opposition!]] Social security, I said, is an important answer, education is an important answer, integration is an important answer – but of course it would be naïve to say that we do not have to answer security questions here too. If you really want to know these numbers in detail, which I do not believe at all, then you can check with the Minister of the Interior, in the end he publishes it every month. Then you have a realistic picture of what's going on. [[Abg. Kickl: But you're already a...?]] In particular, the Minister of the Interior has also presented a proposal here, namely that there should be, in particular, the 2 000 police officers you are quoting by the year 2019. There is a very reasonable process between the federal army and the police to free up another 170 police forces, namely by taking over the army's control of the embassies. These are very concrete, meaningful proposals. And you know that the addiction law, that's since 1. In June, the police have also been given much better access to the criminal scene. So what the picture looks like finally: Yes, we have a challenge to solve, yes, we will not only be able to solve it with security police measures, but those who are necessary have been set. And the successes – that has become apparent in recent weeks – that the Minister of the Interior has achieved here are quite tangible. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where? Where exactly did they become noticeable?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6438	I would draw your attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers is a maximum of 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6462	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the FPÖ: Bilderberger!]] It was already significant: Federal Chancellor Christian Kern first welcomes the fact that the tone in the debate is a rather calmer and more moderate – and precisely when it is welcomed, the cry and screams begin in the liberal sector. [[Abg. I'm sorry.]] This shows exactly that you obviously do not want such questions to be discussed once in a reasonable tone. [[Abg. Kickl: I've heard the loudest gejohle lately at Vienna City Hall Square, on 1st. May!]] It is hard to say that you have a half-thinking tone in your speech, but you prove that you have actually managed only with the utmost reluctance to stand here, because what has now been shown in your bank series in the debate is exactly the opposite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] Otherwise, it is with the government fractions here in the house, because it is important to play in the entire area of refugees with open cards. It doesn't make sense to beautify any things that are not easy to talk about, but at the same time it doesn't make sense to dramatize, exaggerate, or spread fears where this is not targeted and there may even be solutions. That is to say, the solution of the refugee topic or the attempt to address the approach in the refugee topic is to deal with realism, with respect and with a decent approach to the question. And this is not only about human dignity, respect and these issues, it is certainly also about public and social security and it is a necessary measure of order, which must also be ensured in these processes at the same time. But for us the supply and, above all, the integration of asylum seekers in Austria is certainly in the foreground. When people come to us, there has to be a quick decision – first – whether they are covered by the asylum regime, whether they are entitled to asylum under the Geneva Refugee Convention or not. Secondly, If this question is positive, people will also be able to provide what they need as a tool for life here in Austria. These are language courses, that is integration, and this is the opportunity to allow them to recognise their qualifications at home, or, if they lack skills, to give them the opportunity to acquire qualifications as soon as possible. It is also about education and compulsory education, especially among young people, that, although they come at an age when they are no longer subject to compulsory schooling, they should nevertheless be given the opportunity to go to school in the interests of our society. However, it is also part of the fact that those people who do not receive asylum status, where the question has been examined, which I believe needs to be resolved quickly, must go back to the countries from which they came, and this also urgently requires the implementation of return agreements, return agreements and the best EU agreements with the countries to take over the return. It is also clear, however, that we cannot do this alone in the European context, so there is also a need for European paths and there is a need for pressure within the European Union to ensure fair distribution among all countries. And if you, Mr Strache, would like to be photographed with a glass of wheat beer on summits in Germany with the right leaders, then it would be good if you were to talk to them once, just as they can help to ensure that there is a fair distribution in Europe, because this would give your country – Austria – a good service. [[Abg. Strache: That's the topic of hotze! The issue of hotze, Mr Schieder!]] [[Abg. Strache: They will soon overtake the SPD!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] But you've done the most good thing to sleep up to now. [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. El Habbassi.]] Second point: We must, I think, be careful in this whole subject, namely our society as a whole, because what we are experiencing – I mention only the last weekend or the last week in Vienna, as a maroding right-wing radical gangs have moved through the city – this is an image that we all have to try to prevent. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] Especially with you, Mr Strache, we lack the strategy that you are involved in preventing this, because if the University of Klagenfurt is stormed by identities and then is a FPÖ official, Mr Luca Kerbl, who is still in your ranks and about whom you have not cleaned up, then you have to participate here so that we no longer have such a thing in Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: What's been stormed? Something has been stormed?! Stop it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: What about the VSStÖ and the green audiences?]] Or if we read on your Facebook page that a Werner G. writes that you should miss a “quick ball” to the Federal Chancellor, it is also a radicalization and language on the web that cannot be tolerated. [[Abg. Kickl: Now I already believe that this is the manuscript of Niedermühlbichler! Now I think it's pretty slow!]] [[Abg. Strache:... Dufermühlbichler commissioned, or what?]] That's when I expect you to talk about order, you make order in your ranks. This would be urgently necessary for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6671	The next item is the report by Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6692	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! If we have a recent hour on the subject of “Security instead of asylum-talking tricks, Mr. Bundeskanzler!” you can only agree to that. I think you have to be: One must be safe, and one must of course be opposed to numerical trickery. - No question, I'll give you absolutely right. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But this is not the issue either, but the issue is, as I mean, how we deal with this really difficult, challenging situation; and the problems and challenges that we have through admittedly dramatic migration numbers are not alone in trying to present it in part. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: A little bit already!]] [[Abg. Kickl: But it's already migration!]] I'm giving you a point right – and I'm really looking for the constructive discourse there: There is no doubt that certain movements have been underestimated by some. And it was certainly also an error to rely on the Dublin procedure for too long and to realize that it is no longer working without at the same time in the matter of Schengen, open borders and so on. I am absolutely right in this regard. So, but here we stand, and it is not least this Federal Government that owes the current situation – I recall the Balkan Conference, I recall the countless talks that our Foreign Minister, the former Minister of the Interior, the current Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence and others have conducted at all levels in order to bring about solutions. The lack of solidarity within Europe is undoubtedly a problem, but I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in particular the Freedom Party: What will bring us closer to the solution, the debates that our members of the government and others are holding at European level in order to achieve solutions, or your visiting and questionable invitation policy, Mr Strache? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What has been done here by a large number of intervention agencies, by a large number of volunteers working day and night to help those who have come, was valuable, but now we come to a situation where many of these volunteers have told us – including you; especially the representatives in the constituencies hear this – that a border has been reached where many say: We can't be anymore! There is also a capacity limit, for example on the question of quarters. They recall the really unsightly debates when we had to put countless refugees in tents because we had no fixed quarters, so where we actually reached something like a capacity limit. That is why it is good and right that the Federal Government has agreed on this capacity limit and has said that we must set an honest ceiling here, because the capacity limits have just been reached. [[Abg. Strache: The one but nothing worth it is in such numbers trickery!]] This is the right way, Mr Strache, and I ask you: [[Abg. They're not worth anything in these number tricks, Mr. Amon! That's why it's right now!]] Support You will find this way in a constructive way! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] There is no doubt, Mr Strache, about the definition of this ceiling. It refers to the number of persons entitled to the asylum procedure in 2016. We currently hold with a number of 18 950. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Including Dublin?]] If you address the Dublin question, Mr Rosenkranz, I would also like to make it quite clear to you that we are, hopefully, within the European Union in a legal area in which repatriation must also work. [[Abg. Street, including Dublin?]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Walter Rosenkranz]] [[Abg. Stache: First, you say Dublin is not working! A wonderful contradiction: You just said it doesn't work, and at once it works?- Oh, my God!]] We know that's hard enough. It's also Your right to criticise other countries that do not allow these returnes, but it does not change the fact that we have to have to fight for them at European level and at international level, because, Mr. Strache, in the case of some 8,000 returns that have taken place last year, there have always been cases where pilots have flown to Pakistan and the local authorities have then decided something different than originally promised, and many have been sent back. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Street: Where was Mr. Foreign Minister? Where was the Foreign Minister last year?]] – Mr. Strache...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6857	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6873	Mr Strache, you cannot pretend to be able to solve this with your colleague Le Pen here in Vienna. Only through constructive discussions can this problem be solved.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6910	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e6932	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Every time, in a debate on the lack of access by the Federal Government to the subject areas of asylum and immigration, you still have no awareness of the problem – especially the Federal Chancellor! I have to ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler – and I would now like to look at you on this question in order to track your mimik: Have you ever asked yourself the question of what you were elected as Chancellor or put into this function, not elected by the population, but nominated? – To bear responsibility and deal correctly with the Republic of Austria and also with your delegated responsibility! [[Abg. Strache: Not chosen!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, as a guest here in the House, you have spoken in a special form of superiority to the Members of the House, only above a polemising speech by Mr Klubobmann's coffer, who has rarely occurred here in this way or in this levellessness. I have to tell you: You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and you, ladies and gentlemen, in particular those of the Social Democracy, may have been deprived of the fact that the Austrian population is not least due to Their failure to do so has suffered from uncontrolled mass immigration under the cover of asylum, and on the one hand, it is not just a matter of time, not just since yesterday, but for more than a year, and that is only the beginning of a truly international migration that is due to us. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If we think of all of this, this awareness of problem in itself, then we must say: It would have been a long time – I emphasize: for a long time now! - to act. That's why: Stop discussing, and start ruling, because for that, you are in this function! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But if you do not want to shoulder this responsibility in this Federal Government, you will open the way for new elections – for those responsible in this country who want to respect and maintain our own people, our own people, our home, our traditions, our social and health state and our safety! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] I tell you, Federal Chancellor: The New Deal announced by you is nothing but an asylum deal, an asylum deal for the asylum industry, for the tractors – in parentheses: [[Abg. Street: And the machine tax is an additional tax!]] Schleppermafia – but also for the economic migrants of this world, because it has not changed anything. You held it yourself today – I thought I didn't hear it right! – when you said here that the strangers who came to us will be “probably permanent” in Austria. [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] Those were your words, Federal Chancellor! – This is a massive and irresponsible continuation of the invitation policy of recent months and years to our taxpayers, our population and our home country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the one hand, beautiful numbers of asylums are being worked on, on the other hand, a large container village is being rebuilt in Carinthia, in Villach, for example, and it continues to have the right of entry, across Austria, only because one is unable to play its own power and to keep those people outside of the country who simply have nothing to look for here. Because it is said here that the Dublin agreement was not applicable: Of course it was applicable, you just didn't apply it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At any time, on the Austrian border, any stranger who came from Slovenia or from Italy across the Austrian border could have said: Back, you have not been persecuted in Slovenia, you have not been persecuted in Italy, these states are not trying after your life, and for this reason we in Austria have the right to reject you under Dublin Agreement! There is no right to asylum in Austria for those who want to enter Austria from safe third countries, for example, to continue to want to go to Germany in order to seek asylum, many of them being dragged through, continue to be carried through state support. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I'll tell you: The Federal Government would be well advised to finally take the step, to say, if someone wants to continue to Germany, first of all, to give Germany the promise that this person will also be taken up there, because then there will be no rescinding or rescinding from Germany to Austria, because Germany will also have the responsibility if it wants to have that person. Just taking in everyone, dragging through state-funded, but is just as unresponsible as our people to lift up all that you have broken through lack of courage and lack of responsibility in your government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also an insanity and speaks for itself and against this government that you are not ready to finally reduce the social benefits for foreigners in that country, for one thing is clear: There is an inequality of treatment for all our citizens, who have worked for Austria for a lifetime, have spent a lifetime in our system, have provided services for our society for a lifetime and, in part or most of the less entitled to social benefits and health care in Austria today, than those people who come to Austria to join us in the social network. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, the Federal Government is well advised to finally act and, as I said earlier, stop, discuss, and finally start ruling.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7055	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7076	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests at the gallery and all the citizens who watch us in front of their screens! I want to start with a big bow: What are we talking about when we talk about the international refugee situation? We are talking about a situation in which, according to the United Nations, 60 million people worldwide are displaced and in search of protection. 60 million people! The UN itself says that this is the highest number of people seeking protection and displaced since the end of World War II. Syria, Iraq, Eritrea, Sudan, South Sudan: These are scenes of war, deportation, mass murder, mass rape that we have been reading about for years as media consumers and consumers. I would remind you that after the Second World War, the Convention on Refugees was held in the face of millions of civilians murdered in two World Wars – six million Jews in World War II; Roma and Sinti, homosexuals, communists, socialists were persecuted or killed – that the Geneva refugee convention was not created from Jux and Tollery, but that it was created by the state community, because millions of people were murdered in wars, raped. This is the international legal situation we are in. We have anchored international refugee protection with the Refugee Convention. What is the situation in the neighbouring countries of war and crisis countries? – In small Lebanon, which is about the size of Upper Austria, every fourth person is now a refugee. Every fourth person! These are the conditions we are talking about when we speak here with us about protection seekers, persecuted, displaced people. What do I want to say with all these figures? – I would like to emphasise once again that a solution is only possible internationally and jointly. The fact that no one country in this world can take up 60 million refugees is obvious, therefore there is only the possibility of international solutions. And when you say, We are now closing, we are taking 37,000 people seeking protection and not any more!, then we have to think a step further: What happens if that also says a second country, a third, a tenth, a twentieth? [[Abg. Rädler: You must ask the Federal Chancellor!]] Every country closes – the last ones bite the dogs! It is also seen that we depend on common solutions, that it is not alone, but that national policy is not at all the case. What is the solution I propose to the Greens? Firstly, massive support for those countries that have so far received hundreds of thousands of protection seekers. – Kenya, for example, has received hundreds of thousands of Sudanese refugees and has been very much abandoned by the international community for years. The support of those countries, in which hundreds of thousands, some millions of refugees have been accommodated, is still lacking. Secondly, We need binding admission quotas for all EU countries. Yes, Austria cannot accept all the applicants for protection, nor can Sweden; but the European Union, which consists of 28 countries, has 500 million inhabitants, can absorb people if all countries are stopped to comply with fixed, binding quotas. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In order to make this possible, we also need a massive redistribution of the EU budget towards those countries that are responsible and take up refugees. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thirdly, All the political energy we have in common should be put into these international solutions, instead of defining figures and saying: No more coming into the country! Finally, I would like to talk about the current situation. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] – I am at the end of my speech, Madam President. – The violence of the words very often follows the white physical violence. We now have the situation that right-wing theatre performances are storming because refugees there are playing that right-wing extreme...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7126	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7141	Final sentence: If right-wing university lectures storm and threaten the rector of the University of Klagenfurt and beat him, then a point is reached where you have to say: Stop it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our society, our social cohesion, we will not let ourselves be taken. [[Abg. Lugar: Madam President, speaking time...!]] Solidarity...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7181	Madam President, you have exhausted your speaking time. [[Call the FPÖ: At Weitem!]] [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Korun.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7215	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I believe that the most important thing is that we really conduct the debate in a matter of fact, because I do not think we will come to any solutions here otherwise. We know that, as a result of the fact that some of this debate has been held in the past within the Federal Government or also in this Parliament, it has not been possible to find solutions in good time. I have said it here more often, but can only repeat it again and again: The most absurd debate was that around the border fence: ‘Türl with side parts’. You know, that didn't lead to a solution. We then had the discussion about the upper limit, where it was first said: We leave the legal one aside and check whether this is the right one! All of this symbolic policy and all these absurd debates cause the population to be rightly uncertain, because it does not know what it is about, when it very often has to hear different terms and different statements from many areas and also from the Federal Government, and one obviously does not always agree. I believe that this should move us to have an objective and constructive debate so that we can also come to the solutions that we urgently need. Mr. Bundeskanzler, maybe one thing is the same before: I think it would be very helpful – and I believe that you are not alone responsible, but it is also your responsibility as the head of this federal government – if the entire federal government were to speak with one voice. I do not think that it will bring about something if, as is the case at present, about four ministers speak in a minute's time or a day's time and make different proposals, namely from all sides. I don't think this will help the debate. I think it would be much more helpful if the entire Federal Government once agreed internally on what it wants to do and where it wants to go, and then present these proposals and try together at European level to implement them accordingly. This would help the whole debate, and this would also help to implement the solutions we want. You mentioned a few things that I think are important and which we should at least address. For example, the question should be referred to: How can we speed up asylum procedures? We NEOS have already proposed a long time ago that we should open our own procedures to those who are only entitled to subsidiary protection. You know, as I do, that many of those who come from Syria are primarily entitled to subsidiary protection. If we could open up our own procedures for these people, we would be able to relieve the asylum authorities on a massive scale and drive asylum procedures much more. I also think that the return agreements are a very important point. We have also made proposals from the NEOS, namely that if they do not have a right of residence in Austria or in Europe, we will no longer make the funds available in the field of development cooperation the same as before, that we will make it clear to them that we will cut these funds massively, because there is no acceptance that there are countries that do not withdraw their nationals, although they do not have a right of protection in Europe. I believe that we must act very quickly, of course, at European level, because Austria alone will not be able to do so. What you have also mentioned, Mr Bundeskanzler, is integration from the first day onwards. I think this is absolutely right, because the more time we lose, the more problems we will have afterwards. In other words, we have to start German courses from the first day; these are currently only made by volunteers in many areas. We need to see that asylum seekers have a much faster opportunity to integrate into the labour market, because the longer we wait, the more problematic the situation will be. Mr Bundeskanzler, yesterday I received a question from the Minister of the Interior on the question of the emergency regulation, which is to come now. We NEOS have questioned many things on 17 pages, such as what the concrete figures are, how many asylum procedures have been carried out, how many have been decided positively, and so on, and the Minister of the Interior has essentially answered us on four sides that he does not feel responsible. Now I may understand what he meant, namely that he is not alone in charge of this emergency regulation, but I do believe that he is already primarily responsible for asylum issues. It irritates me a little that we have not received any answers, so we will now also send this request to you, because as the head of the government you are obviously more responsible for it. I am excited if we will then get numbers from you, because I think it would be important for it to be a common occurrence in this context too. It is also important that proposals on the table should be discussed in a calm manner. The Foreign Minister has proposed things where I have to say that in some I am absolutely not of his opinion. I think it is wrong to put in detention camps, but I think we need to discuss more about resettlement programmes. Quite honestly, I think it is important that we discuss this, but we have to do something about it. There is no need to wonder that if Austria has not managed to make more progress in the field of resettlement programmes in the last two years, then only 1,900 people from Syria will make their way through resettlement programmes to Europe or, in this case, to Austria. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Finally, Madam President: I believe it is important that we not only exchange beautiful words here, but also follow concrete actions. And it is also important that we continue this debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7280	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7301	Madam President. High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor, I think you're making a big mistake. They make a big mistake if you simply do not answer the question you have been asked in your first speeches here in Parliament. The question was, how do you now keep up with this ceiling, because the problem has developed so to speak. [[Call:... not the point]] You could have said here today: Yes, I'm at the upper limit, in this kind or this! – We would have expected it from you. But what did you do? – They simply turned down all those who are concerned about our refugee policy as if they were in a series with those who inflame refugee homes or with alien enemies. I don't think it's worth someone to be put into such a context if he's just worried about how you're keeping it with the refugee upper limit or generally with the refugees. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The reason you didn't say anything about it today is from my point of view that you don't tell us the truth, because the truth is: Refugee aid is not at all about helping all these persecuted people. That's not the point! If you were to help the persecuted and ill-treated people of this world, then you would not leave 80 percent of young men in our country, but then you would try to help women and children – those are the most affected groups who suffer most in war situations or other persecution situations – then would They are strong enough to help women and children and not allow 80 percent of young men here. [[Abg. Schimanek: He's right!]] The point that you are doing is – and you should show a bit of honesty – that in the European Union you have decided to bring 17 million people to Europe. Mr Avramopoulos – there has been a Commissioner for Migration since 2010 – together with the European Union, together with the Commission, has decided that 17 million people will be left to Europe in the coming years. That's the idea behind it. And that's not about help, because you know when someone comes, not at all, if the help needs. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is the cheap labour force!]] This could theoretically be a Pakistani who has a hairdressing shop in Pakistan, which just comes up sometime: I'm going to Austria now! – He's coming across the border now, and you don't know anything about this person. You will only find out a year later when the asylum procedure is completed, and then you won't bring it home anymore because Pakistan won't take anyone back. This is the problem we are talking about, but you have not lost a single word today – not a single word, Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He looks into heaven!]] What you want is not to talk about it. They really want to turn off the discourse. If the socialists don't mind, they get into the trick box, and then suddenly it's not about the argument that was put forward here today and is also striking, no, then it's about the sound. The sound is the problem! I don't know how you like my tone, I don't know if you're happy with what I'm saying here. It might be that you would like a different tone on this question, namely silence. It may be. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] But we are certainly not going to be prescribed on how to conduct the discourse. What we expect from you are clear statements on the problems. And if you blame us – you reject it to the whole Parliament, not just the opposition – that there are no proposals, I must say: I think there are so many proposals on the table that we should talk about it. I would like to mention a few suggestions: for example, that we are finally beginning to bring back refugees who have lost nothing with us. Minister of Defense Doskozil, whom you mentioned today, has already suggested months ago that you do this with military machines. Have you brought back a single one with military machines? - No! Or one could build so-called waiting centres in North Africa, where all those who may not take back Pakistan, Algeria, are simply accommodated once and give them the appropriate support. You could help people on the spot, not in Austria. Now, explain to me why someone in Austria needs to help by ten times the cost of doing the same in Jordan or other countries. I haven't heard from you for that. You always say you want to suggest. This is a good proposal: Let us help people on the spot, there it is cheaper, there they are among themselves, there they speak the same language and also have no problems religiously. But no, you want them here in Austria! The reason you want this is that the European Union has decided to bring 17 million workers to Europe, and of course 80 percent of young men are much better for you than the actually persecuted women and children. That's the background!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7392	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7413	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the screens! A sensitive topic, I care to say, is apparently always very difficult to discuss here. But I hope, at least, that we have consensus that the rawe of language is following actions, and that is exactly the point behind which apparently not all are found. I do not want to thank this Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor. On the first occasion, he said that in this area – and you can now crush it as you would like – he is at this decision that was taken at the time at the asylum summit. I'm sorry, but the And we do not succeed and succeed in not mixing the various legal systems here – the one because they may not know how to be so, the other with certainty with full intention, because it is so beautiful to insure people in our home country. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The Federal Chancellor!]] I believe that together we have the obligation to convey security to people and to take the right measures, but on the other hand to take all the measures that are taken to ensure that those who stay with us because they have received the status – here the spirits often separate in all legal disciplines already in formulation – that integration works. I'm sorry, but the That's so simple. But, in reality, we are called for together – we here, the state as a whole, the European Union, but also the international community of states – to calm down those countries in which there is a crisis. Then the flow of refugees does not arise at all. I am going to express on every occasion that every single crime is too much for me, but to constantly suggest that it is more non-Austrian that makes this problem happen is simply wrong. If you do that, you're supposed to do something with it. I think we have the common task and the joint commitment to clearly signal those people: Yes, you have a right to the Convention – or you have none. I'm sorry, but the And apart from the decisions of the Federal Government, I see no constructive cooperation on the subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] There you can make calls, as much as you want! It's not right when we keep talking about numbers that don't vote. That's clear. We don't all have the time for us to figure something out here now. The Federal Chancellor has rightly said that we can read them all, they are published daily. But I believe that the necessary consequence must be to integrate those who need our help in such a way that they themselves and society in that country have no problem. And in the case of all those who have no right, we must take care in good time to implement the rejection or return quite simply. I'm sorry, but the I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister of Defence, because it is not a matter of course that he, with the Minister of the Interior, or earlier with the Minister of the Interior, tries to ensure that these departments carry out the necessary tasks together with their resources. On every occasion we have taken action – increasing planning posts, legislative adaptations – you were against it and did not agree. You have not even voted in favour of the increase in the plots! I do not want to thank all the police, soldiers and all the NGOs for what they do for this state and for the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you take this issue seriously, we try together to bring this question to a solution human, humane and in the interests of the general state!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7475	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7496	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! In May of this year, asylum applications decreased by 40 percent. But this is not the turnaround, because when we look at the figures from January to May, we note that about 8 percent more people have sought asylum compared to the previous year. It shows, however, that the measures adopted by the Austrian Federal Government are taking place. The stop on the Balkan route was necessary because there was no solution in Europe as a whole. He made sure that Austria and Germany were spared from a new attack. [[Abg. Kickl: First they invite them all, then they stop!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these solutions were chosen: a stop on the Balkan route, now a stop on the route from Italy to Austria and Germany. This is thanks to the citizens, they see it on the border, and I would therefore like to warmly welcome a group of the senior government of the Oberpulendorf district. Please be welcome! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is in crisis. [[Abg. Kickl: Crisis!]] Two points concern Europe in particular: One is the financing, the euro, the other the numbers of refugees. If Europe does not come to a common language, it is in danger. It is therefore important that we all work together, we must work together, and none of us will, even if a party in this House so often tries to be able to solve this problem alone. It is because 60 million people are fleeing, that now more and more people are coming from Africa – the numbers from Syria and Iraq are falling at the same time – and that there is a population explosion in these countries. It will be necessary for us to learn to deal with it. The implementation of the concept of the former Minister of the Interior – Safe Lives – which she has already presented in 2014 in the European Commission, namely by setting up the UNHCR refugee camps at the external border and deciding who has a right to asylum in Europe and who does not, is a command of the hour. We cannot get rid of this concept, otherwise countries in Europe will be overwhelmed, there will be uncertainties, and people will feel that we cannot solve the problem alone. We must give them this control and security that Europe as a whole is facing this problem and that we are all working together in solidarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, we need your support when you go to your first European Council – and you can do that sincerely – in order to demand solidarity from all European states, for Austria has fulfilled its obligations. Austria has fulfilled its responsibility, the Austrian Federal Government has given 1.5 percent as the number that is feasible to us, which we can accept from asylum seekers. If other countries in Europe follow this approach, it will not be a problem for Europe. All of this will only work if Europe's external borders are secured and while ensuring that it ceases to be possible to implement such regulations, such as those currently in force, namely Dublin regulations, not Hungary and Greece. That's where the pressure has to come! I am grateful that the European Commission sees this as it, but the European Court of Justice has not yet seen it. We need a change at European level so that it is natural for Schengen countries that they are also safe states for asylum seekers and that, therefore, all Schengen countries can be required to take up asylum seekers as much as all other countries. Mr Bundeskanzler, we will progress together, for the security of our country, for the security of Europe and for the future of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7561	Mr Deputy Dr. Rosenkranz arrived Next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7585	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr Bundeskanzler, we have just heard from my previous speaker that a party alone will not succeed, even if she would like to, but that everyone has to work together. One thing I certainly know: Two parties together have so far failed, namely SPÖ and ÖVP. They haven't made it yet! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the quote has fallen from the Banana Republic, you have to ask yourself who has made Austria the banana republic in the past years. It was this government, it was this coalition! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Austria is not a banana republic!]] We have also heard that since the election in this country, 2.2 million people have been insulted as right-wing extremities, as neo-Nazis, as idiots. That's inconceivable, that's inconceivable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And it testifies to the arrogance and haughtiness that some political boxes in this country still have toward the people. It's just unbearable! As a small example, I can quote here a supporter of the Greens, who, although independent of themselves, is still with them: It is the entrepreneur Gexi Tostmann who says that all Austrians actually have to take an examination of whether they are even ready for election. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] That's exactly this arrogance, this pride I'm talking about. It's unheard of! Read in the “Kurier”, Mrs Glawischnig, read it! Close You don't see the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Check out the postings on your Facebook page!]] Also, do not close your eyes to what the party youth not only employs with the flag in Austria, but what the green party youth of your sister party in Germany does with it. Go to the Zugspitze or elsewhere and talk to your colleagues, friends, comrades in Germany about what you're doing! The Federal Chancellor has still meant that you might sit at least at home in front of the TV screen with a red and white-red scarf. What you mean by what you can do with our flag, your party youth with the Gackerl has said quite clearly and clearly, Mrs Glawischnig! – Here, too, a little memory of the story. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And since I'm with you right now, Mrs Korun, first of all, has changed over a demonstration in an audience. [[Abg. Strache: This is the villain state!]] You don't have to be a political opinion, only one thing I can tell you: You, dear left in the whole, you certainly do not have the monopoly for demonstrations, for rallys and for violent outpourings in this country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] You certainly do not have that, even in the Burgtheater, where you have already had such an action! [[Abg. Strache: There is no leftist monopoly of violence!]] If you're already talking about violence: Welcome to the next academic ball! There your friends will be able to deal with violence again and with the blessing of Mr. Ollinger – who is just a little up there in the back there – accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] No, you're not the monopolists! The Federal Chancellor has addressed reality. What about reality? – I am pleased that Mrs. State Secretary Duzdar is here today, which has meant that integration should start already in the asylum process, because asylum procedures often take several years. Statistics clearly speak a different sign, we are currently in just over six months, and the Federal Chancellor has said that the reduction in the time of asylum is extremely important. Why has this government just recently decided by a majority in Parliament that asylum procedures can be extended? That's all white cock, what's being spoken and argued here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to reality, in addition to the call for a look at reality, there is something else that I would call for, namely human dignity and respect, especially for Austrians, because there is a lack of it lately. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I give you examples of what happens through your false immigration policy and the wrong asylum policy. If one sibling is not taken from one day to another in Lower Austria in a kindergarten, because it says: I'm sorry, you've been promised the place, but we've had to free up the place for asylum seekers' children now!, then the parents don't understand that. Or: When in a school in Vienna the matura preparation hours with the argument: We need this money for Arab dolmens!, be shortened, then the parents do not understand this argument. That is why we are actually calling for solutions and not just the speech bubbles in which you are now just continuing!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7731	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7762	Mr Rosenkranz, I recommend that you keep your websites clean, namely the Facebook pages of the FPÖ and your party observer, where there are threats of murder against the Federal Chancellor! This is a polarization that you have brought about and that drives our Republic to the brink of the abyss, that we are today in a situation in which people threaten openly with murder. That's unbearable! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You turn to the speaker's desk here, but you don't want to lose a word about it. You do with the fear of people politics, polarize, want to win elections and don't see that you drive people apart and raise against each other, and you don't see where you bring this country with this policy! [[Abg. Strache: You're professional enough in it!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We don't want a situation in which people go on each other. We don't want refugee homes to burn like in Germany. Old fields should be a warning and give us all a thought. I am grateful to the mayor of Altenfelden for his reaction. He said that this refugee home is being rebuilt, the aggressors must not get right so that there is no imitator! – He reacted wisely and correctly. I am proud and happy that we have such mayors who find such clear words. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I say at this point: Thank you, Mayor Gattringer, your contribution to cohesion in this country was greater than all that we have heard in Parliament today! In some cases, people are more advanced than our debate here, which shows, among other things, the joy with which problems are washed here, number games are played through. I like to go out and discuss with people. Of course you meet people who ask: If we do, do we create this integration? The challenge is great, that's clear. They say we are a 2 000 population community, we are willing to accommodate 30 people. We do not create 200, we do not create 300, but we create 30 – and we want to do so. I meet retired teachers who say German skills are the key to integration. We can now talk about problems, but that won't do anything, we have to solve them! They sit down in their leisure time – as retired teachers – and practice with the refugee children German because they know: This is the key, the key to integration. You know: We don't want to produce a generation of the unemployed! I'll meet a woman in the Styria. She doesn't take any money, she does it in her spare time: She has a Pakistani tailor and organized to teach other refugee women to sew because they may be able to find their professional career later on. She does it in leisure time, without a cent! I meet teachers who are organizing benefit events in schools, because they say: If we wait until we get the money to be able to work with students, then we wait forever, the time we don't have! There, for example, is the teacher band. I know these are all naïve people for you. – They're not naïve! These are realists who have recognized: Either we create integration now or we will have problems with integration later. They enjoy the problems, I focus on the people who say, we now have to make sure that we have conditions for this to work together. [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I meet people who organize leisure activities with refugees in their free time because they say: It doesn't matter that people are sitting around! - They do this free of charge. I meet people who – free – deal with government routes with refugees who see that they get accommodation. I meet people who stop those gaps that leave politics open. I meet people who don't like the fact that there are problems, but they say: We need to solve the problems! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the key, and we should focus on these people. These are not naïve dreamers – these are realists who know: It is a challenge, and we must make our contribution! I know – in order not to be misunderstanded – that you can't ask anyone to do that, and it doesn't have to become a refugee, but against which I defend myself, is the ridicule that will be made of these people, who, in contrast to many who sit here, have long recognized what it is about, namely, solving problems, and not raising problems! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wenninger.]] In reality, politics is lagging behind in its solutions and concepts. I mean, German is the key to integration – and the schools have no security?- Oh, my God! We're talking about German courses for adults, that's right, there's a lot more to be done, even in schools. I mean, there are temporarily limited resources available, these run out again, then the teachers hang in the air. I meet dedicated teachers, but I also meet teachers who say: We're at the limit, we need help! Politics leaves us in the lurch! That is exactly what we should discuss here, and that is exactly what the issue is. We should talk about how we support these people who want to make it, and not raise the problems here, and enjoy the fact that there are problems. Ladies and gentlemen! It is out of question, integration is a challenge, but the question is not alone: Where are the problems?, but: How do we solve the problems? – That’s the decisive thing, that’s what it’s all about, and that’s our job. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7841	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7862	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Welcome to the Groundhog Day of FPÖ. We know the game, it's the same thing every time. I'm not going to be tired of stressing how the classification works either. In this case, we have a term on the one hand, that is security, on the other hand, we have the number trickery in the field of asylum. The FPÖ can be granted at least one of the following: There is a shortage, and it is only in communication. That is true, since the same basis of figures has not been operated on or the government has found no clear language on these figures, however there is no connection as it is so often constructed once again. Of course you also have to consider: What is the consequence of these numerical tricks, is it even in a context of security? - Of course not. One can, of course, make mistakes in this area, but this does not have an impact on the real security in this country, but at best on the security felt. It is already that damage can be done to reduce confidence in government and politics in itself, so it is important to give security in the assessment of reality. Mr Amon said that it was not true here – I think you have formulated it in this way – that movement trends were not true. This is a far-reaching mistake that has happened. It has been known for years what will happen to us, what will happen to us, like last year. This was known in advance that this will happen, but has not been preventatively responded to, has not happened enough in prevention. Security begins with loadable data. Security begins in definitions, which are actually spoken of, and if there is a problem of distinguishing simple things such as asylum seekers or asylum applications, then that is quite something that can be criticized. If we then go to the area of emergency regulations, which will also come, then it is even more delicate. I am very concerned if it is not defined in advance when these emergency regulations come to light. Then we will have a real problem because then it will be decided at random when such decisions will be adopted. There is another aspect of felt security, and that is responsibility. – Mr Bundeskanzler, I wonder who is responsible for this on the government team sometimes; Mr Scherak has already mentioned it. There are several ministers, in this area. There are ministers in brief, Minister Doskozil, there are also ministers of Sobotka who say things that are complementary, if not contradictory. Most recently, the Minister of Defence in Hungary has talked about repatriation and offered that Austria's soldiers can help out on the border. Foreign Minister Kurz has reflected on Australia and the islands in stock and has considered what cannot be done here in Europe. In total, this does not sound like a serious plan, or it may even sound like a plan to be taken seriously, even though it is somehow just out of the way. These are not solutions, these are symptom fights with impenetrable ideas, and thus it is not much more than domestic marketing and not a holistic approach to problem solving, which might also go to the root of this problem. On the other hand, specific problems such as external supplies are not solved. We have deficits in the field of return certificates, lack of cooperation, long procedural periods. We are issuing notices for foreign transfers that cannot be executed because they simply lack the funds. One indication that there may be dissatisfactions and shortcomings in the security field is the fact that the former Minister of the Interior, Mikl- Leitner, wanted to carry out 50,000 extra-terrestrials by 2019. I assume that this also applies to their successors. This will present us with enormous challenges that have not been considered at all. ==References====External links== February announced that refugees with military transport machines of type C-130 Hercules should be deported within the month. In July these are actually to take place. However, this variant is expensive, it is unnecessary and should also be located in the wrong resort. The opinion has also shown that this machine can be postponed to a maximum of 14 male persons, the rest is, as it were, accompanying staff. That won't work. There is no plan for how this will work until 2019. The Ministry of the Interior is really obliged to draw up a plan for this. General: We must be clear that in the long term only a European approach will be able to restore this sense of security and cannot help nationalist egoisms, as the events in Syria, Mali and Libya also have an impact on the security feeling in this country. A fence or – I am about to conclude – a door with side parts, reflecting on any islands, these are nothing but desperate files and a symbol of the interplay of state and European failure on this issue. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7923	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e7945	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech today, Federal Chancellor Kern said: We have to face the realities. – You can support that, I think. The question, however, is: What realities? If you look at the last few weeks and days a little bit and let this revision happen, you can conclude that the statements of the Chancellor and the government partner ÖVP diverge and very uncertain the population. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say that you are basically not particularly interested in the discussions on numbers, then I must say that is already a very peculiar understanding of the office you have here. How do you want to work, how do you want to find solutions, how do you want to solve the problem if you don't care more or less? I can't understand that! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] You also asked today: What kind of picture do we create? – This is a good and legitimate question, but unfortunately you have remained guilty of the answer. They have also remained guilty of the answer to how many of the people who come to us, because now, in fact, refugees are, how many are actually persecuted and how many economic refugees are. But I think we won't get a satisfactory answer from you if you give only half of the existing numbers. 11,000 are spoken of, 20,000 or 22,000 are. - How is someone supposed to know? I would like to say to the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP that your new Minister of the Interior is committed and has also expressed his support for the need to implement the regulation that asylum seekers should be rejected directly at the border. He meant that's what's achieved. His spokesperson then goes out and says: No, no, that was not meant, only in the working world is the measure full. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you are really contributing to the uncertainty of the population, and that is not serious! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] I should also like to refer to the comments made by my colleague, Mr Schieder, who said that there was an escalation in the language, the FPÖ in Hetze et cetera, et cetera. I can remind you of this or ask the question: In the presidential election campaign, who has put a "crumble song" on the Internet and dedicated it to the candidate Hofer? – Was that perhaps the colleague of our colleague Hundstorfer? Mr. Schieder, it would also be interesting to know that, because you can't pour oil into the fire and then arrive with the fire brigade and say: Yeah, I'm out there now! I mean, that's not how it is! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] From the new style, from the New Deal has not been much left. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said in your speech that you want to do everything else, you want to do everything better, you want to involve everyone. – What does it look like now? Was there already an asylum summit with all parties, with the opposition parties, with the proposals of the opposition parties? Is there something like that? Is such a thing planned or not? There have been a number of proposals – our clubman has already mentioned them – as regards waiting centres in North Africa, return visits, support for local people. This would mean a cost reduction for us if we were on the spot and not here in Austria. These opposition proposals are on the table, and I am sure that not only we have proposals, but also the other constructive opposition parties who are working for the Austrians. Unfortunately, in this House there are only two, namely the Stronach team and the Freedom Party, you have to say this quite clearly here. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Stop these uncertainties! Stop calling false numbers! The people have a right to be informed of you correctly, to be informed about right numbers. Finally, your colleague, Mr Doskozil, has also said that we have to deal with numbers more carefully, otherwise we are making fun of the people. Take this quote with you, write it behind your ears and act after it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8032	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8053	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the current hour “Security instead of asylum-talking tricks, Mr. Bundeskanzler!”, to confuse the number of asylum applications quite factually spoke, Mr. Bundeskanzler: This Federal Government itself has set an asylum limit of 37 500 asylum applications. - Is that true? Recently, there was a great confusion about the number of asylum applications. The Federal Chancellor suddenly spoke only more of 11 000 requests, although at that time there were 22,000 applications. This number of 11 000 requests, ladies and gentlemen, is, according to the German Chancellor, if one withdraws the requests for family allowances and those made by Dublin procedures in which another State is responsible. – A great calculation, Federal Chancellor! Nor does this calculation include the presentation by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that most Dublin cases do land in Austria, because other countries do not take asylum seekers back. The Minister of Defence, ladies and gentlemen, then expressed this in a newspaper and put it to the point: The government – addressed by Mr Schenk – would be better advised to publish all the figures. We have to deal with the figures more carefully, otherwise this federal government is making fun of the population! – Not by anyone from the opposition or anyone else, but by the Minister of Defence. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that refugee policy is not an easy task is undoubtedly clear that this EU, but also this German government, has completely failed in refugee policy, is also out of question! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8087	The next item is Mrs Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8108	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Numbering tricks to or from, Numbering trickery yes or no: If the laws were to be respected, we would not need all of this, and that would be a great relief for the population. We didn't need to talk about correct or incorrect figures. We don't need any ceilings. We wouldn't talk about asylum pleite. We didn't need to talk about refugee crisis, because all that I have listed here is actually just the effect. The causes were actually only discussed marginally today. That Austria is not a country where milk and honey flow, that we are not a country of immigration, and that we cannot accommodate all people here, I believe, that is clear and clear to all of us, but it is also clear that we Austrians alone cannot solve this global problem through any measures. If you look at infinitely many studies that deal precisely with these issues, then it turns out that a political hack in this matter is absolutely not in demand. What people want is peace, peace, political cooperation and a secure life. What they don't want or where their fears lie – and that's actually only the fourth, fifth place – what they really fear and why they fear, that's the concern about their workplace and their health. Mr Strache has said in his remarks, well, now the immigrants from Africa are coming, we have to discuss this and we have not been able to predict it. I can give him a brief speech by Gaddafi on 30. April 2011, when Gaddafi said clearly and clearly: “And now hear, you people of NATO! You are bombarding the wall now,” he said, “that African migration to Europe is halting.” He continued to explain how this migration will look. And that's exactly what happened. He also further defined NATO. I believe that there is also a point of reference that we should not ignore. He said NATO was a U.S.-led attack alliance, leading to international wars of raw materials and thus producing unrest in the world. That is one of the reasons why it comes to this migration, to this wave of refugees, no matter what. We bombard – we, all of us, including the Western states, are involved – people's home. They'll come to us. Here they are “storageed, ” it is a kind of storage that we operate, and that makes me very worried. This is something that extremely promotes the potential for aggression among people. A second cause, which one must not ignore and which is always only to be found in alternative journals, is our economy. We have still not been able to get through to a circular economy. We exploit the richest continent of land and other treasures, and that is Africa. We enrich ourselves and we do not deal with it carefully. The third reason is the invitation policy of Mrs Merkel, the so-called most powerful woman in the world. I think that will probably be possible to regulate Germany itself. Mr Schäuble's statements with his argument about the incest and the decomposition are not exactly beneficial either. I got a new book a few days ago, from Michael Lüders. It means: “He who sows the wind.” It deals precisely with the effects of the European economy in the Orient. He is also very geopolitically decorated, he says that he considers a soon-to-be solution to the refugee issue or to the wars in the Middle East to be absolutely excluded. This development is no longer to be controlled. I think – in order to say a positive approach as a conclusion – that we should actually try to promote a new strategic balance in this world first. Then we would also have to carry out a little more geopolitics and first and foremost abandon our pink glasses in relation to the USA. Secondly, sanctions against Russia should no longer be maintained, but removed. Then the following generations can no longer pass this sentence on to us: "Tore fall and you shout, bombs fall, and you keep silent." – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8168	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[10:44:55]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8190	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:44:57]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8464	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure before the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 1731/A(E) tabled at the same time by Dr Strolz, colleagues on ‘new style through transparent, professional and objective positioning with regard to the election of the ORF Director-General and the appointment of ministers and constitutional judges’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8487	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Mr Scherak, Member of the European Parliament, has requested that the Justice Committee report on the request 498/A of Member Dr Scherak, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Civil Code, be limited to 28 years. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8509	It is proposed that the debate on points 5 to 7, 9 and 10 as well as 13 and 14 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8533	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as NEOS and STRONACH per 44 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 22 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. [[Abg. Lopatka speaks to Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, we are in a voting process. [[Abg. Arbitrators: (in the direction of Abg. Lopatka) Yes, what is it?- Oh, my God!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. This gives the required two-thirds majority. [[10:47:44]] 1. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (1122 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz (1153 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8583	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I welcome Mr Vice-Chancellor. There was no oral reporting. As First of all, Mr Deputies, Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8613	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Today a novel of the Studienförderungsgesetz stands for debate. We last innovation this law, which dates back to 1992, in 2014. We did it at the time – and do it today – on the basis of valid data that we have determined when it came to asking whether our study aid law meets the current requirements. To this end, we have commissioned the Institute for Higher Studies to evaluate it, with the willingness to undergo completely fundamental innovations if this need is to be made. To our pleasant surprise at the time, we found that the Studienförderungsgesetz is quite suitable and meets its needs appropriately. But there is, of course, a need for improvement here and there, something like this is always the case. We have also debated this evaluation at the University Conference, in which the representatives of the universities, but also the representatives of the students, are sitting. There is a working group there “Social Security Students”. Based on these processes, we have already made a novelle in 2014 and are now making one again. The debates showed that although the funding of studies is correct and sound, it has certain weaknesses. The weaknesses identified at the time were mainly weaknesses in students with children and older students. This time we focus on the increased funding needs for older students. So we increase the maximum scholarships for students over 27 years. We now allow older scholarship recipients, even if they do not live abroad, to enjoy the maximum amount regardless of their residence. We facilitate the calculation when a student is considered to be an external student. For this purpose, the removal of the place of residence and study, which has so far been calculated by a very complicated regulation with the municipalities. So we debureaucratise in this area, as I have to say at all, that the funding of studies comes with an extremely slim bureaucracy. This has to be stressed once again. She's even been home to prices for this. We also ensure that volunteering is recognised within the meaning of the Voluntary Law, so that voluntary services are included in the maximum period of relationship. So we're making a lot of improvements. We also increase legal certainty for students of degree scholarships. This is a bundle of good, right measures that will cost approximately € 5.5 million in addition. The total volume with which we promote students in Austria is around €200 million annually. That means we're making a good law even better for ourselves. I am pleased that there is broad support for this or that there is a broad agreement. Of course, there are always additional wishes. That's clear. We need to focus on the possibilities we have. I think it's a good thing within the framework of these possibilities. And I'm glad she gets broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8664	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8686	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Col. Dägenle has already described it in detail: We can now decide on some measures to improve the funding of studies. These are good and important and right steps. You've already shown it. It is about better supporting so-called older students, so students over 27. These are – now only to clarify – not bubbling students, but it is true that more and more people do not start their studies immediately after Matura, but later. It is about that we can help accordingly. This also applies to people who do not live in the study area. We also recognise voluntary social engagement in accounting. These are good and right steps. Studienförderung is an essential tool that helps to improve social integration at universities. We note developments that would make it necessary to take steps beyond the small, right and important ones we are taking today, because the development we have seen in recent years is that the proportion of students who are entitled to study funding is getting lower and that the value of study funding through inflation is decreasing. That is to say, it is urgently necessary to take action and to take measures that will lead to a higher level of entitlement, which is also needed in support, and that support has the corresponding value again. This means that in the coming months, hopefully, years, we will have to start and start a valorisation of the study aid. The Minister has also already put signals in this direction that he considered such a development to be necessary. We discussed the report on the social situation of students in the Science Committee, where these measures, which we decide to today, have already been discussed, and there, above all, we have found three developments, namely that the proportion of students working in addition to their studies is growing, that in reality the majority of students are already working, to a degree – half of those who work – of more than 16 hours a week, i.e. to an extent that really affects the progress of studies. It was also noted that the cost of living for all, including students, is increasing more and more. The cost of housing in particular is a major problem. As stated earlier, however, the study aid has become increasingly valuable, so that we urgently need a value adjustment here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From our point of view, it is very important to take three steps in the next few years. The first step I have already taken is: We urgently need a valorisation of the study aid so that more students can get study funding again, and that at a corresponding level. We also need to take measures to facilitate the compatibility of studies and occupations, so that the impact on the duration of the studies can be managed and supportive again. And again, we need measures to make student living more manageable. We need to develop new instruments in order to be more supportive. That is, today we are taking small, important, right steps in the right direction. But I would like to stress that we know that bigger steps are necessary, and that we want them to be decided in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8743	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8766	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Although we liberals will agree to the amendment of the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz, because it contains some improvements compared to the status quo, we would have expected far more, because the novelle contains only small improvements which correspond to rather technical adjustments, but which will not result in fundamental changes in student funding. There is, above all, no adjustment to the performance and funding grants. But precisely performance scholarships form a counterweight to the little reliable casting pot principle. It is all the more incomprehensible that there has been no increase in the budget spending for years. At €9.5 million, the amount the Federal Government sends to students who are willing to do so and who are talented each year is really ridiculous. With this novel, one has once again failed to make the long-standing adjustments. We can't understand that. I think, Minister of State, that you can't care about the idea of performance. Anyway: The failure shows that all the outstanding confessions of the Federal Government to the scientific location Austria remain hollow phrases, which do not follow adequate actions. Also our request, the request of the FPÖ, regarding the calculation of earnings has unfortunately not been taken into account in the current amendment to the Studienförderungsgesetz. In view of the strained social situation of many students, which is also reflected in the survey carried out recently by the IHS on the social situation of students in 2015, our demand that income in lecture-free periods and income in times where no aid is granted should not be included in the self-performance would have been an important signal towards improving the strained financial situation of our future academics. You probably did not escape, Mr. Federal Minister, that the situation of students coming from socially weak families has deteriorated considerably due to increased housing costs or home prices, so that more and more of them have to escape in secondary jobs, so that their lives have to be financed, which in turn leads to an extension of study and a later entry into work. I don't think Mr. Vice-Chancellor wants you to. But if you don't want to, then you finally have to adapt the service scholarships. The €9.5 million already mentioned for voluntary and talented students are covered with only 5 percent of total expenses and remain shamefully low. Another topic: While some of the elites have raised the demand and today again to grant support to refugees and eligible beneficiaries for study preparation in the future, particularly poor Austrians, who are socially weak, have to fight for a place at the university, especially since many places are also occupied by foreign students at home universities and are lost by domestic students. If we are already in favour of internationality and world openness, as we all do here, and also promote cross-border mobility, we must also ensure that places of study are provided in sufficient numbers and, above all, financed. It will be the We have been making this demand for a long time, and we have already put in countless applications for it, but unfortunately they have been shubbled over and over again. The demand of the new unico leadership for a study site management with new admission procedures is high school political, so we also find a false signal, because new access barriers mean a deterioration and a hallucination of free university access, however, which is indispensable from our point of view. My appeal therefore goes to the Federal Government, specifically to you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner, finally to negotiate with the European Union on compensation for the costs incurred by students from the EU in Austria, at least € 650 million a year. The argument that we hear over and over again does not go legal is empty, because nothing has been messed up in stone; this is what we see these days at the referendum on Britain's stay in the European Union. Where a will is, is also a way: Legal framework conditions can of course also be changed – self-confidence provided. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you will live up to your nickname, go – ride! – to Brussels and get our money back! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8828	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8849	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers on the gallery and in front of various devices! Today, we are discussing the funding of studies, which is actually intended to be balanced, which is intended to enable all those wishing to study. It should not depend on whether someone comes from a wealthy parent house or not. This funding will now be changed in a very small area, but we welcome these changes and we will also decide on them. However, the fundamental question must already be asked whether this scholarship system is still up-to-date. In addition to this legislative amendment, we have also discussed the report on the social situation of students – presented by IHS employees – and a few figures are already alarming. This is not a new, but a progressive, sustainable development that we have been observing for many years. Even in the student social surveys 2009 and 2011 and in the now discussed student social survey 2015 one sees that the picture has remained the same. I would like to mention a few figures to illustrate what the social situation of students actually looks like. 50 percent of all students report financial difficulties. 25 percent say they are permanently affected by very large financial difficulties. Two thirds of all students have to work to finance their studies; the median – Mrs. Kuntzl has already mentioned it – is 16 hours. This is quite a scale when we remember that politics always requires students to study as quickly as possible and not to bend, and that always complains that the study takes too long. Now it turns out, however, that a faster completion of the study is not possible, but that many students have to work in order to do so at all. to be able to study in order to be able to afford their studies. This development is not good, because this obviously means that the study period is extended. If you call another number related to the promotion of studies: Classic study aid, i.e. what was actually intended to finance and enable the study, only accounts for more than 12 percent of all students. Only more than 12 percent! Then we have to ask the question whether the scholarship system, as we have set it up, still fulfils its purpose of enabling students to study. Another aspect of this report – it has already been mentioned – is that the number of students who do not start studying directly after school, after Matura, in other words at the beginning of 20, is getting smaller and the number of those students who only begin to study later in life. Now, in principle, this is a good development in the sense of lifelong learning – which will also strengthen, employment biographies become more fragile, there will be stages in which people will go back to study – but this also means, of course, that we have to look at whether this scholarship system is correct. This novel now contains some changes that affect students over 27, which means that they address exactly this group. However, this is just a drop on the hot stone. In the Austrian scholarship system, we still treat all students as if they were studying children and not adults. The system builds on maintenance, on family allowance up to 24 and then scholarship, and I think it would be time to consider, in addition to the necessary increase in the donation of the overall pot, whether this structure of scholarships is actually still modern. But I would now like to come to another point, which has also been mentioned. We have also discussed a request from me in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. In Austria, the system is such that international students wishing to start their studies but are required to have compulsory exams, i.e. either German or any other supplemental subjects, enter the so-called pre-graduate course. Especially affected, that is, the main group, are those entitled to asylum and eligible for protection. There is a problem, however, because if these people are in this pre-graduate course to prepare for their studies, they do not have a right to minimum security, that is, they do not get any money from the state, but they do not have a right to study aid, that is, they simply fall through the social network. I believe that this is not a good way of doing this, because we all want, of course, to be able to continue training and qualifying for refugees and eligible persons, to get a good start on the labour market, to integrate. There is of course a study a particularly good measure, but we should also support people. We have proposed a very concrete legislative change in the Committee. The request was postponed, on the grounds that the government parties only want to consider whether such support is at all possible. However, as I quote Parliament's correspondence, Federal Minister Mitterlehner has said a positive word about what I am looking forward to: ‘Federal Minister Reinhold Mitterlehner expressed much sympathy for the concern as did the Members Katharina Kucharovich(S) and Claudia Gamon (N).’ – There is therefore an agreement between Greens, NEOS, SPÖ and ÖVP. Our specific legislative proposal has not been adopted, but I still consider it important to put a sign and show that something should actually happen in this area. I would therefore also like to ask you, Minister Mitterlehner, and the government, hopefully, in the form of a resolution from Parliament, to do something in this area. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So you see, this is not a very concrete legislative proposal, but it leaves more opportunities to find a solution, and I would be very pleased if we could jointly receive the approval of at least these four parties in order to enable this group to study. That would, I believe, be a very good and important contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e8940	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9008	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9029	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens at the visitor gallery! The aim of the study aid should be to enable students coming from remote social classes to study, as Mrs Maurer said correctly. This novelle has expanded the system in the direction that we now take into account atypical CVs, namely if you do not go directly to the university after Matura. This is extremely important, and I therefore think this novelle is also very good. However, we should take this opportunity to see in principle whether this law and our study promotion system can fulfil the original purpose at all. The student social survey – and this is really our most important source in this area; at this point the study authors should also be praised because they are doing really good work – has highlighted a trend in particular, namely that the reference rate continues to decline: In the summer semester of 2009, it was 18 percent of students, and in the summer semester of 2015 only 12 percent. Now the study aid should also be socially sound, they say; that would be the wish. But does it still fulfil these conditions at all? – 35 percent of students whose parents are farmers, as well as 25 percent of students whose parents are workers, receive study grants. One can now say that this is already being fulfilled in some way, but the problem is that we still do not manage to guarantee a real social mix at the universities. If the system we are still in is not capable of fulfilling this actual purpose and achieving this actual goal, then we must slowly start to question whether it is the right system and whether it is the right logic. Studying is still an elite activity. Unfortunately, we cannot guarantee that they are the spiritual elites of this country, but they are probably the monetary elites. The probability of starting higher education is 2.6-fold higher for children from higher education than for those from far-reaching shifts. The OECD always confirms to us that we are very conservative on the road. Of course, this is less a problem for the FHs, and they have surprisingly - all of them know this anyway - tuition fees. So what is our study aid? – It is a minority programme, but not in the sense that it encourages minorities to go to university, but those they would need to go to college, they do not take advantage of it, and it does not come to those whom they might need. It is therefore time to think fundamentally about this system, since I am entirely with Mrs Maurer. However, I would have quite different ideas on how to achieve this. I believe that we must finally transfer this last remnant from the old world order into university autonomy and make a certain part of this money available to the university so that they can also award scholarships themselves, as Rector Hankpi-Egger has already begun at the WU. She awards 15 scholarships for seven semesters. That's not much, but she starts with it because she believes that a social mix at her university is important. That's a goal for her, and I think it's good that she goes out into the world for it and recruits third-party funds so she can finance it. I believe that such a reform is extremely important and also needs to go hand in hand with the introduction of capacity-oriented funding. Free access to higher education is not free if we do not manage to have the best conditions for all students to study at the university, and that children from far-off levels can also go to the university. One simply has to say that in times of the knowledge society, in which we really are in a global competition for the best minds and for the best ideas, we can no longer afford to only send children of rich academic parents to the universities, which then sit in the audiences on the ground. I think it's time we finally created elite union for everyone in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9080	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9102	Madam President. Minister! Dear High House! Today, if we adopt this new Studienförderungsgesetz unanimously, this has two positive effects: First of all, I think it is very positive to keep finding issues that we decide unanimously, and, of course, it is also positive for those concerned – primarily young people over 27 years of age – because they are of course much more opportunities. have to continue to study by means of a study. This group of over 27-year-olds is usually burdened with special difficulties, especially when it comes to cost of living. This is also a very important point in our view, because according to the Vienna University of Economics, only 8 per cent of students are currently from a disadvantaged social layer, and that should give us some thought. I think this decision is a step in the right direction, because we are giving a boost that we can have a little more courage here, because the state's support is now here. It is about 44 000 students who benefit from this Studienförderungsgesetz. It is of course true that there are additional costs, which are charged at just under €6 million. I hope that we will also really get there that there will be no additional burden on the budget. It will try to use the administrative equipment and thus save almost 6 million. That's all very good, that's what we're doing, of course. However, I would like to give a few more impulses. It's a first step, but it definitely has to follow. From our point of view, we can only achieve the objectives of this legislative change if the private sector is more involved in the training of our students. This means close cooperation between businesses and students so that more scholarships from this field are awarded and student partnerships with future employees are established. This would be a very long-term goal, but this is becoming more and more important internationally. I think we must act in this direction more and more in Austria. The whole thing will only be possible if the existing rigid system is loosened up a little. Of course, we are particularly pleased about the very encouraging statement of our Minister of Economic Affairs and Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner. At the end of May, the headline of an interview with him was: ‘Social partners must change completely’. – Of course, we are very pleased with this. In the field of chamber economics, it could be thought that the Chamber only sees its main task in self-management and self-sufficiency. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have researched a little, and the answer to a parliamentary question also reinforces this impression: For staff expenditure, 54 million are spent, and there is an investment capital of 720 million as well as funds for credit institutions of approximately 230 million. That is to say, in 2014 alone, the total income of the Chamber of Commerce was about EUR 1 billion in Germany and almost EUR 1 billion in writing. Of course, it is clear that there has long been a new world of entrepreneurs, one that no longer needs this old system with these incredible sums that should actually flow into education. Its orientation is international development and the international market, and it is precisely there that will and will be our future. Research, science and new technologies are the key to a better future and must also be it, because only through cooperation between the economy and science will Austria maintain its market value in the world, or perhaps sometime be able to expand it. Only in this way will we be able to create new jobs and, above all, to secure Austria's economic location. We therefore see a very large political task in this area, especially in view of the fact that many young people, the smartest minds, leave the country because they simply have more opportunities internationally. Of course, people know about their market value. That is, a country that is unable to promote the best of a young generation will lose these best through deportation. There must be no such thing as this. So: Let's change these systems before it's too late! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9165	Next, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Mitterlehner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9186	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The specific item on the agenda is in context with the social situation of students, which is also discussed in the Scientific Committee. It has been mentioned that in 2015 we carried out a corresponding survey, which was last carried out in 2011. There is, as has been pointed out, a welcome trend in many areas: For example, there are 54 percent female students, so that from my point of view the best way to really open career opportunities for women and get through the famous glass ceiling in practical life. Secondly, about 21 percent of students come to us from external systems – studying or in the preparation of studies – that is, de facto a development that is quite comparable internationally. The number of students with migration backgrounds has also increased, rising by around 2 500 to a total of 5 000. As far as the social mix which has already been mentioned many times is concerned, it is so that from our point of view it is balanced: There are similar numbers of students from low levels of education and income – the parents of 17 percent have compulsory schooling, vocational schooling or teaching – such as students from the highest level of education, 18 percent have parents with higher education. The remaining 65 percent come from the middle shift, for example, the parents are masters, have Matura or some other school education. In other words, in the context of the overall issue, this is actually a quite acceptable social mix, not an elite system in the sense that someone coming from low levels of income has no possibilities, and it is clear – and this is also related to this issue – that has been addressed by Mrs Maurer – that: There is a need for around 61 percent of students to work to finance their studies. The interesting thing about this is: These students mostly come from lower levels of income and have to spend a greater amount of time in order to finance their studies, which may have a negative impact on the degree course. In this context, the promotion of studies is therefore the crucial system, the study aid. We have a study by the IHS a few years ago as far as this system is concerned – my colleague has mentioned it. It has – surprisingly, many say; from my point of view, it is understandable – that the current system actually covers a lot of needs, and other systems such as the credit system have not been proposed. [[Abg. Maurer: Safe, but too low!]] - Please? [[Abg. Maurer: Safe, but too low, that's why...!]] That is why we have further developed the system on this very basis. In 2014, we increased the possibility of aid in particular for the target group of those in need of care, and thus increased the reliability of the aid, and now, in 2016, focussed above all on the target group of older students. Why? – Because social security, co-insurance and other problems for students are also encountered in the age range from 27 onwards. The novelle is therefore aimed at the elderly’s target group, which has already been addressed several times; these are not students who study for a long time, but also older, active students. There is an old age allowance for students aged 27 and over, improvements also for those who still live with parents, more detailed rules as regards the repayment of study grants, and improvements in the presentation and calculation of leave time. It has not yet been mentioned that we have another good success, namely the recognition of social engagement. The Honorary Office is now practically depicted in the law in this area for the first time and is equated with the presence and civil service for the four-year period. I see this as a very important success, also for the honorary office, which we continue to force in various Sunday speeches. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned: Yes, we also need a general increase in aid. We will discuss this intensively during the next budgetary negotiations with the Minister of Finance. We believe that at €25 million we can reach a corresponding back up. A total of about € 190 million from the budget area for such aid would be an increase of more than 10 percent. It's not that far yet, but the efforts are going in this direction. With regard to the motion for a resolution: We are examining this, and we do not need the support of the proposal, which we have already announced in the Committee. That is why, in my view, this is not necessary or irresistible. But it's your business to be on it. [[Abg. Maurer: Then there is nothing against simply deciding on him!]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you – I assume that, as in the Committee, the decision is taken unanimously here – and I think this is a very, very important improvement for all students in these areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9250	The next speaker is Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9271	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What are we talking about today with this novelle? – It is about systematically taking measures to improve the financial situation of students; systematically, because since 2014 the Studienförderungsgesetz has been updated step by step with a focus on certain groups of persons, such as students with children or students from child-rich families. Today, older students are at the heart of our reflections, that is, students from 27 years of age, and their reality of life. We have dealt with the report on the social situation of students in the Committee, and this has already been mentioned. I would like to draw up two points which, of course, are also relevant in the course of this innovation. On the one hand, this report has shown that the proportion of those who only enter a study at a later date, not immediately after Matura or the presence service, increases. That's nothing bad in my eyes. Who says you have to start studying right after the matura or the presence service? Rather, I believe that the decision will be made much more consciously by the later entry into force. This creates new perspectives, new training paths that you want to start, or the career path already taken is supplemented or even strengthened by a study. In my view, this is also a sign of the permeability of our education system, which is actually a strength of our Austrian education system. But, of course, this also means that there are cuts, for example, because the family allowance is only up to 24. ==References== On the other hand, I would also like to address employment in addition to studying, which was a topic. It has already been mentioned that 61 percent of students work regularly or at least temporarily next to their studies. This is a 2 percent decrease compared to the last recording period. I do not consider this to be bad either, unless it hinders the completion or the success of the study, because a professional activity allows the learner to connect with the practice and, on the other hand, to be sniffed into the later field of work. The compatibility of professional activities with the study was an important issue, which has also been shown in the report, and I therefore see it as true that we are starting at two levels: on the one hand, increasing the offer of vocational studies to meet the reality of life of students, and on the other hand improving the financial situation of students so far – with targeted support, scholarships et cetera – that the focus can really be on studying. To the last – we see this today in the novel with the changes –: There are concrete measures for older students. Aid beneficiaries over 27 years of age who live with parents will receive the highest possible study aid in the future. The recognition of the voluntary social year has already been an important issue; I believe that this is also relevant in order to give the Office the recognition it deserves. The cost subsidies for childcare are now also laid down by law. I am right if you say that further steps are necessary in the current system of funding for studies. However, it must also be clear that this can only take account of the budgetary possibilities. Therefore, the strategy paper strategy on the social dimension announced by Minister Mitterlehner is very welcome – this is prepared for autumn and provides a basis for the increase and spread of the aid – as is the commitment to use additional resources at the next budgetary negotiations to make this possible. So today this is another important step in a good direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9319	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9343	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! I can warmly welcome a group of visitors from the Carinthian trade union youth. I'm glad you're here! Welcome here at the Hohen Haus! [[It was in favour of representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Social blending as an important goal of the study promotion, it has been a topic today several times: that the talents and skills of young people decide what study they choose, and not the size of the parent's wallet. When we talk about equal opportunities in the higher education system, it is about fair access to universities, especially for students from socially disadvantaged families, but it is also about fair framework conditions, about fair structures and support systems during their studies on the way to a successful degree degree. It is all the more important, I believe, that we are increasing the study allowance today, especially for older students, for students who, as it were, want to finish their studies successfully and in the age range of 27, that there will be a single payment of €360 per year, that we will grant the maximum study allowance from 27 years. More than 10,000 young people in Austria will benefit from this 360 € payment alone. An important signal, I think, is also that we want to recognise more fully the social commitment, the honorary office, that this will involve in the assessment of the study aid, in the self-holder scholarship similar to the present service and civil service. However, the report on the social situation of students has also shown how important a valorisation of the scholarship system is: A quarter of the students are affected by poverty, and unexpected expenses often lead to a disaster, to real problems. The cost of the apartment is a huge problem – that has already been said today – for many students even the purchase of new clothes and shoes is a challenge. I think these are all signals that show us that we need to get better, as well as in the field of study and work. It has long been the rule that you work during your studies, also working full-time, in the median 16 hours a week. The fact that this also has an impact on the duration of study is known to all of us. These are all construction sites that we need to address more in the future. That is why I am also pleased to hear from Mr Vice-Chancellor that we will be able to further clarify the area of study aid, the promotion in the future, that the National Strategy on the Social Dimension will, of course, also include the results of the student social survey. I think Mr Kuntzl has already mentioned this: We need further measures on our way to achieving a better social mix at Austria's universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9392	Next item is the report by Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9413	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have heard it today, of many steps there is the talk, and we all know that ways arise through the Go. I believe that this innovation is a real step, is an important step and is also good, because it will help us get closer to our long-term goal of allowing a permeable higher education system with a corresponding social mix. We need to give more people the chance of higher education and training, and with this innovation we do exactly that. It brings targeted improvements to students and has been prepared on the basis of a well-founded evaluation of study promotion by the Institute for Higher Studies, the IHS; My colleague, my colleague, has already mentioned this. A focus is placed on older students over 27 years of age, as this group is faced with major problems and financial difficulties. Mr Kucher mentioned it earlier: More than 27-year-old study aid recipients will receive an annual supplement of €360 in addition to the study grant, and no fewer than 10 000 students in Austria will benefit from it. I also believe that an essential aspect of this innovation is that young people's social commitment should be taken into account. Those times in which incoming students have completed voluntary service will in future be recognized as well as presence and civil service times at the self-holder scholarship. I believe that this is already an essential sign; honor is an important pillar of our society, and there has really been a sign of recognition. I think that's remarkable. The social commitment of students must not be detrimental to a self-holder scholarship. Other key points of the novelle: The legal right to the degree scholarship is defined, we have already heard it today, the cost grants for childcare are laid down by law and the repayment of study grants will be managed more generously in the future. Grosso modo can therefore be said that this novelle is precisely geared to a target group with certain difficulties and will contribute significantly to improving the social situation of older students. John F. Kennedy, former U.S. President, said: “There is only one thing that is more expensive in the long term than education, that is not education.” – In this sense, one can only congratulate the Federal Minister and Vice Chancellor: This is a very good novel, which will contribute to the promotion of Austrian students in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9462	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9483	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! As has already been said, the amendment of the Studienförderungsgesetz brings a number of improvements for students over 27 years of age. Reference to the report on the social situation of students presented in the last Scientific Committee: 61 percent of students pursue a job, which has been mentioned several times, but employment is not equal to employment. The weekly working hours range from an average of 18.8 hours in Bachelor's studies up to 34.1 hours in career-accompanied FH courses. This means that studies and careers are not the exception for students, but rather the rule; 21 percent of students even consider themselves to be first and foremost employed, who by the way study. According to the study, however, 54 percent of the working students also have agreement difficulties. This is partly also due to the courses offered by our universities, which should pay more attention to better compatibility with work and family life. In this novel, students aged 27 and over will now receive an increase in the maximum study allowance by €360, i.e. € 30 per month. At the same time, however, any co-insurance with parents usually fails, but a self-insurance costs 55,40 € per month. However, this falls into a phase of life, in which very many students significantly reduce their professional activity over a certain period of time, or completely stop their work in order to take examinations or to complete diplomas. This is precisely where many students are in financial difficulties, as, in some cases, training grants or, in part, unemployment benefits or other things can be deducted and no degree scholarship can be expected. Finally, I would like to say: This novelle brings a lot of improvements for students in Austria, but in detail it is also in the report on the social situation of students that there is still a lot of potential for improvement that we need to work on in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9522	Next speaker: Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9544	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The social security of our students is on the program, and it is of course very gratifying that we can implement it together. After we have been able to help students from child-rich families with the Novelle 2014, the students are now in the row for over 27 years, and I believe that this is also due to the fact that society is changing and, of course, the student clientele is also changing, which is more and more often secondary schooling. It is precisely these students that we want to help, but not only those over 27 years old, but we have also been able to improve other things, for example for those who live with their parents, or also for the time-limits. This, I believe, is very important for rural students: from these time-limits to data-based calculations. All these changes improve social justice for students. I think we're on the right track, and I'm really glad that all the opposition parties too are going along. Our students deserved this because they are also very diligent. This also shows the numbers, because more than 61 percent of students follow a career in addition to their studies. I think that's really remarkable. It is precisely these students who also have the biggest financial problems in their studies, and that is why it is all the more remarkable. In any case, I would like to highlight a positive approach: The Honorary Office also receives entry into the Studienförderungsgesetz. This is, I think, a very positive approach, because it takes into account precisely these achievements of our young people, who make a voluntary social year or an environmental year. It is a very correct and positive way to take their achievements into account. In this sense, I would like to thank Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Science Mitterlehner once again for being able to implement this for our students, and I am looking forward to further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9583	Next speaker: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9604	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today's novel of the Studienförderungsgesetz – which has often been mentioned – offers improvements for older students and for those who have a voluntary social commitment, and implements the calculations of the time between the parents' home and the place of study. In short: These are important and good steps for students. I think it's great that we can do this today. But – and this has already been done several times – we think that a complete reform of study funding would be necessary. Let's think about it: Why is the reference of the study aid dependent on parental income? Is that still up to date? - I think, no. We have also discussed this several times in the Committee. I'm of the opinion: Let us trust in it and really reform it! Clearly, the level of the aid simply does not correspond to today's realities. The last time it was adapted in 1999, then again in 2008. Conscious of budget scarcity: I think this is about setting priorities. I believe that young people must also have top priority in this area. A few more words about the social situation of students: 61 percent of students work, and many say that they only study more by the way. Living is simply no longer affordable for students. Some student homes demand vouchers, and those who act better or socially are unfortunately in the minority. We know the situation of private rents, a number of landlords demand vouchers and calculate supplements that are actually unfounded. Students also have experience with internships, it is going on and there is no need to work unpaidly. In this context, from my point of view and also from the point of view of the students, there are truly incredible experiences. A word also on the compatibility of University and job: There are too few online offers, too few offers regarding the digital university. I believe that we must definitely improve in this area too. Let us trust that the problems will not only be addressed, but that we will link a package for students, which really supports them! I see some positive signals. We're and we're there.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9648	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9669	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Eight of the ten students I have received in the course of speaking hours will benefit from today's changes to the Studienförderungsgesetz. It can be seen, therefore, that the evaluation of the IHS and those of practical parliamentary activity, but also those of the study. It is true that the measures we are taking today are urgently needed. Especially for students from the federal states who do not have their own university – for example, the Federal State of Vorarlberg, except for the University of Applied Sciences there is no university – the question of the accessibility of the places of study is a very crucial one. Our goal, which was actually mentioned by all the speakers in advance, is to open up the opportunity for all young people to receive training corresponding to their talents. The measures we are taking today are, as our scientific speakers have said, a small but important step in this direction. I believe that there should be new ways too. Several proposals have been made, in particular by the young Members: Maurer, Gamon, Kucharovich. One should consider what is actually necessary – in addition to a valorization that has already been mentioned. Finally, I would like to sum up what we are actually improving with this novel, since the hall was a bit filled and important areas were addressed: We improve the social situation of students over 27 years. We improve the funding conditions for students in the graduation phase. We improve the up-to-date determination of the availability of study sites for the purpose of calculating the maximum study aid. This is a very important step; anyone who knows the problem knows that. We create equality between voluntary service and training with presence and civil service. We improve student study exchange provisions and, last but not least, we significantly reduce the administrative burden by extending the automated data demand by the Study Aid Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, the €6 million costing us this package of measures, I think, are well established. They are a good investment in the future of our youth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9714	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9736	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Novelle of the Studienförderungsgesetz 1992: What is to be achieved with this? – This proposal to amend the Studienförderungsgesetz is intended to provide better social security for older students over 27 years. By establishing a monthly supplement to study aid, this group will be facilitated to set up its own budget. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this novel, the conditions for the so-called foreign students – home location, study place, which we have heard today – are being re-regulated as regards the provision of higher study aid due to the distance and the costs of childcare. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Everything is good and beautiful, but I also think – I think Mr. Karlsböck has mentioned it – that it would be urgently necessary to create an incentive for service, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. This incentive is not included in this government template. I think that would be very important and a proper approach. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9765	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1153 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Maurer, colleagues and colleagues on study aid for students in the pre-student's course. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[11:49:12]] 2. Point Report of the Tourism Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry in Austria 2015 (III-268/1179 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9832	This means we can reach the 2nd place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Magistrate. Hauser in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9860	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear youth at the gallery! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! The tourism and the tourism report are very important. We are the world's champions of tourism, and we can be 100% proud of that. Tourism is essential, especially for rural areas, because jobs, value added and income are preserved through tourism, which is absolutely incontrovertible. We write record numbers every year. In 2015, there were 135 million nights at about 40 million arrivals. That's a lot of numbers. Once again, thanks to the entrepreneurs, who, despite the many bureaucracy et cetera, manage to achieve these dream results, they do their job. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of ÖVP and Greens]] That's really incontrovertible. But it is also primarily the task of the opposition to show where it is ill in tourism. I think that is absolutely necessary and important. There are different views in the government and in the opposition, and we have already made this point in the committee. Of course, the government side is rather trying to make everything appear very positive, and the opposition says: Tourism is absolutely important and runs thank God well, but there are many problems. The problems must also be addressed and eliminated. That's our job. If you look at this current tourism report, you can see that besides these wonderful figures and the direct and indirect value-added that tourism brings with over €24 billion for example, there are just a lot of facts in the statistics that need to stimulate thought. World market share: We're losing the world market all the time. In 2009 we still had 6.35% share, 2015 5.8 percent. There is also a drop from 8.51 percent in 2009 to 7.11 percent in the current market share in international European tourism. Unfortunately, the length of stay is also further declining from 4,9 nights to 3,4 nights, et cetera, et cetera. These are a few framework conditions that simply need to stimulate thought. In addition to these economic and business figures, the fact is that in recent years the tourism industry has had to face a lot of burdens, such as the registration fee requirement, the increase in VAT from 10 to 13 percent, the general regulation, which still has too high additional wage costs, the theater around the ban on smoking, the taxes on the transfer of operations. All these components have led to the fact that the basic mood in the industry – I say carefully – is not too good. If there is many contradictions, I may, in order to increase credibility, make a contribution from the ORF of 14. Cite March 2016: “Many hosts are thinking of stopping,” says the title of a corresponding report. The extent of the situation in the meantime can be seen if it is literally stated in the above report: ‘The host mortality has already been used (...). New regulations and bureaucratic barriers, such as the registration of registers or the allergy regulation, are mainly increasing small businesses. Last December, January and February, there were 40 percent more closures than in the same period of the previous year. (...) The host representatives feel unintellected by politics." They demand “a rethinking of politics and legislators.” The gastronomy owner in the Vienna Chamber of Commerce Peter Dobcak will be in the "Presse" of the 1. January 2016 quoted as follows: “In the next three years, 30 percent of the gastronomy will fall and prices will have to rise by 30 percent.” – He continues: ‘The mood among the gastronomyes is ‘miserable’. I can also quote Peter Haubner, economic representative of the ÖVP. Even ÖVP's spokesperson Peter Haubner, criticised in a "Kurier" interview of 9. In spite of previous consent to many laws, which I have just listed as a burden on the tourism industry, the burden on gastronomy companies – I quote – is: “The economic representative can understand the fact that hostesses are particularly sour.” – And: “It’s not possible to stop working in front of red tape.” The mood that is not positive in itself is also confirmed by everyone, and there is a need to go. First of all, I would like to ask myself the question: Are we going to start here in Parliament ourselves? – I remind you of our initiative to create a “clear legal regime for non-bureaucratic and non-bureaucratic short-term cooperation of family members in gastronomy companies”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was normal for every outside of the house. I refer to Mr Obernosterer, who has handed over the farm, who at home once has a silkel if a bus came and had to be reported theoretically. Everyone understands that this is not possible. For more than a year and a half, we were unable to bring about a legal settlement, because that was blocked by the SPÖ. No one understands that anymore! Then comes a regulation in which it is stated that the employee member of the family may keep a drink fee of up to €30 per day. I'm really wondering: What's that supposed to happen, please? On the one hand, one speaks of red tape reduction, and on the other hand, a regulation will be adopted which will allow one to keep 30 € of drinking money. Well, if you work as a family member, what do you do with the drink money if you get one at all? – That’s what the grandchildren get anyway and so on. I mean, politics has other tasks than breaking its head over it. You just have to help quickly what we didn't succeed. We have had to fight for one and a half years for this regulation in the case of family members. It's just too long, and no one understands. Another example is the best price clause on the booking platforms. We have been fighting for a long time now, and these initiatives are being postponed. Now may be a solution in view. In Germany and France, these best price clauses were prohibited by law because they are distortive and restrictive. We are also working on this issue in the committee forever, so that we can carry it forward, and the initiatives are postponed. This means that we need to work better, faster and more efficiently in the interests of tourism. It doesn't always work either. In conclusion: I also referred to the report by the tourist advice firm Prodinger in the Committee. Mr Vice-Chancellor has replicated that the whole report is negative in the main, although Prodinger does nothing but show where it really is ill. After all, 500 establishments are cared for by this tourist advice. It was found, among other things, that it was not good to extend the depreciation period for investment assets in tourism companies to 40 years – that is not possible, that really needs to be reduced again – and that, of course, the increase in VAT from 10 to 13 percent cannot be passed on to the guest or in the rarest cases. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] These are points to be shown to work on. The improvement of the framework conditions, especially the red tape reduction et cetera, is to be pursued intensively so that we have credibility. It must not remain alone in words. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The opposition is a driving force, and I also thank the opposition for the many joint initiatives. I think that's important and right. We'll see that we're bringing something forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e9979	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10000	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor, Minister of Economic Affairs and Minister for Tourism! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! What does the tourism report say? – Tourism has again demonstrated in economically difficult times that it is a strong economic engine that provides growth and jobs in this country. I think Austria has shown against the general economic trend that in Austria – my previous speaker also said that we are world champions of tourism – tourism continues to be on the foreman. Of course you can talk about a lot of plus and a lot of minus in tourism, but one also has to be said quite clearly: Tourism is being taken seriously by this government. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Well!]] We know the value of tourism, which it means to our country, because it is not a matter of course that the tourism report is being dealt with here in plenary. Many reports are finished in the committees and are not even put into plenary. What are the clear benefits of the tourism industry? – The number of nights has increased. This is not a matter of course, we only need to look at individual federal states. Turnovers have increased, and it is very important – of course also an impact of the current prevailing interest rate policy – that the maturity of the companies has declined. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] As far as the 2016 preview is concerned, the ÖHT says that in the tourism sector there has long been no investment as it is now in 2016. That's important, that's right. We know that there are difficult areas there and there, especially in the gastronomy, due to the small structure. We also know, of course, that we need to continue helping to strengthen our own initiative, because tourism is the only alternative in the rural labour market. We know that 80 percent of the investment in tourism goes to companies within 60 kilometres. Without tourism, the rural area would certainly not be there. We know what is particularly important for Austria and tourism, especially in the world's difficult time. Whatever we do this year, thank God, a little bit of good is still the top quality that Austrian tourism companies offer. Right now, one of the main features is that everyone who travels to Austria and makes a holiday in Austria knows that he can feel safe here. Unfortunately, this is no longer possible in many parts of the world, but Austria is still one of the safest countries at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know that there is still a lot to do there and there in the bureaucratic area. Our Minister for Tourism and Economic Affairs has also set up a working group on debureaucratisation. We know that controls must be, we know, regulations must be, but we also know that in the last x years – not only two or three years – more and more regulations have come up with controls. That's too buggy. I am sure that we can leave one third of it away without endangering the quality of the staff or the quality of tourism. The issue of family assistance in the farms has been settled for ten days. Non-bureaucratic and non-permanent family members may return to their homes if they are in retirement, provided they have a job or if they are in training. We've done that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's been a long time. That's right. This could have been done faster, but this solution, which is now on the table, is so uncomplicated that it is a good example of all the other things we do. With regard to inadequacy: For people in the tourism industry who should have worked only three hours a day at a wedding or an event on weekends, it is possible in future to consume the hours they have available per month on their own on a weekend. This will be very helpful, that is important, and many steps will still follow. To conclude, I would like to say: I still work when I get home in tourism. Tourism has been my life. You can also be a little negative, and no profession has only sun sides, but when I come to the world again – I tell you quite honestly – I will again become a tourist and again host. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10061	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10082	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Tourism and leisure industry in Austria: Let us be glad and proud that the economic engine tourism is still running in Austria, otherwise it would look dark in our country! Dear colleague Obernosterer, as an innkeeper, as a former operator of a hotel – said to colleague Rosenkranz – it is an important task for you to entertain the regular guests that you see, of course, that something is consumed. That is out of question. You're a diligent hoteler. That's right. But, ladies and gentlemen, the hoteliers, the gastronomy, would not be with such an enormous personal commitment to the work, then it would not look so good for our gastronomy. In 2015, we already heard that, there were 135.2 million nights and a turnover of approximately €38.4 billion. It all looks very good, only the yield of those concerned, ladies and gentlemen, does not look so rosy. Since all the jubilation reports about new records are of no use at night or in summer bookings, if nothing remains, ladies and gentlemen. It has been referred to, Mr Obernosterer, it is true that it has become a little better with regard to the help of their own family members. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is still true that the bureaucracy for our businesses, including gastronomy, the regulations, the regulations, the burdens are enormous. It is indeed the same – and that is what people tell me again and again – that child-acquiring can hardly be financed. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! We have a major problem with tourism, ladies and gentlemen, due to sanctions against Russia, because the guests from Russia in particular have missed out on us. I believe that these sanctions should be put to an urgent end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10120	Mr Mag. Sub-rainer is reported as next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10141	In tourism, nothing is as stable as change. – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the gallery and ladies and gentlemen in front of the Screens at home! Our hospitality characterizes tourism, our identity determines it, and above all it determines and shapes us. Austria is a snowstorm, a mountain lake, metropolis and alm at the same time. If we already have to accept speedy life in our world, we do not have to run into it. Why? – Because we can only remain faithful to ourselves, and I believe that is what the people who come to us as tourists want. They appreciate our honesty, they appreciate our Austria: a little modern, a little tedious tradition, mixed in a largely intact nature. But it's exactly the mix that makes it up and not just the marketplace. For me, one thing is very important: As a government party, we bear responsibility that we keep course that entrepreneurs in this country can continue to succeed, that workers, employees and also businesses can take a piece of cake home. Rapidness: I remember a great speech by Tobias Moretti on the occasion of a celebration for the 125th anniversary of tourism in Tyrol, in which he took the tourist jargon a little bit; I may briefly quote: “I see only that the panoramic palaces on the summits where the touristists, the councils, the mayors and architects are empty and you never get a place in the smaller cozy huts because everyone wants to go.” For me there is a political statement, because almost every Alpine valley with us now has a ski lift, but the families can no longer afford the ski passes in the normal case. And no matter how many snow cannons we draw up, the climate warming is reality and that will remain the same. If not now, when do we actually react to it? I claim that it is high time to deal with sustainability in tourism and to go in this direction. We already have 135 million Donations in Austria today – it is in the report – that is, nine times more than 1950. Today, there are nine of them standing at the top of the mountain. If it is 18, may it be 27, may it be 50? At the end of the day, do we forgive the best bidder a slot card on the summit cross? Is that the goal? Growth cannot be infinite, at least the resources of the Alps are not. We have set in motion very positive things in the past, about €5 billion tax reform, which increases people's purchasing power and thus benefits the leisure industry directly and indirectly. And despite or because of the financial crisis: As a social democrat, I am very concerned that everyone has the opportunity to make vacations in Austria, not only the guests from abroad, but above all our Austrians. We government parties have managed to get more and more understanding when it comes to welcoming people with disabilities, people with special needs than our guests. There is not only the thought behind doing social good, because in a society that is constantly getting older, in which more and more people have special needs, these are also opportunities for the economy. A lift is of great benefit to many, people with children's weights, wheelchairs or even older people, one of which is important to me: It must always be based on voluntaryness and far-sightedness. However, the potential of some 340 million appointments is a good argument and offers a very great opportunity. To conclude: I also want us to clean up that we continue to bring out the bureaucracy, that we can bring in opportunities. We must certainly take new paths if we want to take new paths. In this sense: We work together for the future of Austrian tourism, for the engine of the Austrian economy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10201	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10223	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The tourism report is well done and pleasing. We have 39 million arrivals, 135 million nights. Our main markets are in front of the doorstep: 37 percent of guests come from Germany, 26 percent from Austria, 7 percent from the Netherlands, and then Switzerland, England, Italy, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Russia and France follow. The expenses of domestic and foreign guests amount to €38 billion, and tourism gives almost 200 000 people in Austria work, which is almost 6 percent. Note that 2015 was a small outsider, we had early Easter, we had a very snowy winter and a hot summer. This led many guests, who were looking for the cool Alpine region, to us in the hot summer, as well as to the lakes. And it must also be admitted that competition markets, especially in the southern Mediterranean, have become more insecure. We are experiencing increases in price poles. The high-priced hotel industry segment and the low-priced segment – one- and two-star accommodations – are growing, it weakens the middle with the three stars. The opposition succeeded – Mr Hauser has already said it – in getting away the best price clause. The Minister now sees the need for action and will change the law against unfair competition, and we will abolish this best price clause just like Germany and France. For me, page 27 is interesting in the report. There is a very critical approach to border controls, and it is pointed out that these border controls could pose a risk and lead to a break in growth. I would ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to align the sharpeners in your ranks, but above all in the FPÖs, to proceed with these border controls. This is harmful to our tourism and saddens the image of our country. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] I cannot understand the statement that IWT has experienced a saturation and may be expected to be a stagnation in the future. However, if you are promoting with tax gifts the cheap way out of Austria in countries with which we cannot keep up with price, then this is negative and counterproductive. I see huge growth potential in the Renaissance of summer freshness. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] Summer is getting hotter. Where are people going? – To the cooler Alps to the lakes. You are looking for a holiday in Austria. And what we have to do is expand the offer, especially the bike offer, bike and train, bike and bus, bed+bike, which well sign the cycle paths. Here there is a huge potential up to the opening of the forest roads for mountain bikes. And of course the mountain attracts as an adventure. Ladies and gentlemen, every guest who feels comfortable in Austria is an excellent ambassador to Austria. But only those people who can take good care of the guest because they like their workplace and feel comfortable there can help our guests become good ambassadors of Austria. If a misprogrammed tax reform leads to annoyance of hoteliers and innkeepers when there are sometimes bad dealings with the staff in tourism and people are expressed if the work does not make them happy because so many bureaucratic obstacles are being built up instead of reduced, then it is clear that the employees do not feel comfortable in tourism and therefore their guests cannot be cared for so well; and that is bad. We need happy guests who are well cared for by happy people in Austria. These guests will be exciting to tell about Austria all over the world. Oral propaganda is the best propaganda. Every guest in Austria who tells at home how great it is in Austria and how casual the people are, how great the landscape is, the culture, how friendly the people are, will bring new guests to us. That's what it's all about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to the conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen, I have still experienced the time when not tourism, but tourism, in which the guest who came to us was “foreign”. Recently I went through Innsbruck's old town with a hotelier's wife, and she lamented: These refugees, they're too many, and you have to be afraid of them. Then I said to her: Please, there are hundreds of thousands of people from all over the world in front of the Golden Dachl. Are you afraid? - That's what she meant: No, why? Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the guest who has money in his bag, no one is afraid. The guest who made a trip to us with much courage, often dangerous, near to death that comes to us with a lot of hope and energy, but has no money, is that a bad stranger? Do you have to be afraid of this? - No! As a host country, we also need to better treat these guests who come to us without money, but much hope, a lot of potential, a lot of strength. That's what I'm saying right now in the direction of the FPÖ: You always want the guests with money. [[Abg. Haider: Tourists go home again after two weeks!]] And when a Russian comes to bring a bunch of coal, the liberal Member even advocates that he be granted Austrian citizenship, but otherwise she goes to the guests without money. I can't! We Greens want an Austria as a great host country. We want our guests to become ambassadors of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10284	Next, Mr. Dr. Kassinger will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10306	Mr President. Federal Minister! We have already heard a lot about the fact that in the economy in general and in the tourism sector in particular – because there are long-term investments to be made – it is very necessary that there is legal certainty that there is stable framework conditions that the gastronomy operators can rely on the legislator, who is responsible for economic policy, for the design of the framework conditions. We have already had some bad examples this year, such as an extension of the amortization period. Everyone who works business knows that this is the very opposite of legal certainty. The increase in turnover is also I would not now subsume tax on the gastronomy companies under particularly great conditions in terms of legal certainty. What is it about me now in concrete terms? – I am concerned with the gastronomy industry or the gastronomy in urban areas, from the point of view of measurable parameters, legal certainty as a task for economic policy. We have here in Vienna, in the urban area, an occasion where this is not given. The basis is the – well-known – I would like to say almost – § 113 of the Commercial Code, which is just the opposite of what legal certainty has to mean. What exactly is this about? – It’s about putting aheads and delaying hours, so it’s possible to extend lock times, but also to shorten them again. This is within the competence of the relevant municipality, but within the legal competence of the Federal legislator within the framework of § 113. Paragraph 5 is the critical paragraph. I quote this paragraph, which we do not think should remain and should be heard as amended, which is also the subject of the motion for a resolution which I shall subsequently bring forward: ‘If the neighborhood has been inadequately harassed by a non-criminal behaviour of guests before the establishment of the restaurant or if there are security police concerns, the municipality shall require a later lock-up period or an earlier blocking period.’ That is to say, the community can then prescribe that the blocking hour, for example, is no longer at 4 o'clock in the morning, but at 12 o'clock midnight, which, of course, corresponds to de facto a death sentence for a local that is appropriately oriented. There is only such an undetermined concept of law. What is “unreasonably bothered ”? – It is our freedom to create legal clarity here, and Mr Schellhorn will then speak on the same subject. We only have different access to the Operandi mode, but we are of the same opinion. We have also made a joint request to the Committee, which, of course, has been postponed, like all these requests. The meaning of our request is: We want to create safe conditions for urban gastronomy, especially in Vienna, which will of course also produce investments and boost the economy. – In this specific event, €3.5 million has been invested and 35 jobs are at risk. These are the facts. This potential conflict between gastronomy operators and neighbours, whose rights of course need to be recognized and taken into account, must be clear framework conditions. And these clear framework conditions are due to the current § 113 para. 5 of the trade order not yet given. In so far as I am making the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10390	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Kassager is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10481	Next, Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10503	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Well, we must admit that we saw it darker at the beginning of the winter season, and it went out better. You also have to admit that to mercilessly. The number of nights, especially for the last winter and for your statistics, and your speeches resembled a winter fairy tale, but you have to be able to see it a little more differentiated, especially as there was an enormous increase in nights in city hotels – including winter – and it has been possible to bring about a very compressed, very dense occupation over winter due to this unique constellation of the short winter season with the early Easter. That means, in fact, it was a really good winter season according to the night statistics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] In this respect, however, we should above all think about the value added in the establishments. This is not only what I say, but also country tourism experts like the head of tourism Leo Bauer: He's worried about the income of our businesses. It is also worth noting that this excellent statistics have given rise to one: that the guests who come to us remain much shorter. That is, the marketing effort and the effort to be able to manage these guests is a much bigger one. The marketing expenditure of the four- and five-star hotel industry in terms of application for the guests rose by 16 percent in the last two years. This figure alone shows how difficult it will be to achieve these figures in the future, and I think that if the ÖVP is really well done and is working strategicly, then it will have to go away from its high-tax, high-bureaucracy and high-employment concept. And here I do not understand my dear friend Gabriel Obernosterer or my colleague, Unterrainer, when they speak of an urgently necessary step of debureaucratisation. You would have had a long time to debureaucise this industry and, above all, the companies. You would have had long enough time to reform the trade order, too, for people or companies. You would have had long enough time, especially to facilitate and avoid burden on businesses in the bureaucratic effort. You didn't do that! Now to speak of it, because the pressure from outside is so strong, and to say: We need this now urgently!, is a late insight that costs a lot of money. For these reasons, I would like to stress that it is very important to draw a picture of where it should go, and this should include a tourism report: In view of climate change, taking into account other working worlds, how will tourism 2030 take place, in view of the fact that there must also be tax relief or opportunities – not only relief but also opportunities – to close down businesses? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] If we remember that over the next ten years, almost 5 000 companies are being taken over and in this respect we will probably not find for all the purchasers, then that means that there must also be the possibility of closing a holding that has only more than a balance sheet value of € 250 000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] The private entrepreneur, who wants to close, can only register more bankruptcy if there is an upgrading balance sheet. These are the realities. And we must succeed – and I must say that is also the responsibility of the current Minister of Tourism – in the marketing, in the five levels of tourism to find new, modern structures, from the hotelier to the Austrian advertising. We have too many structures here, and we need to think about how we can make things easier. Finally, I also hope that it is not true what I hear about the ÖHT. I hope that the ÖHT will continue to be the bank responsible for the acceptance of liability and that it will not be included in the AWS. That would be the next dagger to be added to tourism. I hope this is not true too, dear Minister of Tourism. After this conclusion, I would just like to add to what Mr Kassinger said: It is not just about urban gastronomy, it is about every host garden that has a neighbor. It is about what will flower us 2018 when the smoking ban is implemented and when the guests are smoking in front of the house, and that is the volume issue. This is about legal certainty. This is about legal certainty for all companies that have recently fulfilled requirements and are facing the next edition when the first possible display of a neighbor comes to the Commercial Authority and shortens the opening hours. That is why our request, which I would like to make, is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Economic Affairs! I would also like to hand over a copy of these 5,500 signatures of the petition from this discussed Bettelalm to make it clear that this is also a serious problem, including the legal certainty of small and medium-sized enterprises. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10611	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10672	Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10694	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have many spectators here at the top of the gallery, and it may be that if we now discuss the tourism report and the situation of tourism, one or the other is uncertain, because the opposition usually represents a rather negative picture and the government representatives may choose a very positive representation. I would therefore invite you: Let's just orient ourselves to the facts! The facts are essentially derived from the tourism report and are available to all of you, especially those who are also represented in the Economic Committee and the Tourism Committee. I can quote from the report from page 18: “In view of the rather moderate economic recovery in the euro area, Austrian tourism developed surprisingly exceptionally favourable.” This is also underlined by the figures in the report – by the way from the WIFO – and is also supported and documented accordingly in the report. It is indisputable that last year we had a record record of about 135 million nights, including a record of arrival. In this context, from my point of view, the statements are interesting because they are also referred to: Yes, but the business development, the results are so bad! . We also have corresponding increases in sales, which is why we also have better opportunities to achieve good business results. For example, last year we had real 3.7 percent total sales increases, nominally 5.6 percent. We will also have the increase in revenue in 2016 and 2017. I can also mention a few reasons for this: among other things, because the tourists from abroad, but especially the domestics, are spending more, and this is particularly related to the tax reform that we made in 2016 and which is going to have an effect – also a quote from the WIFO. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Peter Worm]] If, in this context, the enterprises and the performance of the companies and their employees are mentioned here, which are relevant to this: Of course, that is the basis. But you can already assume that there are other reasons in addition to the tax reform, and the other reasons – they have been addressed – are related to uncertainty in Europe as a whole and worldwide and that you are on vacation in safe countries – therefore Austria is pleased to be a destination – and the radius of holiday travel also chooses shorter. Thirdly, I can already point out that the guests are coming because Austria's advertising is doing good work. You've noticed less so far. We have also had the winter season – it has been addressed. This has also resulted in a record, also increasing sales figures. In this context, I would also like to mention a few facts: We have had an increase of 3.6 percent especially among German guests after years of stagnation in the nights. The Russian guests who are always so stressed that destroy us more or less as far as the balance sheet is concerned make up 1 percent of the total number of nights. It is also unfortunate if they no longer come, but next year, together with the Russian representatives, we will do a year of tourism and see that we will also pick up in this area. It is not a question of sanctions, but rather of the bad ruble course, which has helped to reduce expenditure and travel abroad accordingly. Finally, I should like to refer to Professor Smeral, who has also said in the tourism report that this trend will continue, as has been said. Mr Hauser, have a rather good feeling You didn't have what I noticed when you spoke because you quoted how bad the mood would be, because you and other tourism representatives noticed: If you spread bad mood outside now, the guests will probably not be very excited and may not come. If you have a bad mood, this may be because you have also quoted loud reports that have affected the gastronomy, and you have always quoted March and January. I'll tell you: During this period, the mood may have been there and there not good. You are right, the counter-financing of the tax reform has not only been pleasing, but I have also presented the positive effects to you. They did not quote everything completely, because it is true that we are already better placed in terms of market shares, but you must say that in 2008 and 2009 we were in a constellation as far as the possibilities of sales are concerned, that precisely because of the economic crisis, we are also well situated in this area. We have lost market shares in recent years. What you have not said about this – look at the tourism report you have available on page 19! –: We now have 5.8 percent market share in the EU-15 ratio and have had less in 2014, less in 2013, around the same share in 2012 and a share below it a few years before the crisis. The key factor in the final effect is: We're going up! That's the message I'm taking. The second factor also concerns the real effort of the overnight stay: The customer spends more. There too we have at 159 € per night a gratifying trend, also on the same side more than 2014, more than 2013, about where we have been in 2012. You all know the development and reasons for this. Ladies and gentlemen, I know from this one cannot say: That's absolute satisfaction. I know the mood, too. But I would like to say that this has not led to this – because the people, the companies already appreciate exactly: what is the future development? – that now, and even in the face of a council of relevant interest groups, is not invested, but rather, on the contrary, it will invest more. Investments, particularly liabilities, supported by the ÖHT, have increased by 70 percent over the last five months. It is also a sign that the mood is not the way some in their respective statements want to represent or see it, but much, much better. This also applies to the framework conditions. You can see it at the bureaucracy as you want and say: You'd have and you'd have to! The question is: Are you doing the right thing now? – I believe that we are doing the right thing – you have not mentioned it at all because no one would like to mention what is positive – the reduction of additional wage costs. We have already decided in Parliament that you have decided. We have a reduction by one percentage point until 2018. That doesn't sound much, but if you look at FLAF – from 4.5 to 4.0 percent – then that's in numbers if I can present it in an example... [[Abg. Peter Worm: In the law it is 0.2 percent!]] - Please? [[Abg. Peter Wurm: It's 0.2 percent in the law, Minister!]] – I also mentioned the year 2018 and that this is happening in steps. [[Abg. Wöginger: It has already been decided, Mr President.]] If you say so, we don't have to exchange calls at all. I'm just telling you: An average four-star operation, 106 beds, 30 employees, 25 363 € annual gross average, saves almost exactly 7 000 € per year. 7 000 € – this is more than one, possibly two months, for an average entrepreneur, and I would say that this can be argued. Second point concerning clarification was an essential merit of Gabriel Obernosterer. You can remember that the “Wut-Oma” from Rauris, the right one who unfortunately died, has already mentioned this at the time, that is clear. In this context, family members can now also work as employees in the company. The booking platforms have been addressed in the following way: Of course it was only the merit of the opposition that we understood! – Take it as it pleases you, I can live with it! But it is a huge risk that we are going to face, because in the final effect it has not yet been competitive at EU level. That is to say, we have a number of measures in progress, of which one can quite say that these – and not because I tell you, but because tourism sees it this way – also benefit tourism companies accordingly. Therefore, as far as the future is concerned, I can say, especially with regard to bureaucracy: We also have a number of points in view that we are going to deal with accordingly, including the problem of trade regulations, which, in fact, do not necessarily affect the situation of tourism now, but we are going to look at it as intensively as all the other issues. I can see that right now. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: It may be unfortunate for you, but if I look at the facts, I have to say the numbers are just positive, the bookings for the summer as well. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Peter Worm]] That is to say, not the merit of the Federal Government, but the merit of the companies, the merit of the guests, but everything in the system will not be wrong either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10793	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. – Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10817	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, on behalf of Mr Norbert Sieber, I should like to welcome the fourth class of a tourism community, namely the 4. Class primary school from Lech am Arlberg. Welcome to us! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, to the last words: The report for the year 2015 shows a lot of positive developments. To you, Mr Vice-Kanzler, I would also like to thank you very much for your commitment in the Committee to include in the next tourism report “Holidays at the farm”. It is true, for example, that some 10,000 farms in Austria participate in “Holiday at the farm”, and if you use the number of beds to calculate about 113 000 beds, that is about 11 percent of the offer. In addition, I believe that we can say quite: “Holiday at the farm” and the small private owners, both areas need each other, the small and the large. You also benefit from each other, and everyone has some of it. The fact that tourism is of course a very valuable and important part of the Austrian economy is out of question. This is not only about foreign guests, but also about domestic and foreign guests and, of course, about close recovery. From my point of view, it is not only about urban tourism, it is also an important area, but – and that has already been said by previous speakers today – tourism also plays a major role in rural areas: Think of winter tourism, summer tourism! It would certainly look much different in tourism without the rural families – and I myself come from the rural area – because ultimately: Why are many people coming to Austria? – Because there is not only good food and a good cultural offer here, but we also have a well-kept cultural landscape. We have this cultural landscape because the rural families do a lot of valuable work in this regard. However, it is important for the rural families that they can also live from their work. So my appeal and my request are: Let us also use Austrian products in tourism and gastronomy in the future! It is no secret that many guests from abroad, who know our valuable and tastefully very good food in Austria, are happy to buy it abroad – at home. We are also dependent on export. In this way, it is important that our holiday guests also buy Austrian food at home as consumers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The tourism sector is an important and valuable part, and, as I said, it also needs the rural families, the work of the rural families and a fair partnership. Especially if today we have heard Mr Vice-Chancellor's speech as well as some speeches of the opposition: In my opinion, we should simply try to think even more about solutions in the future. Changes are the most normal part of the world, and I think we should help businesses to cope positively, through solution-oriented thinking and not through sick people. Good to tourism!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10872	Next, Mr Bacher.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10895	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear spectators on the visitor gallery and at home in front of the screens! Ladies and gentlemen! The present tourism report says a lot about guest flows, about nights and describes – and that is essential to me – the diversity and innovation potential of tourism. This is particularly important for rural regions, because tourism means jobs in the regions, it means high-quality training in the regions, value added in the regions, and above all also means that people of different origins and different religions have a common goal of enjoying their holidays in peace and in addition to the beauty of our regions. Guests can enjoy it if they can spend their holidays with us – and I mean all of Austria. This is possible because the Austrians, the companies with their employees, as well as politics create an environment in which you feel comfortable. Value added is an essential factor for prosperity in the regions. I would like to show this on the basis of a few figures from my industry, the cable car industry: In our region, some 3,000 workers in the other industries, such as gastronomy, retailing, bakers, hairdressers and so on, come to 550 employees in the cable cars. In addition, jobs in the construction, small and medium-sized industries, insurance, banks, gas stations and other sectors are also indirectly secured. The direct value added of the cable cars is €13.7 million in our region; the total value added is over €100 million in Pinzgau. So we have a lot to offer in tourism. But the most important thing is to stay innovative. This also includes new teaching professions, and I am particularly pleased that we have now also created the opportunity to learn the teaching profession of Hotel Kaufmann/Hotelkauffrau. Also the cable car technician In is a very young teaching profession, and it has cost me a lot of persuasion to introduce it, but now this profession is a success story for itself. But we also need the corresponding wages so that we can keep these employees. If I look at the apprenticeship compensation in the new teaching profession Hotel specialist, I see that it is still about as high as in other tourist areas in the first year – I compare it with the cable cars again, because I know it very well – but already in the second year we are almost 55 € below, and in the third year already 220 € is missing. I don't think that's the right access. In my opinion, it is necessary to start paying in order to get back more high-quality specialists in the area of gastronomy. It is not to be seen that wages in tourism professions are far below the wages in technical professions. From my point of view, professional work in the service sector has the same importance as professional work in the industry, and we are all required to work towards changing this imbalance and achieving a balance of wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10936	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hanger.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e10957	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We debate the muskreit 2015. As has already been said by my previous speakers, it is very remarkable figures that can be placed on the table. Tourism in Austria is a success story: 135 million appointments in 2015 mean an increase of 20 percent compared to the year 2000. Two thirds of guests come from neighbouring countries, but also from China – plus 41 percent – and from the Arab countries – plus 36.5%, or for example from the USA – plus 12.3 percent. This testifies to the fact that Austrian tourism is very well positioned. 90,000 farms – and the number is very remarkable – from small businesses, medium-sized enterprises, to large businesses, especially in rural regions, which are often less economically strong, provide very many jobs. If one counts among the direct employees in tourism the indirect employees, then there are 600 000 jobs in Austria, a value added of around 50 billion and 15 percent of the gross domestic product. I would like to add one to these many figures, which also seems very important to me personally: If you look at the foreign tourist revenues per capita, that's according to the WTO, 2 400 US dollars, and so we're among the top 5 worldwide. I also mention these figures because I sometimes feel that we can no longer be happy in Austria, and the tourist figures are, in my opinion, an occasion for joy. We can also be a little proud, because I believe that this joy, this optimism, is needed to meet the challenge of the future. I would like to address two points which concern the labour market: We have a relatively tense labour market situation in Austria – including about 400,000 unemployed participants, at the same time the highest level of self-employed people – and I note, for example, in the tourism sector, also in the region that workers are constantly being asked for. That's almost a paradoxical situation. I know that this is a question of spatial mobility, I know that it is about issues of qualification, about all these things, but perhaps this is about sometime or other. These two figures are very important to me, because it can also be an important contribution to combating unemployment. Another point is also very important to me – I experience it in my region, but that will be so throughout Austria: It is our family businesses that ensure that tourism works the way it works. There are many farms, where in fact, in part four generations, often three generations work together, especially for capacity coverage. Often, the children work on the weekend training, and grandparents help out when, for example, a bus group comes – the capacity planning in tourism is by no means easy – and that's why it's really a success. In particular, I would like to thank our tourist speaker Gabi Obernosterer and our vice chancellor for having succeeded in finalising the employment of family close to family members. Many have discussed, many have talked, few have done – and the Gabriel Obernosterer was on the front and did so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I should like to thank you very much for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11014	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11038	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciated spectators at the visitor gallery, especially the guests from Vöcklabruck, and in front of the televisions! Mr Hanger, I should like to add the following to your remarks: It's very interesting, it's excellent! It seems that you were not present at all the meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, because we have even had part-session breaks so that the most natural thing can be done in the world: the possibility of working together with family members. [[Abg. Hanger: You have not made any suggestions!]] - Go, please! Look, if you don't listen, you don't know it again tomorrow, and if you're outside the congregations, you can't even explain it to the host! [[Abg. Hanger: proposals...!]] Go out to the innkeepers to a tribal table and don't always talk in there! Look, the problem is as follows: We had a session break because it was not possible for the fathers and mothers who had been running the farm to be able to help these 50 years when a fully occupied bus or a larger group of walkers came. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Now it's a success. So if that's the New Deal, it's an Ural deal, but don't do anything! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One could, of course, talk about labels, but that doesn't matter, but I still have to talk about food on them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] We're happy – or, Peter Wurm? - We've been asking for this for a long time. You always say the opposition doesn't demand anything. I mean, You should listen a lot more! [[Abg. Hanger: You have to solve it!]] Thank you, Mr Vice-Chancellor. That's what happened now. Let us speak positively: Many thanks to all the hotel, gastronomy, accommodation companies, “Holiday at the farm”, private room rental for what they do, what willingness, what use they make, warm thanks, otherwise it would not be possible, but also to all employees. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Willi.]] But I can bring a little scene out of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: It's exciting when we discuss the four-day week there and want to be served every seven days a week! I only made a short trip to the gastronomy, but my best cook left me because he said his girlfriend put him before the choice: either the Wimberghof or she. Well, where did he cook today? – Today he cooks in the biggest competition of the gastronomy, at a supermarket inn, because every supermarket, every furniture market today has a gastronomy, a restaurant that the guests pick up, and there he is now cook and is free on Sunday. So we have to consider what we do with our actions. Mr Minister, you will confirm – in addition to the good prospects – that 7 000 forces are being sought. This shows how demanding the job is. We may have to do something about salary there and there, but it already says something about the performance. Because I have the fish Lechneralm in front of me – at present, today’s “Salzburger Nachrichten” –: [[pointing to a picture placed in front of itself on the speaker’s desk, which shows a woman behind a fence with the inscription “Lechneralm closed”]] We need to know what we have done with this register obligation. Five almens have not opened this year at the Hochkönig. I am now less talking to the President of the Chamber of Agriculture, who is known to be a mining speaker, but rather to the Gabi Obernosterer: Hochkönig Tourismus GmbH complains that this has fatal consequences. Why? – Because your guests, the guests in Salzburger Land, in Styria, in Lower Austria, no matter where they are housed, want to hike in a well-kept cultural landscape. And that's what I'm already on the subject. This is an alm that has even been managed without electricity – for 300 years! - since 1982 with banishment. Now we still have to tax them. And that's where we talk about volunteering?- Oh, my God! Now I'm coming to the clubs: I was at a great concert at the Hausruckchor on the weekend, but no matter if music chapel, fire brigade, there we make for all the clubs – where we so praise the voluntaryity, where so much valuable work is done for the youth, for our boys who grow up well there well guarded, with discipline, and learn a lot for life – also taxes with registers, we bring them into need. [[Abg. Obernoster:... such a nonsense, clubs...!]] That doesn't make sense, there we have to work with a lot more house-mind, there we need the old state-of-the-art scheme again. Mr. Vice-Chancellor has promised me that he will look at this. That the association of the regional host needs a signature for the event permit, that has worked super. Dear Gabi Obernoster! You mentioned your investment activity around 30 kilometres. And, dear Gabi, because it fits so well with yesterday's milk summit – and I am convinced that I will probably get the approval of the half government, but actually I would have to get it from the representatives of the consumers – and because also the colleague Prince today called for us to need the food label: [[towards SPÖ]] Today I have taken with me three examples, the “heavy” example I have used a few times, two and a half kilos of rainforest palm fat biomargarine, then the small version that you can serve at the breakfast table, that is butter substitute palm fat from the rain forest, and the small quick solution, the children’s milk chocolate, and there is quite clearly palm fat on it, but Ferrero already knows the meaning: [[keep a large package of margarine in height]] [[keeping a small package of margarine in height]] [[Keeping a chocolate gel in height]] They write “butter fat” very large, but that is very little inside, and that is the problem we have. If we lock the pastures if we no longer have the cow-keeping and import palm fat from the rainforest, then we no longer have the well-kept cultural landscape! This is indeed “wonderful”: Palm fat against butter fat! This has been kept silent again yesterday. We are simply substituted, but we have to be clear that sometime then our guests can take a bike tour in the beautiful forest, but the cultural landscape will be missing, and I do not know if then the number of tourists will grow. Maybe the complexion of some in the dark is then a bit protected, but I think that's not the goal we have. On yesterday's milk summit: We have seen clearly there that the funds pass by agriculture, because one has to explain this to me – no, don't shake the head, Mr. Obernosterer! –: [[Abg. Obernoster shakes the head]] If only 20 percent of all the funds listed in the media as farmers' money come to a farm and the majority, 80 percent, pass – to the agricultural market Austria € 26 million, to Deutsche Telekom, which is like a typical farmer with Steirerhut, € 19.2 million, € 13.7 million to the rural training institutions – when we put the money into the civil service and not where it is effective, then we have the results that we have just got: We have the largest farm mortality, the largest wave of slaughtering these dear, valuable dairy cows through a wrong agricultural policy. [[Abg. Obernoster: But that's not...!]] That is why we now come up with a motion for a resolution in this context, and I am convinced that we will get the full agreement because this quality partnership of hospitality and gastronomy has nothing to do with bureaucracy at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] In this sense, I make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] The topic of bureaucracy: Mr Gabi Obernosterer, I now get a menu from Switzerland: When listed in the back, who supplies the vegetables, who supplies the meat, the beef, the pork, and who supplies the dairy products, that is not bureaucracy, but fairness to our customers. [[Abg. Obernosterer: Ah, that's not bureaucracy – okay!]] We're asking for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11237	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11298	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11319	Mr President. Minister! High house! I'm trying to take the speech a bit quieter. The Austrians are happy to make a holiday. You're traveling. The world travels, and the world is always very happy to visit Austria. This is more than clear from the key data of this report for 2015. Austria's tourism companies exceeded all expectations in 2015 – this has already been addressed several times today. There is an increase of 2.5 percent, i.e. a new record of around 135 million nights. For me as a Styrian MP, it is of course extremely gratifying that Styria has gained market shares next to Vienna, Upper Austria, but also Salzburg. Tourism is an economic factor that is no longer to be thought away in Styria. More tourism, in turn, means more business. More than 3.7 million people visited Styria in 2015. This means a plus of 190 000 compared to 2014. There were almost 11.8 million nights, which in turn corresponds to a plus of 332,000. In the previous year, the Styria recorded most of the national deposits in Austria, with most domestic guests coming from the Styria itself, which shows how native the steirers are. Since I am the only female speaker on this item on the agenda, I would like to briefly address a point which is not taken up in the report, namely women in tourism. In Austria's tourism companies, 58 percent of employees are women, and the situation of women is often very precarious there. I address the career opportunities of women: Top positions are hardly occupied by women. The issue of compatibility between work and family is also hardly a topic in tourism. Business kindergartens and family-friendly working time planning for female employees are only available in exceptional cases. The re-entry after the karenz period is still extremely difficult in these industries. Employment is often characterised by a low duration of employment and also by a high risk of unemployment. There are high loads, there are severe working conditions and also special forms of working time. I am addressing the weekend work, but I am also addressing seasonal work and, above all, part-time work. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still much to be done in this area – much to do for a comprehensive improvement of working conditions, but also much to do for equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11365	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11386	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Obernosterer, Mr Hanger, before a legend is formed, we should once again explain how the situation of family members in the gastronomy has arisen: A year and a half ago we discussed this in the Economic Parliament in Tyrol, then we went from the Economic and Social Union to keeping the ball flat, and we were told in the Economic Parliament at that time that the problem does not exist – until we have proved to you that it is very probably an existing problem. [[Call the ÖVP:But no solution is shown!]] You have always claimed from the ÖVP that it is not executed and you do not need to be afraid. What happened now? - You have to make that clear. There is now no new law, there is no new regulation, but after a year and a half it has brought SPÖ and ÖVP together to create a leaflet. That is, this story, which we have been discussing in the National Council for almost a half hour, is regulated in a leaflet – Mr Obernosterer, I think you are right – in a leaflet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] I am already very excited about this fact sheet – it is not yet before me – and I will then take a very close look at it. [[Abg. Obernosterer:... wrong information!]] - That's right, please! I would also like to add the following to clarify this: Mr. Obernosterer, you will probably not tap beer at home in your hotel at the counter. [[Abg. Obernoster: Well!]] I'll tell you why: As far as I know, you will run your hotel as a GmbH, and this is generally excluded, Mr Obernosterer. All entrepreneurs, touristists and gastronists who run their operations in the form of a GmbH are excluded from this leaflet rule. Mr. Obernosterer becomes, if no one shows him – then probably illegal – on the counter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] I just wanted to explain that. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I am coming to tourism again very briefly. I do not want to spread here, but if you were to talk to your ÖVP husband and new chairman of the Economic Federation in Tyrol – the tourism country number one – once, Mr. Hörl, you could realize that Mr. Hörl in Tirol constantly, every 14 days on this federal government and on what she does not throw everything between her legs. According to Hörl, it is a miracle that tourism in Austria is still working. This now comes from the ÖVP, from the practice outside, from the chairman of the Economic Federation in Tyrol and touristist Hörl. The last point – and you yourself have admitted that, Mr Vice-Chancellor – is that in the gastronomy, I say it again, the problem is only starting to become effective. The problem of registers will bring us in Austria – I look over to the reds in particular – a variety of new unemployed people from the gastronomy. Now comes the register, 2018 comes the smoking ban. In this way, you are not only provoking 30 percent of the entrepreneurship of the ÖVP, but you are negligently suffering from thousands of new unemployed, although record unemployment exists anyway, just because no one knows things in practice so far that the old regulation is maintained. There was also a registration fee obligation before 2016, but there was the limit of €150 000, in case someone does not know. Now it is €15 000, and I think that is really a fatal attack on Austrian gastronomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11458	The next item is the report by Mr Schabhüttl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11480	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Values Watchers here and at home in front of the TV screens! I'm allowed to say hello in advance: It's nice that you, the 4A of the New Middle School in Steinberg, are here in the beautiful Burgenland, district Oberpulendorf. [[General condolences.]] The tourism report is on the agenda today, we have heard a lot about it. This report is an important parameter for tourism and represents the figures, data and also the most important facts. Right ahead: The present report 2015 should be consistently positive. Mr Vice-Chancellor has already carried out it, in which not exactly good general economy could increase tourism in many areas. Thus, the number of nights spent rose to the record level of 135.2 million, and total turnover increased by 3.7 percent in real terms and nominally by 5.6 percent. On closer consideration, the number of nights increases sharply, but the length of stay decreases and becomes shorter. This need must be taken into account in a strategy or planning in the future. The positive figures of the 2015 tourism report have certainly also contributed to the fact that Austria is a safe holiday country and that there is also a great deal of quality to be offered here. Let me take a brief look at the labour market in the tourism sector. On average, 202 943 were self-employed Employees working in tourism, which is 2.6 percent more than in the previous year. The proportion of women is 58 percent, and of course there is a slight increase in employment. In the city the population was spread out with 46.20% under the age of 18, which is 6.5% more than in the county. [[Abg. Matznetter:... German!]] Overall, 12.5 percent of the unemployed came from the tourism sector, which is, of course, seasonally different. Also from the EU came very, very many workers. In summary, tourism is another major support for the Austrian economy and the labour market. The way or direction is right, but it is clear that in the future it will need concepts and measures – I will include a keyword, debureaucratisation – so that this success story can continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11522	Mr Mittekanzler spoke on a further opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11544	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make one more brief comment on Mr Wurm's statements. Honestly, it is unfortunate that this clarification to the family members took so long – you're right – but this search for the inventor, which can't be quite true. If you say that you have been presenting this for a year and a half in the Chamber of Commerce of Tyrol, I ask you if you know when this TV show was broadcast with the host from Rauris. – That was in August 2014. That's a little longer than what you told me here. [[Call to the FPÖ: When did this happen, Mr. Minister?- Oh, my God!]] So let's leave one part of it! I think we agree. Second, that's something more essential: There are appropriate regulations across Europe – in almost all countries – which leads to smoking. And all studies show that there is no decline at all there – neither in companies nor in employees. There are healthier workers, and in the locals there are more other target groups that have felt restricted by smoking. Next point: I don't want to say that registers would be a bad thing either. On the contrary, it is a question of the state having seen that, in some areas compared to other countries, the revenue from VAT, which the businessmen, as to what the pre-tax is about, is on average below-average. And in almost all countries, the trend – partly implemented – is currently to work with registers. That's what we do. There have been certain problems in introducing what is happening to certifications and other ones, which must be discontinued. [[call to the FPÖ]] But what's going on now is the closures you just quoted: These are announcements. Look at this in relation to the foundations. Their number is the same as in recent years. In the final effect there are already there and there those who say that he does not do this and change it, but in reality the leading companies, you know, have been working with the system for a long time in the area of hospitality and gastronomy. Why do they do that? – They do so because they have a better overview of the entire economic rupture. I think, in the sense of equal treatment – including the conditions of competition – such a system is well done – and we are still working on it – is quite compatible. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Unsolicited So you're the horror news that this leads to a complete decline in the context. This is as wrong as many other things that have been said here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11589	Next speaker: Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11611	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! As the last speaker, I would like to lose a few words on the subject of tourism training, because there are two worth mentioning innovations in this area since the previous year, which are absolutely to be welcomed. ==References== The new teaching profession Hotelkaufmann/Hotelkauffrau will be taught July 2015. This new apprenticeship has been set up as a temporary training attempt and can be started by June 2020. The focus of this training is in the areas of reception, warehouse, purchase, human resources, wage accounting, so in the commercial area; and unlike the continuing teaching profession of hotel and hospitality assistant, the profession does not include activities in the areas of restaurant, service and kitchen. It is gratifying that some 100 young people are already in training in this area. Also new and worth mentioning is the apprenticeship and apprenticeship coaching “teaching instead of emptiness”. After a pilot phase in four federal states, this project was held on the Day of Teaching. October of the last calendar year, extended to the whole of Austria. “Teacher instead of emptiness” provides guidance and advice to young people during training and training firms in case of need. Fortunately, apprenticeship and apprenticeship coaching is supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Social Affairs and is a truly essential contribution to successful and high-quality training in Austria. Finally, as a representative from Lower Austria, I also want to lose a few words on tourism in my home region, the forest district. Tourism statistics can also be seen here in 2015. Never since there were records, so many guests have come to the Waldviertel as in the past year 2015. Some 320 000 arrivals last year mean a plus of 1.8 percent compared to the calendar year 2014. The number of appointments also increased with the arrivals. With nearly 1.2 million nights, the value of the previous year could easily be exceeded, and especially in the summer months of July, August and September there were very interesting increases throughout the nights. I think the diversity of the offer in the forest area in the areas of health, sport, cuisine and culture is crucial for these growths. That is why I think that the 2015 record of success in the area of tourism for tourism in the Federal Republic of Lower Austria, in my home region and in our Republic is motivating the future positive development. Finally, I can express my thanks and congratulations to the entire tourism industry for their perfect and excellent performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11656	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Tourism to take note of this report III-268 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this notice to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Kassinger, colleagues and colleagues on the adjustment of trade regulations to changing social conditions – legal certainty for restaurants and neighbours. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schellhorn, ladies and gentlemen, on Immission thresholds in the Industrial Code. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on the introduction of a quality partnership for local gastronomy companies. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This, in turn, is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:17:22]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy on the situation of youth employment and apprenticeship training in Austria 2014–2015 (III-266/1172 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11745	Now we come to the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11773	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! This item on the agenda is a very important issue not only for Austria, but also for our future. This is the report of the Minister responsible for apprenticeship training and youth employment in Austria. For my part, let me say: The dual training in Austria has been a success model for decades and is still a success model for many countries in the world, or – I am coming around the world a little bit – it is de facto an export hit of the Republic of Austria. So much for the good side of the medal. The less good side of the medal is the fact that we are also on the best way to lose this asset, i.e. this advantage, through the downtime, which has been in the Federal Government since 2006 in particular. How do I get on it? – Numbers rarely lie – it depends on who puts them together – but, let's say so, numbers do not lie. The figures are worrying. If we look at the figures of the development since 2008, it should be noted that the number of apprentices has fallen by more than 20 percent from 2008 to 2015, i.e. from 137 000 to 110 000 apprentices. Even more worrying is the fact that the number of teaching firms, i.e. those companies, who train apprentices, has fallen by more than 26 percent. We only have more than 29 000 teaching establishments in Austria, which are still falling. This is truly worrying; this trend, this development must now be stopped quickly and reversed. The fact that this is possible and these tasks are soluble proves, for example, that the Institute for Education Research and Economics says that in the years 2004 to 2008 a precisely opposite development was apparent that the number of apprenticeships and the number of apprentices had increased. The ibw suggests that this development has been achieved “by means of a variety of policy measures to promote apprenticeship training”. – Unfortunately, we don't see anything about that right now. What are the major tasks and problems? – First of all, this is the bad image of teaching, and second, it is the overregulation. We have an overregulation in many areas, including here. For example, it is to be asked why a roofing instructor can only be on the roof after a year – in the first year he must not be on the roof. That's what the least people understand. [[Call the SPÖ: Everyone understands that!]] - Everyone understands that? - Well, you understand. Third point: We have an over-company apprenticeship training that is anything but a success story. Here you have to look honestly into the mirror and observe: There millions are spent, although the success on the output page is very, very manageable. I'm just calling one number: The number of cancellations of apprenticeship training in the super-company apprenticeship training facilities is more than 40 percent, whereas in the occupational apprenticeship training, the proportion of trainees is 17 percent. In other words, this figure is more than twice as high in over-company apprenticeships. You can't talk about a success story! Fourth: We have nothing on the part of the government to offer what is going on in the direction of an efficient incentive system for companies. Fifth, you open a bottle The biggest problem that industry and all the firms that are supposed to train apprentices complain about is that, in the meantime, as far as the so-called basic skills, so-called reading, computing, writing, are concerned, we now have disastrous conditions. The Ministry of Education is also required. The figures are not lying either. We hear from the economy again and again that it is incredibly difficult to compensate for these disadvantages that have been built up in the school system. That means in the reverse: What to do? – First of all: The image of teaching needs to be improved. In general, it must be taught that teaching is a very, very attractive form of training, especially when compared to training at a higher general education school, with a very wide range. The teaching must be seen as an attractive form of training, also in combination with the various possibilities one has after a completed teaching. Training, Matura with teaching, technical education, all these are things that are possible. That's good, too. That's just communication. One must therefore significantly increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession in the context of campaigns. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] Overregulation is a permanent theme covering all areas. You have to look at this in detail and drive back overregulations. Once you have to give an honest opinion on the topic of over-company apprenticeship training and look at what is being used on input so to speak and what the output is. The position of the liberals is that this massively suppressed belongs to resources in favour of occupational apprenticeship training. The fourth point concerns cooperation and coordination with the classroom to guide things in the right direction in this large area of basic skills of reading, writing and computing. Last point: I do not see any financial incentives for businesses. On the topic of incentive systems, Mr Themessl will also do something, Mr Haubner will probably also. And now it's going to tear the Minister right away: Tag Blum-Bonus. This has already punctuated meaning and corresponding effects. I am now quoting the figures from 2004 to 2008. That makes sense, but you have to do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11814	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11836	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, asked me to welcome the women of the political class from Upper Austria to this House. I am very happy to do this! [[General condolences.]] – Thank you many times, but now I come to the topic of dual training. I think we agree on one point: Dual training is something quite, very important in Austria. Dual training is something that helps us to give young people a future. The international comparison also shows that, thanks to our dual training, we have a very low youth unemployment. It must also be noted that the dual training system in Austria also has its problems. These problems can be seen on the one hand as a result of demographic development. If we compare the figures, in 1980 we had about 130 000 15-year-olds, at present we have only 85 000 young people at this age. The competition for every 15-year-old has begun. This can be seen when you go to vocational information fairs, and this is also seen by what schools are doing in this area. We are therefore faced with increased competition. Nevertheless, we still have 30,000 teaching establishments. We should be very grateful to these teachers, because they are doing great work with young people and are training young people to be skilled people we urgently need in our country. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP, as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] If you look at the whole thing, you also have to say that the apprentices who are being trained have a safe job and that they Secondly, we can also continue to learn, because we have now also managed to make the system transparent, so that we can make and study the Matura after teaching. These are parameters that you can also say today that the image is better and you have better chances. I think it is very important that we have created good opportunities there. When we talk to the drop-out rates: The drop-out rate in teaching, in operation is the lowest in education at all, because if you compare it to other drop-out rates, you can see that the AHS' drop-out rate is over 25 percent, at the vocational schools at even more than 34 percent. Thus, we are very good with this 15 percent in the company's training. This means, first of all, that the teachers are doing a good job, second, that the apprentices in the firms feel very comfortable, namely in that there is a good partnership between the company and the apprentice. We certainly have a need for the over-company teaching workshops, but they should also be complementary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] They should not be used to do the complete training there, but they should actually lead to some basic skills being learned at the beginning and then transferred to operational training. We all know that there is probably a need for improvement. We also know that the people who have a training are very asked about the labour market, because if you look at the employment rate today, then you can find – and this has been a study in 2014 – that 46 percent of the job registrations in the newspapers are looking for people with graduations. It is also a good springboard into independence: 35 percent of the self-employed have a degree in education. So I think we can quite say that the image of teaching is certainly still to be attracted outside, but the teaching is the basis for a good career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11918	Mr Steinbichler is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11939	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Visitors on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, a short supplement to the previous point, tourism, is still permitted, since you have also reported yourself: With the registers you have to raise the limit to €30 000. I believe that this has the most difficult cases, in the free area where it is fun; that makes sense. It is very important, since today, in the early days, the Chancellor spoke about regionality: With us in the country, in Vöcklabruck we say: Like the food, so the movement. – Now we have the terrible example: The Austrian national team was approved with Jakobsmuscheln and a steak from the Uruguay beef – the result we saw yesterday. I am convinced and full of hope, as I am a full member of the national team, that a package of Austrian quality beef has already been sent away to Paris, so that we will come to the eighth finale. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Complementary of the Abg. Donate.]] Thank you. On the very essential topic of apprenticeship training: The previous speakers, Mr Haubner and Mr Kassager, have already mentioned very important facts. There's nothing to do with the numbers. We've got declines. I sincerely thank all the companies that are at all willing to train apprentices. That's not always easy. Let us think of the educational report: We have more and more difficulties with the follow-up. Similarly, it is here – you have mentioned it, Mr. Col. – with the drop-outs. We already have these facilities here with apprentice coaches, in which people sometimes come to a pool that is already far away from practice. We must be careful not to lose sight of the practice and, as has already been mentioned, to ensure that the apprentice is trained and trained in his teaching time in his profession – and is not tied up by loud regulations, loud bureaucracy and therefore replaced by a much cheaper assistant. I believe that this is an essential issue in practice. We need to see that we do not take pleasure in the profession from loud overregulations. Unfortunately, 264 establishments are no longer willing to train apprentices. And now, I believe, the very essential area that has been discussed yesterday and today in connection with the tourism report: The fatal consequences of the bleeding of rural areas are becoming increasingly apparent. It may be possible to bridge this in the short term. This begins – Mr. Kitzmüller is just upstairs – with family policy. Yes, there is already a lack of these children from these rural families, who were there because the family environment has adapted to give birth to more children. These were very important professionals, which was a potential for skilled workers – I come from Vöcklabruck district – for Lenzing AG, for Hatschek plants, for Spitz. There these young people have been trained, and they have had a good potential for powerful, successful young people. This is also missing from the farms. What is sometimes sold as a success, claiming that unemployment statistics are better, is nothing but the beautiful number, the result of these weak years that we now have. This is shown to be a success, but unfortunately these people are missing from the skilled. We've seen it: In tourism, 7 000 professionals are sought. Every entrepreneur, every large small and medium-sized enterprise, but also the industry, laments that they no longer receive skilled workers. I think these are the results, and you have to act there. It's also about purchasing power. This is also very important and is missing in rural areas, for: Where do the families invest? Where are these apprentices? – If they reinvest this money they have earned in the businesses regionally on-site, if you use these mentioned potentials from rural areas via family policy and purchasing power, if you put the blood or motor oil back into this gear, then it will work better again. First, it starts to stutter. I believe that this is another great opportunity for Austria to play an international role as a pioneer, for Austria to stand as a model example and say: There are functioning units, there are values that are recognized and which are also reflected in positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e11993	Next, Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12014	Mr President. Federal Minister and Deputy Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear SPÖ women from Amstetten, also you beautiful greetings! I'm glad you're here. [[General condolences.]] Today, we have the opportunity – and I have to agree with Mr Kassager on the other hand – to deal with a real success, namely our dual training. It's really an export hit, considering how many international guests have come to us alone in the last few months and years to look at: Why are you doing so well in Austria? Among other things, the French Prime Minister and the Chilean President Bachelet were there – there we were extra in the Mollardgasse to look at that. I was only a few days ago for the Chamber of Commerce in Thailand, where the government wanted to know exactly: How do you do it that you have such a good education? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Of course, the joke is that our opportunities are linked to high quality in the area of the export-oriented part of the Austrian economy, which is also provided by the employees working there. A story that's been a few years ago, but it's significant: I was in Weiz at the time, where these high-voltage transformers are manufactured. I went with an American into this so-called Sahara, where they dry the wood parts. I asked what it was like. He said there are very few places in the world where such transformers are made, one of them is Austria. If there was once a sun wind, there would be a problem with the production of new. I asked: Why don't you do this in America? This is what this top quality manager of the American Group tells me: Because we're not. I ask: Why? He says: Quite simply, the man over there, the foreman, decides with each component whether it is dried, newly ground, carved, installed or not. There in America, on the other hand, they needed an eight-member diploma engineering commission, which takes three days for the decision. This is true quality of our employees we have in the country. This asset is the success of the Austrian economy. We will be able to stand so well in Industry 4.0 because we have it. But the problems are also clear, ladies and gentlemen: There is a say in the matter of drivers who no longer want to train themselves and who will then, as far as possible, be trained in SMEs. And there is also a second danger that I would like to write to all the liberalists in the main book. [[Call the NEOS:Yes, here!]] - Yes, for example. The Thai countries asked us: How are you doing? That's what I said: A training course has a value with us. Because if you learn your craft, you are entitled to practice it with this qualification – and not everyone. And your demands when you say: If anyone can do anyway, the market is to judge!, only means that the legislator says: The training is not worth it. [[Abg. Schellhorn: That's where I come back!]] There is therefore a need for great caution in this area. Carefully consider whether this is the access barrier! Because one who can't, doesn't need to start. I don't need to wait until it fails in the market until the consumer comes in, I don't have to wait for all that! Whoever can do it should do it; whoever can't do it doesn't have to do it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To drive, we need a driver's license, Mr. Schellhorn. Even here we won't say: Then he should just go into the wall!, but will check him before and see if he can. We have the system in part for over a thousand years, and we do not need NEOS to get a situation like in the Anglo-Saxon area, where Polish friends are needed to settle there to find an installer. I don't want to experience that. Therefore: Great care in this area! We don't want to destroy the quality. We stand by our education, we have great people in this area and we do not let them dequalify – even from you, Mr Schellhorn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12079	I call Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12101	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to say: If we discuss this report on youth employment and apprenticeship training next year, I would suggest that you take up the teaching committee. Many of the problems listed here and also addressed are starting in school. We are faced with the situation that more and more school leavers are unable to read, write, let alone control the basic accounting methods. How, then, should a person be able to start this success model of dual teaching at all if he does not bring these conditions? For this reason, my proposal would be to discuss this at the same time in both committees in the future. This is an approach so that something may change. [[We welcome the FPÖ and Mr Lichtenecker and Mr Walser.]] A few things are interesting: Both Mr Haubner and Mr Matznetter stand out here and say what a success model is the dual education, export miners and, and, and. It is perfectly right for them to give. This discussion has prompted Mr Kassager. What surprises me, however, is the fact that you then treat this dual education so profoundly, especially when I think about what has changed negatively since 2008. I will bring a few more numbers later, and you will then understand why and why I say that. Even with the training guarantee currently under discussion or in implementation up to 18 years of age, with the ÜLAs and ÜAZ – and as all this means – continue to support this state training, but know very well that since the success rate is extremely modest, I say carefully. You know that. More than 40 percent break-out, the drop-out quota is huge, the costs that these ÜLAs cause are exorbitant – even the union recognized three or four years ago, that has recognized the Chamber of Commerce, that has recognized the industrial association – and yet you stick hard to this system. It is, for example, in Your draft for training up to 18 years with no single word mentions that you can only create incentive systems anywhere, so that businesses can take on additional apprentices again or for the first time at all an apprentice, which can, of course, also provide valuable services in the enterprises later on. Now I'm coming back to a few numbers. Between 2008 and 2015, the number of occupational apprenticeships decreased by 21.5 percent. And if you say, Mr Haubner, that is also related to demographic development, then you are not wrong. It is not clear, however, that demographic development would be much less than the loss of occupational apprenticeships over the past seven years. The number of apprenticeships is only in the last year, from 31. May 2015 to 31. May 2016, down by 5 percent. So this too is absolutely unexplainable with demographic development. You know very well that only the reintroduction of the Blum bonus can improve this situation. But I know you roll with your eyes again when I only mention the word “Blum-Bonus”. I do not understand why you do not like Mr Blum, Mr Blum comes from your party, and that was a success model in the years 2004 to 2008. All this has happened since you just turned off the successful Blum bonus in 2008. They have replaced it with these sick ÜLAs, which are already important in sub-areas, because there will always be people we have to catch up in the social network, but they have built it up in such a way that, in the meantime, it can hardly be financed. They do not even officially disclose the costs. It costs a fortune! You know very well that these ÜLAs have only served in recent years to push youth unemployment into statistics. You know that in Austria we have a youth unemployment, which is perhaps lower than other European countries, but still exorbitantly high. The interesting thing about these comparisons is that you do not compare youth unemployment, in general unemployment with our neighbouring countries Switzerland and Liechtenstein at all, because there it is not even half that high. And there we're talking about effective numbers, there's nothing hidden there, so it doesn't appear in statistics anymore. [[Abg. Matznetter: They're much smaller!]] –Yes, Switzerland has about as many inhabitants as Austria if you wish, Mr. Matznetter. So much about geography. [[Abg. Matznetter: I'm talking about Liechtenstein!]] Then I'll tell you some more recent figures from last year. The state government in Vorarlberg started two, three years ago, using the inputs of Mr Egon Blum – which you do not like. And see! If you look at the number of teaching places in the Federal Republic of Austria, you will find the following: Last year, there were 4,134 school leavers in Vorarlberg, of which 2,021 started an occupational teaching. 49 percent of all school leavers have started an occupational teaching. This is by far the highest value in all of Austria. But if you are now taking Vienna – where the ÜLAs are in exorbitant numbers and also cost a lot of money – then 15 489 school leavers say and 3 800 write a business lesson. That's 24.2 percent. Mr Federal Minister, since you are always saying that we are just criticising, we are never making any proposals, I would like to end by saying a few things that you should necessarily address: They should create a financial incentive system to stimulate farms to train apprentices. This does not cost even a third of what you cost the ÜLAs, and is guaranteed success. They should draw up measures with the teaching centre, which will enable the mastery of basic skills with the end of compulsory schooling and thus increase the opportunities of young people in the apprenticeship market, and reduce over-company, very cost-intensive apprenticeship training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12158	Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12180	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As an ad hoc preface, I would like to say something about over-company training, although I hope that colleagues from SPÖ, who will talk later, may also clarify something to this effect. What do over-company training facilities do? – They offer young people who do not get this opportunity from companies the opportunity to make a vocational training. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] I think that's a very, very important function. Which young people are these? – These are young people who may need increased funding at the moment, need more care than other young people. Yeah, that'll cost. It'll cost you something. But I think these young people must be worth it to us too. And yes, some of them are still unable to complete their training in this way, so there are drop-outs. But you must also be honest: The aim of the OCTA is – and this goal is also achieved very often – that, at the end of the day, a company takes over a youth from an OCTA. And that's what's added to the drop-out numbers. So please be honest! In principle, these are young young people who are particularly eligible for funding, and I think that we must spend money on them. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Now to the apprenticeship report. [[Abg. Themessl: Why, you have to explain to us! Why so much?- Oh, my God!]] – I am with you that, of course, we have a problem with our school system and that this is the key to many problems in the labour market, both in vocational training and in the labour market. No question! We Greens are certainly not on the brake when it comes to education reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Calls and calls between MEPs Matznetter and Themessl.]] To the apprenticeship report: Yes, we hear again and again – and I share this assessment – from the basic concept that dual training is certainly a success model. Mr Haubner also admitted: Yes, there is a need for reform, there is always a need for adaptation. Whatever we hear is the biggest problem is the image problem. And in the fight for the better image, all parties are always in it quickly. So, and what happens in the relevant Economic Committee if it is to discuss apprentices and dual training? [[Abg. Matznetter: I make the request!]] . Right, then there is Mr Matznetter's request that this report should also be discussed in plenary. Great! We welcome this initiative. It is important that we deal with dual training here as well. But, what else does he want? . He wants us not to talk about it in committee. Not at all! And why? - To save time. Mr Matznetter felt that the discussion on the situation and situation of teaching was a wasteful time in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is not a good approach when it comes to lifting the image of teaching and apprentices. But the thing goes on: Despite its massive verbal protests during my remarks, it is nevertheless my concern to address the individual points of the report, and indeed critical comments contained in this report. I would like to ask the Minister and Vice-Cancecian Mitterlehner how he stands on several of these points, for example on the suggestions in the report on page 45, where it is about optimizing the support system, where there is a need to improve the systematisation of the objectives of the individual funding measures, that there should be a sharp separation in the designation of measures and objectives, that indicator-based monitoring would be useful for effective control. Finally, these recommendations mean that there is no such system at present. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is quite a problem if we have a support system that has no clear objectives where the purpose of promoting is blurred, where the impact of the support is not evaluated, there is no monitoring. Do you think that we should perhaps talk more about this in committee? - I do. I also asked the Minister if there was empirical data on why companies actually stopped training apprentices. We know it's getting less and less, but I think it takes a clear study that says what specific points are in order to know where to start. I can't answer that either. I would have liked to know how the quality-enhancing and quality assurance measures we decided in 2015. These measures are currently being designed as an offer to companies, and this offer is hardly perceived by the companies. Do we have a problem? – I say: Yes. So, ladies and gentlemen, all these questions remained open in the committee. And why? – Because the Minister said it was almost an advantage that I assumed that he had an answer. He wants or cannot answer these questions as Minister responsible. I think that's not the way we should deal with the issue of dual training. I think we need an intensive and committed debate on this issue. Yes, it's a good model, but we have changed framework conditions. The adjustment must proceed quickly. Yeah, she's already started, but we need a lot more here. I think we all have many proposals, both the parties here in the house and the social partners and experts. I do not want the debate to be further refused. I think the young people deserve to make sure that they get an optimal training even in the businesses. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12254	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12277	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schellhorn, you were a step too fast. [[Abg. Schellhorn was already on his way to the speaker's desk]] Youth employment and apprenticeship training in Austria: We've heard that dual education is very important. That's true, but I think it's also important that we thank all the companies that are willing to train apprentices at all. The teaching profession as a whole belongs to the value, of the value, of the consideration, massively raised. Rooms, carpenters, masons, cooks, cooks and many more are very important teaching professions in our society. In the future, one must pay close attention to the value and importance of the teaching profession. As regards youth unemployment, it was 10.6 percent in Austria in 2015, significantly below the EU average of 20.3 percent. Yes, that's right, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. However, the development of youth unemployment is also very worrying: It has been falling across the EU since 2013, and in Austria youth unemployment has been increasing steadily since 2011. That is why I think we have to put an urgent stop to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12310	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12332	Mr President. Estimated Minister! It's rare, but I'm totally committed to the colleague treasure now: They have also mentioned the lack of education, and this also concerns large enterprises. Mr Eder of the Voest said that the first year young people must first be trained in reading and writing and in basic accounting. That's right. This is why it is also important to have over-company training and training. And those who can't afford to do it in this size must stop by it, because that's important. But all the discussions are lip confessions: In my home district of Pongau there are 300 open teaching places and only 30 seekers. Why is that so? We have always discriminated against the apprentices over the last 20, 30 years. This starts with the fact that the others have a free access to study, and – the patron saint of the preventers, Mr. Matznetter, will also be obliged to me – even a master's exam costs something. And what, for example, is now costing a degree in this form? And the graduate can then immediately also practice the profession. This is where clear discrimination takes place, including in the area of free movement of students, in the whole area. You really have to say that, and that is not part of this discussion. That hurts me. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: You can discuss this!]] – You need to discuss this when you look at the manko. And that's why teaching is so unattractive, because from 15th century onwards. A year of life is less favourable to those who attend a higher school or then a university. In my opinion, Mr Haubner, that everything is great anyway, something has gone down to me: We don't have a job shortage, but we have a lack of apprenticeship. And we have at the same time to the 7 000 unaccompanied minors in Austria. There's no program here. There is also no social partners' programme here. These are people who have the potential or the opportunity to attend a teaching. No offer is made to them. They are seven, eight, ten, twelve months here in Austria before they have the right status, and they will not be told what they can do today so that they will not be the unemployed of the future tomorrow. That's a shame. This increases this potential and this problem that we have in terms of integration and immigration. Here we have a real deficit and here there is a need for rethinking. And I remember the President of the Chamber of Economics, Leitl, who spoke in August 2015 about the need to do something here and the need to set up a programme. Nothing has happened to this day. It is likely that the social partners generally have a problem when someone comes from outside and makes proposals to them. This will be prevented, just as the proposed reform of the trade regulation is prevented, Mr Matznetter. And you, as Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce, cannot hide that you are the patron saint of the preventers. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In this respect, we should bear in mind that the economy urgently needs professionals. The shortage of skilled workers is increasing, that's what every entrepreneur tells you. You need professional staff. We don't find any more because we don't find any apprentices either. And it's something else, whether I'm in the city of Vienna or in the district of Pongau. But in the district of Pongau it is so that we have 300 open teaching places and only 30 seekers. Now guess why this is so! There should be counter-taxes, and the social partners are asked to do something about it. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12383	Mr Vice-Kanzler Dr Mitterlehner came forward with an opinion. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12405	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We discussed intensively in the relevant Economic Committee – in my opinion – the subject matter, despite already claimed time, concerning other issues, and discussed the report and the results. I would like to put aside some of the facts or hope to be able to put that out of dispute. We still have what the system is going on, I would say, great effectiveness, because 38 percent of all young people are pursuing a teaching. In principle, this value remains constant, as we can also see what demographic development is going on, that overall, of course, a trend is taking place downwards, so fewer young people are available in this age range. This has been mentioned several times. On the other hand, what is happening to youth unemployment is still – I also say, the “still” is a value that we must constantly work out – with 10.6 percent behind Germany, positively, in second place. The EU-28 section in this context is 20.3 percent. So the system works in principle. The system also contributes to our low youth unemployment, and if we are in competition with other trainings, especially in the school sector, it is necessary that we reduce the drop-out quotas as much as possible to meet the needs of apprentices in the business sector. Positive in the context is certainly to see that the teaching has the lowest drop-out ratio with a total of 15.5 percent compared to other trainings. In business teaching, it is even 13.1 percent. In comparison, the For example, the AHS upper level is a drop-out quota of 25.2 percent, the BHS of 34.2 percent and the BMS of 49 percent. In the final effect, this means that operational training works and the trend in the business sector is going to be what the drop-out quotas reach, even down. In other words, the measures we have in implementation, which we have achieved, are also effective. We also have an increase in the success rate in the final audit, not only in general, but also in what the awards are coming. Therefore, the argument that the doctrine had no status, no image, is not correct. We see increasing quality, which also reaches EuroSkills and WorldSkills and so on. As far as the total drop-out ratio is concerned, of course, we already have a problem, which has been articulated several times here, namely the difference in comparison to the over-company training facilities. In the field of OCTA, the drop-out ratio is 43.5 percent. Now you have to be careful not to draw the wrong conclusions. Logically, the OCTA cannot replace the operational teaching. On the other hand, you also have to say that this is of course also a different system. I think you're comparing apples to pears. We have precisely seen in the phase of the economic crisis that it is very, very important for those who do not find a place of training to offer something better than just sitting at home or even standing on the street. Of course, the choice option is a different one than if you can perceive your job, and of course you have higher costs there and a higher drop-out quota. However, we must do everything we can to allow for the transition to occupational training first – there are also appropriate incentives, which works increasingly better. On the other hand, we also need to see that we increase the quality there as much as possible in order to reduce this quota overall. However, I believe that the combination of both elements contributes to the fact that we are better off than other countries just what is happening to unemployment. It has also been discussed in the Committee on Tourism. There, too, we have a specific situation, where we have a drop-out quota of 24 percent, higher than average for apprentices, for operational training. There we also have a positive trend: It is not quite 2% better than in the previous year. The reason is – there are detailed analyses – that there is a particular challenge to those who are trained, both at work and in training. They feel that there and there the service, including what happens at night, is more intense and demanding than if they are in another area. The question now is: Where do we put if we want more efficiency? – Of course, in case of a problem analysis. We look at the data, where there are particularly many demolitions and problems and what we can do to improve them accordingly. There is quality management, which is what we have discussed intensively in the Committee. We have now also provided for the possibilities in the law. This makes the national vocational training councils relatively systematic, they are in contact with the companies and the business representatives and they create targeted support services. What could that be? – This may be courses and training aids, but of course also the measures concerning coaching. These measures are, however, relatively expensive. We have also made available funds for tourism in particular. This applies in particular to the establishment of apprenticeship coaching for the new areas, such as hotel merchant or hotel merchant, because there are It is important to also implement tailor-made projects – for example the project: successful in the course of teaching in the tourism sector. We also have in some areas an electronic training tool for firms and also support in the form of training support apps for apprentices. This is a lot, and because it has been criticized, there are no measures to be taken: That's not true! As far as Mr Blum is concerned: This call has a very long beard. I don't know how long he's been in retirement. I like him, the Egon Blum, yet his apprenticeship promotion is no longer the subject of today. I am really saying for the last time that I will not say anything about this, Mr Themessl: The problem with the Blum-Bonus is that at a time when we were unable to accommodate the apprentices, he was geared towards encouraging businesses with promotions to include in addition to the apprentices they had on average. Now we partially do not reach the cut because the apprentices are not available. The flower bonus is therefore not suitable for the present problem. Not Mr Blum is not suitable – we all like them, and he has taken great action at the time – but the measure is no longer necessary because of the change in the problem. Now I would also like to come to Mrs Schatz's remarks very specifically. Mrs Schatz, it was an incorrect presentation that you gave here; I do not mean now in relation to Mr Matznetter. I also think that we have the subject in plenary just to discuss it intensively. When I look at the statements, I notice that they are basically duplicates. It has partly been said by the speakers exactly the same as in the Committee. I would like to see what you have said and to answer in a different way. They have asked questions that can be answered simply because of the report and otherwise not immediately, such as the different drop-out quotas in the various industries and the reasons for them. We have told you that we will answer in writing – and I believe we have even done so. The other questions you have asked, for example, on the suggestions and proposals for measures on page 45 of the report, I could answer salopp with a sentence – but I did not do so – namely: Of course, we look at all the measures and proposals, consider the implementation in coordination with the competent authorities and try to realize most of them in this way. That's it. We can stand here a hundred more times and read out all the demands in this context, it does not change it. I can also present it to you in detail, as we have answered the questions you have asked in writing. On the other hand: What is shown on page 45, for example, to coordinate and systemate the types of support, is a pagan task. If you want, I'll show you in one hour what's being developed. I'd like to save you time today. Another point in this context is, of course, the continuation of the measures to prevent the demolition, which I have presented to you, namely online forms and some other things. That is what I am going to get to the fundamental criticism of Mr Schellhorn. - I don't see him, he's not in the hall right now. Then I'll save myself from doing all this in width. and just tell you, in the final effect, it is simply not true that there is a disparity between the treatment that the apprentices are disadvantaged or scandalous. If you look at what we're doing in basic funding, what we're doing in other funding, including labour market services, in the whole area, then you'll notice, that's about €300 million a year. I would say that there is no more inequality in treatment with the system school, because we have geared our apprentice compensation and everything that comes to basic funding exactly to what a student or a student gets in support. The fact that we have travel aid and others, I do not want to bother you any more, perhaps you know it. If you don't want to know, you won't read it either; but it's just not true what's been said. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12511	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12532	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! A classic paradox: If you talk to entrepreneurs, you will hear the message: I find no or insufficiently well educated apprentices! On the other hand, we have thousands of young people in Austria looking for an apprenticeship and finding none. I think it's a little surprising when red and black come up here on this subject and sell dual training as an export hit. Maybe just a moment to remember: In the further sense one can go back to the Middle Ages and in the nearer sense about 150 years. For so long, there is this dual training in Central Europe, speaking in Austria and Germany. This, please, does not need to hang around SPÖ and ÖVP as their invention. On the contrary, you have brought it together – and that is the result of this paradox – that the dual training from year to year comes more to mind. I would also like to mention a few more figures. If you are currently looking at unemployment statistics, there is a group where we are not experiencing an increase in unemployment, and these are people with education. On the other hand, at academics we have a monthly increase of between 10 and 15 percent, depending on the month. We are here on the real problem, and it would be very good if the former Minister Heinisch-Hosek were here, because she is a major cause of the current apprenticeship problem, because, of course, school education has failed for decades. The main culprits are SPÖ and ÖVP, and you do not at present think of changing that at all. They want to see the world with the help of the Greens who live in the area even in a dream world. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] The reality is just – and there you don't need to make long analyses, Mrs. Honey – that 25 percent of students in Austria, and you know that if you want to read it somewhere, after nine years are actually illiterate. So, Mrs. Honey, this is our school policy, and school policy is left, red-green, with the help of the ÖVP. That's the result after decades! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] But they do not assume responsibility for these tens of thousands of poor young people. Nobody's doing it here! Nobody says: Okay, we thought that well, well meant, but we met it wrong. You continue the program every year. They act according to the motto: Eyes to and through, will somehow go well! [[New call of the abg. Honey.]] But you should note the reality that our school system – and this is not a free school system – fails to harm young people and, of course, to the detriment of Austria's economic location. They will see exactly these things in every analysis of the Chamber of Commerce for education, but no one stands here and says: Okay, the school system, the way we have it, fails, completely! At this point on the similar topic academic ratio: I remember the last 20 years there has always been the high goal: We must increase the academic rate in Austria! We're too far behind internationally, academic rate, academic rate! – It is quite clear that the teaching is coming to mind. I was 14 days ago with my colleagues from the other groups in Greece. Greece has a youth unemployment of almost 60 percent, and guess how high the academic rate is in Greece. No one will know this except those colleagues who were there: It's 50 percent. And there the parliamentarians in Greece say they are so proud of their school system, because they have an academic rate of 50 percent. We in Austria – and currently also in 2016 – continue the same course, red-black-green. Of course, there is rightly criticism of NEOS, the teaching of course has an image problem, quite clearly. They have to pay for the Master's Letter, they have fewer discounts on free trips, and in general almost everyone in Austria clearly tries to accommodate his child after the elementary school somewhere in the gymnasium. In the final effect, we have a shortage of skilled workers today, and in reality we also have major problems in apprenticeship training every year. On the other hand, academics are growing monthly in unemployment statistics. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Have your children completed apprenticeship training?]] – Mr Vice-Chancellor, I have done just as many other Austrians have done, my children have also been grateful to God. In fact, Mr Vice-Chancellor, this is a development we have had over the last 20, 30 years. On the one hand, what we, as a liberal, are very likely to point out again and again is that apprenticeship training really needs to be supported, on the one hand, in the field of image, but also in the area of support for businesses with real money, and on the other hand, it needs a complete restart of the education system in Austria. The last point that the Greens have also made in the best way: asylum seekers and adolescents entitled to asylum. We have a thousand of that in Austria. We have asked ex-minister dog-torfers – that is history again – several times and have also received a request answer. I'm trying to make it very short: Since 2012, 241 persons in the asylum field have experienced this possibility, 130 of them have cancelled within one year, and currently 107 people are still in training. At the time of the Committee, the Minister could not call us a single case in the field of asylum, where there was a degree, not one! So much to the hopes of the Greens that these 7,000 unaccompanied male young people will solve our apprenticeship problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12587	Next come Mrs. Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12610	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dual training is still a guarantee for youth employment in Austria, and I am therefore particularly grateful to our entrepreneurs who offer apprenticeship training in their businesses. I know from my own experience that this is a special responsibility and a special task. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Dual training is facing major challenges. We have already heard of the demographic development, the increasing qualitative requirements due to internationalization and digitization in our companies versus the suitability of job seekers. Mr Schellhorn mentioned the regional differences between the supply of training and demand, but also the increasing class struggle, combined with lack of appreciation for entrepreneurs, does not increase motivation for investment and for additional employment. However, as the report points out, together with Mr Vice-Chancellor, we have put in place important and appropriate measures to further develop dual training. I mention only the BAG-Novelle with the 18 new or revised training regulations as well as the four new teaching professions which entered into force at the request of the economy. But also apprentice coaching, in which more than 150 companies participate, guarantees youth training in the first labour market and prevents them from being transferred to the more expensive OCTs. I consider this apprentice coaching to be weaker, but also very useful for migrants. Migrants do not know this education system from their countries, and I think that integration can only work through employment. On the question of the social importance of teaching, we have recently decided on the National Qualifications Framework, which at last creates comparability with the purely school system, which will certainly lead to an appreciation. Mr. Themessl, I have already expected you to mention the Blum bonus. I don't think that's true anymore, because it's a joke for the entrepreneurs who've been looking for apprentices and not getting them for ten years. However, I am right to give you the right to finance the Blum bonus, which would make sense to finance it, not from employers' contributions, but from the resources of active labour market policy. We still have much ahead of us – we have heard it – on the one hand, Matura with shortened teaching, on the other, the achievement of the education standards for entry into teaching. This must also be the top priority in the new secondary schools, because without employment, the social situation is pre-programmed. Mr Vice-Kanzler, I would like to thank you on behalf of a number of Upper Austrian companies for the BAG-Novelle directive. ==References== In September in Oberösterreich a model project, namely the two-year apprenticeship Metalltechniker, a teaching profession with a degree and connection, will be started. I am convinced that this model project will be a success. We see in Germany, in Switzerland and especially in terms of compulsory training until 18. Year of life, which we will soon decide that this is a very important factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12651	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12674	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! What does youth unemployment mean? In general, it is understood as a lack of employment opportunities for young people – but for me personally it means much more. Mr Wurm, if you had given ear and attention to the comments of our Vice-Chancellor, you would know why the number of apprentices has fallen. Then you wouldn't have to stand out here and shine with falsehoods. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Peter Worm: Please? What?]] For me, youth unemployment means much more. Youth unemployment, first of all, means a social unemployment, a striking wound in the system, that young people have been taken the perspective of getting a place in society. Secondly, Every unemployment means a loss of purchasing power, which we in turn feel in the economy, not directly, but in the near future. And thirdly, it is a big social problem, because – you can now see indirectly or directly – there is, for example, the increasing rate of crime. That is why over-company training is so important. Yes, it costs money, but we, as social democrats and social democrats, are in favour, because that is what young people are worth to us. It's about people, Mr Themessl – unfortunately he's not in space right now, I think – it's about people and not about any percentages! If you take the generation contract seriously, youth unemployment must declare the fight. If we are talking about youth unemployment here in Parliament today, we can bring good news to the Austrians, we are in the forefront of employment, as we have already heard. We have one of the lowest youth unemployment rates in the European Union in Austria, and in 2015 we had the second lowest unemployment rate of all Member States. Of course, we are under strong pressure, and we have to put a lot of measures to keep going. Above all, we have – often mentioned – dual apprenticeship training: quite, very important and a really great thing. We are also constantly trying to improve them, for example by supplementing the teaching with Matura, as we have already done. This also enabled us to increase the attractiveness of teaching enormously. I know from my own experience what it means to train an apprentice, and that this can often be very, very difficult. So we could certainly increase the attractiveness of teaching. I think a great spagate has succeeded in combining the best of two systems, from practice and from theory. I find two aspects particularly exciting and also very successful: first of all, that the regional differences can also be applied, thus allowing for a local specialization of teaching. Secondly, I would like to point out that this form of training is accompanied by coaching, with stages of teaching and consulting. I think that's very good. So we are talking about a very balanced model, which is also observed and taken over by other countries, but one must also say quite clearly: Austria has felt the consequences of the crisis. If you look into the southern region of Europe, you can see that these people have to fight under severe conditions, they have been very hard bited. Of course, this is not a reason to celebrate ourselves and only praise ourselves, but we must stay on the ball to fight youth unemployment. If our European partners are in a bad way, this also affects us in some way, especially as an export country. Above all, I think, cooperation with other European countries is necessary in order to restore a balance. That would be a big concern to me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12720	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12741	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is an exciting debate today. At the same time, it is important to take a closer look at the figures and in particular their backgrounds. Mr Sepp Schellhorn complained today that there are 300 open teaching places in his region and only 300 interested young people. [[Abg. Peter Worm: 30!]] We know that there are different sectors and, of course, an East-West gap. We have more teaching places in the West, especially in the tourism sector. Of course, the question also arises: What is the quality of these teaching institutions and how can they be supportive so that young people are more interested in them? It is also logical that young people in their families, in their circle of friends, are anchored in their region and that this does not allow for such a change in this form. At the same time, the fact is that we have 4 967 job seekers – as of May 2016 – and just once an offer of 3 222 open teaching places. Yes, there is a gap, and you can close this gap by starting to ask yourself: What is the reason for this, and how can one support companies to offer appropriate teaching places? Demographic development is one, the weak economy is another explanation of why there are fewer apprenticeships. At the same time, of course, it is also important to strengthen the basic education of young people. There is certainly also a contribution to the fact that there will be more apprenticeships. It is also important to offer training associations to facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises, to provide the appropriate teaching facilities to ensure the continuity of teaching. [[Abg. Shopf: Is there already! There's everywhere!]] – Yes, Walter, I’ll tell you – you’re also from the Mühlviertel: Look into the regions, talk to the smallest companies, they have the problems! They say: Yes, we would be ready, but there it needs those and the offers so that this is possible! However, we can also look at this in concrete terms at one company or another. Of course, it is also necessary to strengthen and provide the necessary support to the training institutions in this form. At the same time, there is a considerable number of apprenticeships. In the apprenticeship report, as he is now present, she is quoted with 15.5 percent. And yes, of course, this is a step in the right direction. It is also a matter of modernising the curriculum and vocational schools. This is long overdue, and it is also necessary to accompany apprentices in their apprenticeships in order to be able to communicate between employers and employees when problems arise. But above all, it will be a question of making these teaching institutions more attractive to young people, and that is also a question of appreciation and a question of payment. I'm convinced that it's long been time to raise the wages for apprentices in the first year of education. I'll tell you: If you pay a dental trainer 384 € gross or in the hairdressing industry 395 € or in the flower retailing shop 408 €, that is too little. First year of education: 500 €! This will certainly also contribute to the interest of young people in teaching. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the Agg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] But of course it is also a question of expressing appreciation, including what it is worth to the public. I believe that it is time, Minister Mitterlehner, to take over the boarding costs, when the boys are in vocational school, and not to stay with them, or to make the corresponding funding equal to those of the students. That is exactly what the appreciation expresses. Since numbers have already been mentioned today, what the public hand is spending on young people and what it is worth to you: The report shows that the public sector spends €5 745 on teaching per young person. In comparison: In the secondary and higher schools, there are €10 113. We see: There are many approaches. I experience this today in plenary as a differentiated and exciting discussion, which is the question: What measures can be taken further? The report also contains various proposals, and since you have offered today that there is a further debate on this, you can also put in place the further measures to actually improve and strengthen the quality for apprentices.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12800	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12822	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Mrs. Lichtenecker, if there is too little compensation for apprentices, and therefore you do not receive good apprentices: Indeed, businesses have already come to the idea that they are paying more than the collective contract is planned. There are a lot of companies that give their apprentices – especially if they do good – an apprenticeship compensation clearly above the collective contract. I think that's good and right. It has already been pointed out that we cannot separate the student debate from the educational debate. If our school system is such that 20 percent of graduates cannot read meaningfully after the compulsory schooling period that they do not control basic accounting methods, then the graduates naturally do not receive a teaching position because the companies need young people who have the conditions to exist in the vocational school and to be able to acquire professional qualifications in the teaching profession. If we find today that some young people in the labour market have a problem, then this is a problem of education and training. What the Federal Government considers to be a solution is an education requirement until 18. In this context, Mr Vice-Chancellor has already escaped the word "mandatory" and I have accepted this as a joyful promise, which shows the true intention: Finally, it is about forcing companies to take up young people, even though they are qualified from school. Do not bring cation with you. That is what I think is missing, because we are not going to continue with such quota solutions. Several previous speakers and also you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have already expressed their views on the promotions, and we come to a point where it has once again been exaggerated in Austria. There is: a basic funding for each apprentice after completion of the course; a promotion for apprentices over 18 years; the promotions for companies that take over an apprentice from over-company training – I think at all, as well as the over-company training cannot be if one has to further promote that someone is taken over from there –; promotions for apprentices with learning difficulties; promotion of preparation courses for the course examination; promotion of excellent and good success in the examination of courses; support for the training of trainers; promoting projects for more women in mostly male apprenticeships; Funding for an apprentice's internship abroad. I didn't list everything there is now, but as you can see, it's so many different fundings that a small and medium-sized company, and there the majority of the apprentices are trained that can't manage at all. They do not have the manpower, they do not have the departments involved in filling out application forms for days to retrieve all the funding that exists. They don't have the time, and of course they don't have the detailed knowledge about how this might have a big business. I suggest you: Get the funding salad together, make it easy, make it manageable, make the administration slim, and then maybe you can reach something too!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12870	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e12891	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am quite surprised that I was already quite prepared for Mr Loacker and I to go to the match again, but I have to give him right in many points that he has addressed. I think it's similar. The only thing where I would like to differentiate a little is the question of compulsory training, which, of course, is not a youth recruitment requirement. You know, we've had a youth recruitment law before, and I personally also think: Before young people stand on the street, you have to take appropriate measures. But there are over-company training facilities, there is now the training requirement, and I think that the Federal Government has taken the right steps. And we'll see how things take hold of the future. I believe that due to the debate so far, it is clear that there is a broad consensus, with the exception of the FPÖ, on the fact that dual training is a success model, which is to a great extent the quality and vocational training... [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Not careful, my colleague, is it?]] – Mr Wurm! Honestly, I told you before: Sign up for a word if you have something to say! They're always chatting in between, that's a style, that's not all right, that's not how you deal with each other! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] And then sit down and laugh! Maybe the cameras can capture it once. This is the discussion culture à la FPÖ. After servus, I can only say that! Mr. Worm, speak up if you trust! If you have something to say, please do it from the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Neubauer: But intermediate calls are already allowed!]] - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Cry in between, as much as you want, it's okay anyway! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm:... as a trade unionist you have to endure more!]] The FPÖ is here and says: Specialists are urgently needed, and the next speaker says: But of course you have to create incentives! – It is transparent and transparent what you want: They do not want those who need to train professionals to do so if there is no appropriate money and support for it. That's the true background, shrouded by the many beautiful words you have spoken, and I think that's exactly what you have to call by name. Mr Vice-Chancellor has done what is available in the field of support. Mr Loacker pointed out that this could be further developed, improved, bundled. Yes, for all of this we have to have, but if you are talking about promotions in vocational training, then you also have to attach them to criteria and benchmarks, and then I am in favour of defining certain things. Those who comply with this should also receive the promotions because it is a good support, and those who do not comply should not get it, because it cannot be that you simply put money into a training that does not guarantee the quality. We need more places for apprentices, we need more quality in vocational training, and we must continue to work on the fact that apprentices are not cheap assistants, but are also trained in a high quality way.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13014	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13035	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very, very interesting and at the same time important discussion, because I think that the young people, the apprentices, should ultimately be our future. And it is very exciting to follow that there is a party here – young people and apprentices in Austria, watch out: it is the Freedom Party! – who wants to go back to over-company teaching workshops and eventually close them. Ladies and gentlemen. We currently have more than 11 000 people affected, 11 000 young people who are disadvantaged, who until recently had no opportunity to obtain a job or teaching place in this Republic, because many farms no longer offer such apprenticeships. We have 11 000 young people, where the Freedom Party says these 11 000 are not allowed to receive training in these over-company teaching workshops. [[Abg. Kassinger: You said that!]] . You said, Mr Kassager, it would be reasonable to close the over-company teaching workshops. This means that 11 000 young people will not be able to take such training in the future in this Republic. [[Abg. Kassinger: No one said that! We have said that we are going back in favour of operational training! Don't tell me...!]] Ladies and gentlemen. Let me go to one farm: Youth at the work in Vienna, where about 1,500 young people are currently being trained. There's a top training there. There, 90 percent of apprentices take a positive examination and the clear majority is also taught after this training. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] These are training measures to which we can only say: That's all right, that's important and that's right. And I hope that these measures will continue to exist in the future. If some here think that there is too little attractiveness in the field of teaching: That's right. I say: In particular, businesses are required to offer attractive jobs for young people, attractive apprenticeships. Why is there the situation that the Voest in Linz does not apply for 150 or 200 young people per year, but 500, 600, 700 and 800 young people every year? Why is it so at MAN in Steyr, at BMW in Steyr, at the ÖBB? Hundreds of people are planning to get an apprenticeship there and to complete a training course. Why are there sectors and regions in Austria where this is not the case? – If you look at the report and above all at some studies and studies, you know why this is the case: Because the conditions in these establishments are relatively problematic by young people not experiencing training, as the law dictates, by forcing young people to take overtime to an extent that is anything but human, and very often these overtimes are not paid and so on. From the report of the Labour Inspectorate alone, I could now tell you a lot about what is happening in these companies, and that is why there are difficulties. Therefore, I think we need more attractive businesses, because these companies have no problems getting apprentices in the future either. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address an area that seems to me to be important in this report, namely the issue of job breaks. This is also a topic that needs to be looked at very carefully in the future – there are huge differences among the sectors. If you look at the banks, the insurance companies and, above all, the industry, you know that there is a break-down rate of only 2 to 5 percent. However, if you look at the area of tourism and the leisure industry, the demolition rate there is almost 25 percent. In other words, there are huge differences among the industries. If one reads the apprenticeship monitor of the Austrian trade union youth – for which 6 500 young people have been surveyed across all sectors – then it is also noted here that especially the young people from these sectors indicate that the conditions in these companies are unfortunately very bad. My consideration and my request go: I think it would also be useful in future to extend this report, especially with the apprenticeship monitor of the Austrian trade union youth. It will then last by 20, 25 pages, but it is important, because I think it is crucial that the young people concerned, the apprentices concerned in this report, also speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13091	The next item is Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13113	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see an area of youth. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the age of digitization, already all social classes and, of course, the most diverse professional sectors are affected. This means that previously known professions will disappear in the coming years, for which new professional groups will be created. Of course, we must also respond to this in training and youth employment, because the digital world must already find its place in education. Austrian start-ups such as runtastic, Shpock, Kiweno, but also NUMBER26 have already shown us impressively how quickly the field of work can change and new careers arise. But they have also shown us that young people in particular are becoming increasingly self-employed and start-ups and are also recruiting very young employees. This also presents us with new challenges in the field of youth employment. I would just like to add in terms of the subject areas in which we need to change or adapt the framework conditions on the part of policy, or also to need solutions. It certainly needs new employee participation models. However, the start-ups are also a risk area, and therefore the failure of politics and social security must be discussed. We need a private insolvency right that opens up a second chance. In the area of financing – public and private – new incentive models are needed; the support of start-ups from the founding phase to the expansion phase, especially for young people. Key words: Training, further training, AMS initiatives, even here, needs new approaches. In the case of business start-ups, the processes need to be simplified and the costs reduced, not to mention also the problems of bureaucracy by public authorities, trade regulations, legal fees. And, of course, we also need to encourage more women to make themselves independent and start businesses. These are just a few points that we – certainly also together with the start-ups – have to address. I also say quite openly here that, of course, the start-ups will also have to be accepted, that we cannot adapt everything as they imagine it. But we will also communicate this openly, honestly and transparently to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13155	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13176	Mr President. Federal Minister! I should like to speak again on this subject because what Mr Schopf has given us for the best is not something that can be resisted. Their claim that, as a liberal, we want to close the over-company apprenticeship training places and thus stand 11,000 apprentices on the street is simply wrong, causes panic among apprentices and does not match our position. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] And if you blame us for a lack of conversational culture, I have to tell you that this is not a great conversational culture for your part. I really have to find out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The truth is that the SPÖ policy has created framework conditions in recent decades, with which we now have to deal, especially in the apprenticeship sector, which is the kind of framework – it has already been mentioned – that 25 percent of students or school leavers are not reading properly, not being able to write properly and cannot count properly. That's your responsibility. And of course this has an impact on the apprenticeship situation. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] The second point: In recent years and decades, they have also created framework conditions by which it is simply no longer attractive enough for businesses to take in apprentices. Just a simple example of your 11 000 young people who are now supposed to be on the road – I note once again, this is a false claim –: If we only look at the number of apprenticeships, i.e. the firms that train apprentices, it has fallen from 40 000 to about 29 000. If we had succeeded in receiving these 40 000 and each company had only one apprentice, we would not have the whole problem of over-company apprenticeship training. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That means you don't solve any problems, you'll get the troubles, and then you'll be doctors for expensive money around. To clarify: We're talking about 180 million, 200 million €! That's the point. So you're creating the problems. We all know very well that this is a specific problem – Mr Haubner will confirm it – especially the city of Vienna. I ask you: Who has been in power in Vienna for centuries? – These are not the liberals, but they are you!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13246	The next item is the speech by Mr Kirchgatter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13267	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is possible for the liberals to disprove a success model at the expense of the youth; at the expense of the youth, for whom the entry into the profession – as it was for us at the time when we were at this age – is quite crucial. The entry into the profession is a major change, and I am therefore glad that this is discussed in the public, that there are different viewpoints and that the listeners and spectators can express their views. For us as social democrats, it is crucial that we always achieve further improvements for the teaching, for the dual education system. Part of the improvement is the first step in the appreciation of the technical work, of those who enter the teaching, but then above all – secondly – the steps that have been taken and which have proved themselves in practice, namely, teaching and matura. Thirdly, the technical colleges: There are technical colleges, there is a third of students from the dual system, from the apprenticeship area. Fourth, I can mention that there is the international exchange of apprentices, foreign internships for apprentices in various sectors and sectors. This also strengthens the apprentices, and they see and learn abroad that training in our country is one of the best. One must mention, one may mention, in the discussion on the entry into the profession, also the high number of Austrians, who already at this young age in their occupations medals, gold medals in the career growth bet. Werb Erwend. There we are lonely tops, this should make us proud, and these successes must also be mentioned. [[Wenninger and Preiner.]] One point I have to mention is commercial law, which is constantly being discussed: without training, no professional work, no value added, no export without professional work. High export performance is based on training, and there is no such thing as industrial requirements. That is why I would ask you to consider this in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13318	Mr Keck has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13340	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner! Mr. Kassinger, perhaps to increase your Vienna phobia a little bit [[Abg. Cashier: That's not a phobia!]] The municipality of Vienna is the largest local apprentice trainer in Austria, if not in Europe, and this should also be taken into account before anything else is presented here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ as well as Deputies Wöginger and Karl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the report on the situation of youth employment and apprenticeship training in 2014/2015 once again highlights the excellent work being done in Austria in this field. In the EU comparison, we are still in second place behind Germany, with regard to the lowest unemployment rates among young people. In order to keep this level, however, it is also necessary to support the firms that train apprentices. Especially in the field of the raw materials industry – and especially the steel industry – there is a danger that there will be no apprentices in the future. The example of voestalpine, which trains 1,377 apprentices throughout the group, shows this. Why is that so? – The entire Austrian and European steel industry is under massive threat due to a high level of low-cost imports of steel from China. European or Austrian steel is produced by well-paid employees in a climate- and energy-efficient way, and Chinese steel is produced under significantly worse working and environmental conditions and is still subsidized by the state. The People's Republic of China is now in favour of obtaining the status of a market economy through the WTO. This must not be until the People's Republic of China has objectively fulfilled the five EU criteria, since there must be no automatic means; and the European Union must intensify the fight against dumping imports. It requires reduced procedures and anti-dumping duties at a dissuasive level. Just one example to see how this is subsidized: A tonne of steel produced in Austria costs 350 €, a tonne of steel produced in China costs, including EU tariffs, including transport to Austria 220 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the trade union Pro-Ge – the production union – and the trade union GPA – trade union of private workers, printing, journalism and paper – has launched a parliamentary citizens' initiative: “Protection of the European steel industry and industrial jobs”. I will send this citizens' initiative to all clubs today and tomorrow. I ask you to support these jobs in Austria and also the apprenticeship training places behind them with this citizens' initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13392	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of this report III-266 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is the majority, so this request is accepted. [[14:55:20]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1115, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Survey Act (1173 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13439	Now we're on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13466	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The aim of the present amendment to the Survey Act is to increase efficiency and party-friendliness as well as to increase legal certainty. A number of improvements in red tape reduction and cost savings for the property owners as well as for the federal government could be achieved; I can take a short look at some – in the remaining time until 15 o'clock. In the future, for example, it will be possible in catastrophe communities to carry out the general re-establishment of the border disaster only in parts of a catastral community. So far, it has only been possible to initiate this re-establishment for the whole catastrophic community. This was mainly due to considerable costs for the federal government in the high alpine area, and this was often caused only in a hesitant manner. Especially for communities – and I am particularly pleased as a Tyrolean – in side valleys, in high alpine areas, this means that the catasties can now be economically updated and modernized for the economically more interesting populated valley regions. There are also changes for private individuals in the definition of land in the border disaster. As far as border disputes are concerned, the application has been rejected, which, of course, was unsatisfactory for the applicant whose desire was rejected. The situation was equally unsatisfactory for the neighbor, whose opposition was also rejected. It was not decided and the border dispute was not clarified. To date, the survey office had to apply for its own procedure, and this inevitably resulted in no significant additional costs. This problem, ladies and gentlemen, could now be solved. The new regulation will now provide for the possibility of both parties being invited to cross-border negotiations. If no result can be achieved, the final frontier course will be decided by the courts. Procedures are also accelerated by the direct acquisition of the survey results of the planning author in the future. This regulation brings greater legal certainty for both sides and, ultimately, clarity in the border disaster. Transparency – now I am at my last point – will also be increased: In future, it will be possible to see land sharing plans. So far, this was only available to authorities and surveyors, now the property owners also have the opportunity to see these plans. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, the new regulation brings red tape and greater legal certainty to property owners, while also increasing transparency. In addition, procedures are handled faster and thus more cost-effectively. I would therefore ask you to approve this amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13511	As the debate on a urgent request should take place at 3 p.m., I ask Mr Matznetter: Do you want to start with the speech? But I'd have to interrupt you. [[Abg. Matznetter: Do I have two minutes left?]] - You've got a minute left. [[Abg. Matznetter: No, then!]] – I almost thought so. I shall now interrupt for a minute, and then call upon the urgent request as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13560	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:48]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues with regard to new style through transparent, professional and objective positioning with regard to the election of the ORF General Director and the appointment of ministers (1731/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13600	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1731/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13721	I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. His speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13742	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! We invited the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to a debate for the next three hours on the topic of ‘new style’. “We have to end this spectacle of power-reliance and future-loss.” – The Federal Chancellor said this about a month ago here in this House, and he has received a lot of approval for it, from all corners and ends of the Republic, from various parties. Federal Chancellor! There was a lot of advance locust berries and enthusiasm here. We NEOS started three years ago with the trio: new heads, new style, new politics, and we have had a lot of sympathy for your claims from the very beginning. That is why we are also critical companions when it comes to fulfilling these promises also with life. Of course, I am not going to be able to report a great disappointment here last week in the context of the election to the new President of the Court of Auditors or the new President of the Court of Auditors. Mr Bundeskanzler, that was not a new style, but it was an old one, I want to say, a miserable game that was played here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] I think that's what we need to talk about. And why is this urgent today? - Because there is always a second chance. If you speak of “new style” and if your promise is still upright, then there is – and therefore urgent – the next great opportunity to really fulfill the “new style” with life, namely, 9. ==References====External links== ==References== What, valued citizens, is happening on 9 October. August? - We'll see. The question is: Is there another old game, a discounted game? Will we be witnessing a package there again, or will transparency be a motto of future design? ==References== August will be ordered the holder of the next top position, namely the ORF tip, and the question is: How, Mr. Federal Chancellor, do you intend to dedicate yourself to this order? Now, the ORF-... – not the ORF-, but one sometimes confuses it – the ÖVP Secretary-General has already given us a media orientation, but we should not, as an opposition group, interfere in the election mode of the independent Foundation Council. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: Super!]] There comes a smile from the opposition ranks. That's all you can say. I think this is of such a threat that the government parties align us by means of a media release, we do not like to interfere in the election mode of the independent Foundation Council. So if you want to put the discussion in this corner today by the government parties, I'll tell you: Don't do that, because the only ones who still believe in this story are you! And not even you! If you once again wanted to sell the citizens of this country after this insulting Court of Auditors' order when ordering in the ORF for so stupid, you wouldn't do a good job because what happened at the Court of Auditors really was an earbeat in the face of the powerful citizen who was a powerful citizen in that country. Now some will say: Yes, we've already made an open hearing, a public hearing, everything's okay anyway! And others will say: Forget the hearing at the ORF, because it did not use anything at the Court of Auditors either! And both are wrong. Why? – The public hearing would not have come into the world – that is, the cure – had not said the opposition: We want transparency! We don't want packaging behind locked doors, in back rooms. It is the most important control body of the Republic, we want this office to be appointed transparently. Then came skepticism. ÖVP and SPÖ wanted to move this to the long-term bank in the Presidential. It's going to be like saying, Yes, we have in principle sympathy for this and believe that people might be interested in it, but let's look, then we'll see! And we said, No, we don't see, we don't see, but either we're making a public hearing or we're going to organize it ourselves as opposition parties, and those candidates who won't come will not look good! – SPÖ and ÖVP have understood this and have said: Go ahead, let's make a public hearing! Now some come and say: Let us leave this with the public hearing, this has not proved to be the case with the Court of Auditors! The following are written in the main book: A public hearing is an instrument, and as with all instruments, it is the issue of application. I can pervert any instrument by using it without responsibility. I can do this in the hammer by using the hammer, not to hit the nails, but to knock the neighbor on the shin. I can do this at the kitchen knife by saying that I do not take it for bread cutting, but have done something with my companion or with my companion. [[Abg. Wooker: Well, well!]] And, of course, I can pervert the instrument of public hearing. I can use it completely contrary to the intention. And, Mr Rädler, the ÖVP has already done this: They have perverted the instrument of public hearing, and that is the ear fig for the citizen. You perverted it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Now some say how Mrs. Fekter calls it out: But the majority decides, and we should accept it. – No, I don’t accept it because I accept the result, but... [[Further call of the Abg. Fekter.]] I do not accept it because at the end of the day, after more than eight hours of hearing, all the observers and observers at the Court of Auditors' office had a monotonous impression, all the journalists, all the representatives involved, the employees, a monotonous impression... [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true! That's not true at all!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Under the control of one was said, also by members of the ÖVP: This hearing was so... [[Further call of the Abg. Fekter.]] A journalist said to me: Mr. Steger was a category for himself. Yes, Mrs. Fekter, now you can call me why it's different, but... [[Abg. Gahr:... take off a show! This is self-representation, Mr President.]] [[Further calls from Mr Zanger and Mr Loacker.]] This ÖVP does not even have a bad conscience, but you are still trying to pack it as an act of intellectual honesty. And in doing so, you have rocked the citizens from the front to the back. That's not okay! That's not okay! They're selling the citizens for stupid. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter, if you want to know exactly – Mr Lopatka, the strip-driver, is unfortunately not here today, otherwise I would have to do something to him – Mrs Fekter, if you do not believe it, then I may quote from the press, a prestigious newspaper that writes: “So, not by the competence of the persons, the matter was decided, but by very different motives.” – That’s what “The Press” writes. [[Abg. Fekter: You're against the women! The NEOS are against women! You're against women! You don't accept a woman for this job!]] Mrs Fekter, in her parent book, “The Standard” writes: ‘Court of account: Packaging instead of renewal’. – And you sit there and still want to sell it as intellectual honesty! I'd just say... [[Further call of the Abg. Fekter.]] – Listen to me, Mrs. Fekter, you can talk afterwards! You don't always have to call from the wrong side, but you can calm down this curve. You can come to the speaker's desk afterwards... [[Abg. Fekter: This is the right side!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] – The dark side of power is definitely around the woman Fekter. Back to urgency. – What are we proposing for the ORF? Federal Chancellor! If you say a public hearing has the task... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Federal Chancellor! If you say a public hearing has the task that we have with great... [[Abg. Fekter: In case of equal qualifications...!]] – Mrs Fekter is constantly calling in between them! I already have a tinnitus on this ear, Mrs. Fekter! Skill Please give her a rest! That's incredible. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: I didn't even know you weren't holding out anymore!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Look, that's not the seriousness of the ÖVP! Lack of intellectual honesty, lack of honesty and a lack of seriousness! – This is a state of power! [[Abg. Rasinger: Power Consciousness!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e13984	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that intermediate calls are a good and right parliamentary instrument. However, you must not cause the speaker to stop making his remarks here at the speaker's desk. And I am also seeking to be moderate in terms of expression, and I would ask that we proceed in this sense with the debate. Mr Klubobmann Strolz, you are speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14004	Thank you, Madam President. The concern we want to discuss today is a transparent, professional, objective occupation. ORF – next chance. The proposal we are making here is that we also make a public hearing for the appointment of the ORF general, the ORF general. Why? – Because, of course, the ORF, like much in this Republic, is facing a turnaround. We have digitization. We have internationalization. And it's pretty grotesque when we focus on the appointment of the new boss, the new boss of this huge company, billions of companies in the public and in the non-public debate only to count heads in circles of friends. No one is discussing the alternative future strategies for this so important company in Austria. And we want to change NEOS because we believe we have to go into a serious discussion here – first for the company itself, second for the many employees of this company and, of course, third for the payers of fees. We all pay €600 million in the ORF. The ORF General is our first employee in this company. And that's why we should have transparency. And if you say that the Council of the Foundation is completely independent, then I have to resist this, that is simply not true, because you all know – and you don't know any other reasons here – that the Council of the Foundation is of course dominated by circles of friends, especially friends of the ÖVP and SPÖ Group. [[Abg. Rädler: Hazelsteiner!]] - Yes, we also have a representative in it. That's it. And we're also making a proposal. Mr Haselsteiner has taken the approach, and this would also be good for you, Mr Rädler: I have come to abolish myself in this function! That would be a real relief. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Our proposal is on the table. It's about that we want to completely transform the ORF into its bodies, but that won't happen soon. That is why we have two options for greater quality and relevance: Either we make a quick change to the ORF law only in the field of public hearing. If you say that we do not want to, because this is too short-term, then we can do it the way we do at the Court of Auditors, then we can make a voluntary hearing. If you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are going to judge me now – and I know that this will be as safe as the Amen in prayer – I am not responsible for it, that is the Foundation Council, and so on, then I will tell you: Please don't think we're naïve! The only thing that hinders us from a public hearing on the ORF topic is the will of SPÖ and ÖVP. If you both want it respectfully your circle of friends, then it will happen. If you don't want to say it, no, we want to take it out of the closed doors, just like the Court of Auditors, then it won't happen. Mr Wrabetz, by the way, the only candidate who has been on the field so far, has already told me about the media, but also about me personally, he thinks, that is a good idea, he would put himself to it. And now the decision is with ÖVP and SPÖ, whether they want transparency here or whether they say: No, we're the power of the dark and we're going to do this further behind locked doors! How could you take it off? – Similar to the Court of Auditors hearing, The Foundation Council meets informally for a hearing. It's not a regular session. It is invited to the public, journalists are invited, and ORF III transmits live: the debate, the struggle for the best business strategy for a billion-dollar company that has a dominant position that belongs to all of us. I think that would be the right access. You got it in your hand. You can reject it with flowery reasons today or you can do it. ‘New style’ would mean: Do! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If you say that you actually intend to implement this promise “new style” beyond the ORF, then of course this also applies to ministerial orders. I think the population didn't understand how ministerrochades are going to take place and that there are people who are basically once for every... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] – Mrs. Fekter is already here again! [[Abg. Arbitrator: Matthias, it was understandable anyway!]] [[Call:New Style]] New deal! Mrs Fekter! It is not always understandable how ministers are ordered and replaced. And here, too, we are – ministers in the translation “ Servants of the People” – in the duty that we make this transparent and comprehensible. Now some will say, yes, but you don't have to tell the chancellor, you have to do that in the GO or somewhere else. Here again, I say: Either we want it, we do it, or we want to talk flowery excuses. And you will certainly come up with flowery excuses, I am sure because you do not want transparency because you do not want to engage with the citizens because in Austria it is still not interested in what someone can do, but: who knows me and who I know. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rasinger.]] It is not about what I can do, Mr Rasinger, but about who I know. This is the order mode of this government. And that's too little! People in this country will not vote for that. Why? – Because in Austria every intern, every intern, every employee and manager must have an application interview. Only for the highest positions in the Republic does this not apply, as we say: It's not that important, we'll take care of it among ourselves! That's not okay, and that's why we want a public hearing for ministers. If you say, Completely unusual!, then let's look at Brussels: Commissioners, Commissioners will also be appointed on the basis of a hearing. The Heads of Government can make a proposal anyway. We measure there the professional suitability and the personal suitability. And this could also prevent some of the abuses. That's quite clear. [[Abg. Rasinger: Will you just do everything with Hearing?]] [[Abg. Stache: Deputies hearing!]] And then I'll take a step further, Mr. Rasinger: This also applies to the Constitutional Court. The highest positions in justice are ordered in such a way that it is not comprehensible for citizens. And if you say, Yes, we want to keep it that way, that's not so important! but please don't be surprised that the grave between politics and citizens is increasing! Either you want to do something for the credibility of politics, or you want to continue packing, muttering, camouflage and deceiving. If you want to do this after the Lopatka et al. brand, you have to continue like this. Then you don't need to wonder that people say: I want nothing more to do with this policy! We don't need to wonder. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Strache: A Klubobmann hearing maybe also!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Who pulled you out of the hat?]] In this sense I invite you, Federal Chancellor, to join your promise: “We have to end this spectacle of powerlessness and future oblivion.” What happened after the suitable candidate did not come to the Court of Auditors? – He said: I will leave the Court of Auditors and move my activity abroad in the future. – This is the consequence of your ignoring policy: They dispel the best minds not only from the most important institutions, but also from this country. And we're at a point where we can't afford that. That, Mr. Federal Chancellor, is a forget of the future! And against those you wanted to face, they didn't want to transport you. That's why I'm building on you. They are, according to the Minister of Finance, the second best NEOS in this Federal Government. Don't let us down!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14168	On the issue of an opinion, Mr Bundeskanzler Mag. Christian Kernzu word reported. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14192	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen, also at the gallery! Mr Strolz, I have listened carefully to you and, of course, I am prepared to have a serious discussion here. – Whether this was a praise at the end of the day, I'm going to make a little sense of that, but that's not supposed to stop our good conversation base. You have raised a few points, but let me just say two more syllables to the Court of Auditors: The words that have fallen there, such as “democracy policy farce”, were, so to speak, a bit of the criticism that you have also practiced and which was then taken over in the newspapers. I do not see this in this case, because, as you know, there was a candidate for whom the Socialist Group voted, who, in its opinion, was the best candidate, but who did not find a majority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vavrik.]] At the end of the day, democracy is also looking for majority voting for candidates, and I think we have made a good choice with Mrs Kraker. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... not even suggested!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: This is the “New Deal”: SPÖ has not even proposed its own candidates!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] But let me cut this point off and, as you said correctly, let us go on what lies ahead of us. I think you have to relativize a few things, and you'll see that I'm going to give you a lot of points because I think you're following many right thinking approaches that I can also support. But first of all you have to see the following: You have meant – and I have read it carefully – that you are looking for the best man for visions, strategies, future concepts. What we must not ignore is that the ORF is about an undertaking with billions of turnover, which, of course, also has a democratic significance. My firm conviction is that for such an institution it is necessary to seek a manager who not only has visions and strategies and is able to exist a PowerPoint presentation, but who is also able to execute and achieve results. I mean, this has been quite successful in management in the past. At ORF, you have to consider what it means in the management German, the KPIs, that is, what is measured: That will be the reach, that will be the business results, that will be the public satisfaction and, of course, a few other parameters concerning the balance of the programme. And I think that worked very well. I'm a little skeptical when you say a hearing is an all-healing agent, and the best comes out automatically, because if it went after that, then you probably would only have spoken-backed future researchers in management positions, and there's no guarantee that they're doing it better than the existing staff. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wöger.]] And maybe another analogy: I am convinced that in choosing such a position you really need a careful selection process, in which at the end perhaps a hearing can stand. Usually, however, there is a headhunt who is looking for best-qualified people, then there is a 360 degree feedback, deep interviews, references and again the question: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] What has this man or this woman achieved? – As I mean, this should be put to the fore here as well. Let me put on an analogy: Hans Peter Haselsteiner, who represents you in the Board of Trustees, is one of the most outstanding managers personalities and has left behind a life work that seeks the same. How many of his board members did he order in open hearings before the shareholders' assembly? – Well, not one! [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] No one, and that's his reason. If you look at the Foundation Council today, the personalities who are responsible for it, you have to say: Indeed, there are respectable personalities inside, to whom we should not generally express distrust, because they ultimately also have the share-law responsibility. There are excellent people: an embacher, a hazelsteiner – I quoted it – a houser, a climber. These are people who have seen something in their lives and can also be trusted with a judgment. However, I give you the right thing, and I think it would be a good alternative if you were to hold a hearing not only before the board of foundations or in front of the staff – there are also hearing processes – but if you did so publicly. I think your idea of transferring this to ORF III would be quite interesting and would think that this could be a contribution to objectively pursuing this discussion. Whether it will be a contribution to increase the quota? - Well! It will probably interest us more here than the rest of the people outside, but nevertheless I think this is an interesting idea, and we will also advertise it at the foundation councils that the SPÖ has nominated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Then it is, in fact, that the Council of the Foundation must make a decision as to how it wants the procedure, and that is of course also to be respected by us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would, however, like to separate the discussion a little, because on the one hand, this is a leadership task, which of course is now to be answered, and then there is a point that we must not, of course, talk about and ignore, and that is the democratic side and the way in which we are reporting in the ORF. There are always discussions and complaints from all camps, and you have to look at them very carefully. I mean, it makes sense to think about new concepts. For example, I consider the proposal that the Editors' Assembly should have the opportunity to drop their superiors by 80 percent, 75 percent if they do not do so properly and if they only comply with party-political calls, for an interesting idea. This could be taken up once and should also be discussed with the editors, because they need a proper degree of independence for their reporting, I am indeed convinced of that. But then you have addressed a second point in your urgent request, and that is in addition to the ordering mechanism also the question which structure you find there at all. I would also like to give you a few words on this point. I still saw this as a board member at the time – at the time I was allowed to be a young man – and I experienced how this body works. There have always been amazing good results, but a body with 35 people is just too big. This, of course, is not a working body and not a particularly workable structure, and there is a need to think about it. The problem, however, is the following: While we are likely to find ourselves easily in the diagnosis, there is a problem that looks like this: The ORF has a federal mission, i.e. we will, in a reasonable way, take the federal states into account in an appropriate form. I am also convinced that employee representation is a very important factor, that works councils belong to such a body, not a question at all. Government, opposition – very important as well as the public council. And if we declimate all of this quantitatively, then the willingness to change the body, the one. But finding a good solution that allows maximum representation is a not so easy task. However, I can offer you that we start this discussion process and examine the proposals that exist for it. You have one more point to mention, and that is the question of hearing for ministers. There I see it something different, I have to say, because if a minister presents himself to the public, to Parliament, to the committees, then he is in any case permanently in the permanent fire of the public and the opposition. There is an easy way to see what they are politically responsible for and how they deal with it. I wonder what we would achieve with an additional hearing here, because in the end, of course, it is clear: That's a political decision. And against this background, I think, it makes no sense to create another forum. So I think that's more critical. It probably does no harm, but I would not see an increased benefit in it either. Finally, your point remains with the Constitutional Court. In turn, I see this more differentiated, rather like you, because there we have the situation that those candidates who nominate the National Council and the Federal Council are anyway subjected to hearing, and there is naturally the legitimate question why we do not do so with all the others. You're perfectly right. This would have to be considered and one could try to change that accordingly. At the Constitutional Court, I believe that it is so important because, while a member of the government is acting on an open stage, it is clear to the Constitutional Court – and its members have a huge responsibility, as we know from recent contexts – that they will then meet behind closed doors. And bringing in transparency there, I think, is a very interesting idea. So you see: no rejection in Bausch and Arch. I try to take up the reasonable elements and come up with solutions where it makes sense. And as far as our influence on the Foundation Councils is concerned, I can promise you from our side that we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14302	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14323	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to follow on from the point where, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have drawn up and meant that it would also be important to think about democracy. I would like to focus on that part of media policy in the sense of this appointment by the Directorate-General of the ORF. This is probably the most important or perhaps – according to the Minister – the second most important media policy position in this country and stands for pars per Toto for the country's media policy. Our demand to think about hearing is, of course, a requirement to think about media policy in itself, and this buying-in is also urgently necessary, because what is the task of the media from the point of view of politics? – The task of media democracy is to provide the basis for pluralistic, critical opinion. Media policy has two levers: on the one hand, the regulatory lever by distorting or distorting the media market in one direction, on the other hand, there are, of course, incentives – promotions that can be distributed directly or indirectly, promoting diversity or concentration. One can of course argue about this second point: One can argue about whether these subsidies are necessary and whether it is not possible for such a critical public to be formed on its own initiative. But we assume as a premise that these subsidies are necessary. However, what works today is the distribution of journalistic content, also independent of media houses that are now in state possession. In other words, Austria is going the way here that TV, radio, online, as well as the branch of print media with the “Wiener Zeitung” is so to speak as a media house located in state care and producing and selling content. ==References====External links==* Official website However, century-old reality and developments go a long way beyond, and the task of media policy is very often limited only to the negotiation of party-political influence on these media houses, and that is precisely what needs to be considered. So what does the Austrian media market look like? – In the international Comparatively, this market is very much concentrated in the printing and broadcasting sectors. The ORF still manages to unite a third to a quarter of the advertising market. We have media print and Styria media houses, where a large number of press releases and reaches are concentrated, and the press landscape is influenced by the award of the so-called direct press promotion to some media, which can well be described as daily newspapers. In Austria, therefore, media policy is traditionally exercised as a policy of power, and it is used in the field of broadcasting as well as in the printing sector. When we talk about media policy in politics, we talk primarily about the ORF. This may lead the ORF not only to swallowing, but also to party-political influence. Questions about democracy or social policy tasks of journalism and media rarely take place in the political discourse. Now maybe for many of you a news: There are global developments that go unimpeded by Austrian politics. We are talking here about digitization, convergence, aggregation, internationalization, networking. Once separate media holes flow into each other and the information prepared by the transmitter is now filtered through social networks. They all know the phenomenon of the Bubble filter. You no longer control media, the link comes to you via your own social network filtered. This also increases the importance of aggregators – from Facebook, Google and other social networks – in the distribution of these media content, of course, and their success in marketing this attention also means that a growing part of these advertising budgets no longer comes to the media itself, thus increasing the economic pressure on these media. In addition, there is no longer the idealized public in the Habermas sense, which can be addressed through these mass media, there is a fragmentation of this public, to partial publications. Especially the FPÖ knows that, and one can jealously or jealously acknowledge that the FPÖ also knows how it builds media for this audience. The FPÖ has its own national recipient, which is today called facebook.com/hc-stretches. [[Abg. New builder: It's envy!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: envy!]] [[Abg. Street:... without subsidies! You can even succeed in Austria without subsidies!]] Mediality is therefore no longer the communication of elites via mass media, but also the communication of media users among themselves. Digitalisation means not only technical change, but also that power relations in this area are changing within the democratic process of making opinions. Or translated and simply said: To stick to an ORF general or to believe that you can alimentize day-to-day news media with alimentary inserates will not lead to anything in the future. The situation presents challenges. As has already been said, printing and broadcasting are losing reach, influence, and the maintenance of this democratic policy task, the maintenance of critical pluralist opinion-making, of course, is continued by other media. This policy of minimum corrections while maintaining the broadcasting policy of the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website So what do you need to do? – First of all: Once existing media houses have to be politically disrupted and economically strengthened. At the same time, critical pluralistic journalism must be promoted, possible and reach as many people as possible, regardless of the technical development and economic development of individual media houses. The aim must be to develop a new media promotion, which is granted neutrally and primarily promotes the content production of public value, promotes the training of journalists and creates a sustainable market that can operate independently of party policy. At the same time, of course, you have to free the ORF from its ex-monopolistic role and focus on its core task, and that is the provision of content with public-value character. Such a paradigm change could take place in two phases: first of all, the economic and party-political distortion of the market to a free market model with less market-distorting positions in the media market, and the second step is the promotion of public value in this media market and no longer the promotion of media houses and infrastructures, technical media channels and distribution. This two-stage process thus leads to media houses being questioned in themselves and deprived of the influence of party politics, so that more space is created for independent media houses or for the same media houses in greater party-political independence. The promotions must never have the effect on the content itself. Specific measures to be taken in this regard: The first measure in this area with regard to the ORF would be the Greek reorganisation, which has already been addressed, but which has also been briefly outlined by you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and not only by NEOS, but also by the Council of Editors, also by the Greens in a similar way as a proposal. You quoted the Stock Act. The ORF does not behave exactly as provided for in the Stock Act. We would have liked to have a board of foundations, which really works like a Supervisory Board, and we would have actually changed the occupation of this Foundation Council into a redesigned public council or a funder's meeting, which ensures that the party's political influence is pushed back as far as possible. We have, of course, long been applying for that. We have asked for minor things, like the right of hearing of the national leaders, we have requested the removal of the advertising charge to keep the economic distortion far away, the restriction of the ORF to a public-value contract, the reduction of the GIS and the transition of funding to the federal budget, or the gradual reduction of the ORF advertising times that goes hand in hand. The second step should be to convert the ORF into a public-value media house, production house in the long term. Such a structured media policy supports public value, supports journalism and is independent of the developments of international market participants. What does this have to do with the Directorate-General to return to the actual point of this request? – Not much at first glance, and it may seem to be a contradiction too, but that’s not it. In addition to all general considerations on how to occupy positions in close-to-state establishments or institutions, the Director-General or the Director-General of the ORF has a special role to play here. Whoever now reaches this position must initiate this change, which I described as absolutely necessary, not only himself, but also, of course, accompany. We do not believe that a candidate, a candidate who is used by the Board of Trustees with his associations of friends, can fulfil this task.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14392	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14413	I was a little surprised at the introduction by Klubobmann Strolz that he spoke of knives for life-mates and hammers for the neighbor. With this drastic formulation, you just wanted to say that there can be, of course, abuse of all instruments. [[Abg. Wheeler: Perverted!]] I just want to say: It is no longer more democratic than the main committee in which the President of the Court of Auditors has spoken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] No, no, no, There was a vote. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Lugar.]] – You should not laugh at all, because the colleague Dietrich has also made use of it. Our candidate Steger got 14 votes there. He needed 15. [[Abg. Lugar: Why didn't you put him up?]] Now I'm looking at my colleague, Mr. Zanger, you've been quite excited. [[Abg. Singer: Because he was the best!]] They were at the hearing. You have said that is excellent what the colleague Steger did. My question is: Why didn't you choose him? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You didn't even nominated him!]] If you had elected him, Mr. Zanger, Steger would now be President of the Court of Auditors. That's democracy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] No, no, no, That's democracy! [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Now I'm gonna say something about it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] – Do you want a Vatican electoral mode that you then seven times, eight times, nine times... [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] No, no, no, We didn't want to call in Rome, but we said the following: We make this one vote, and if there is no majority for that, then, as usual in democracy, there must be a compromise. And not every compromise is packaging, because then the essence of democracy is the packaging, and with that I am anti-democratic in the discourse. And I wouldn't have expected Klubobmann Strolz to slide into this water, which he doesn't want to go. [[Abg. Stroll: You don't believe that yourself!]] I have to defend you from myself now, Mr. Klubobmann Strolz. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Stroll.]] I have to defend you from myself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Here is also the place where, in a debate a few years ago, we discussed the famous shell reform concerning the broadcasting law, the ORF and so on. I'm not one who suspects that he's defending the Wolfgang Schüssel, you know, I was rather one of his critics, but this law, that's what! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] No, no! At the time, he not only introduced a functioning position of the Director-General that he could really be Director-General, and thus of course opens up other possibilities, he also introduced the Foundation Council, for the members of the Foundation Council, due diligence and responsibility as in a Supervisory Board of an AG. That's a big difference from the ORF curatorium, as it was before. In the Foundation Council, therefore, competent people are also aware of this. Before I go in there, I need to know – and they know that – that there is this duty of care and this responsibility. And now constantly pretending to be just some people from somewhere, unsuspecting and incompetent people, where they say: Well, we know already, it's unfair and unfair. Hans Peter Haselsteiner, who is almost already an icon in the private sector – I have to say that before – will not be allowed to do so. And the people of the Foundation Council will of course ask questions when it comes to ordering functions. And, honestly, I have looked at this urgent request and I have come to the view: We should have met before, I tell you quite honestly, then I would have given you some advice. [[Abg. Stroll: Let's talk!]] For example, if you write – and I really mean that now, because we want to cooperate, not only here, but... [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We really want to conduct this dialogue. [[Abg. Haubner: “Not just here”!]] No, no, I didn't say that, I just said "here." The urgent request states that ‘it is possible’: there is the possibility of hearing that this is public, and so on. It's possible! It is possible if the Foundation Council decides. And the Federal Chancellor just said that. In my opinion, there will be this majority, there should be this transparency. [[Abg. It's wonderful! Bravo!]] Why shouldn't it be in ORF III? I think this is even very appealing. This is likely to further improve the deployment rates at ORF III. I don't know if we have the same opinion now, but I hope so. Well, it's possible. And there will probably also be total transparency with the workforce and with everything there. Why not?- Oh, my God! And now I'd like to say something to you: You, Mr Klubobmann Strolz, belong to the group – as we do – which says performance must be recognized. And if performance needs to be recognised, I would like to point out the following: When it comes out... [[call to the FPÖ.]] – Apart from that, Alexander Wrabetz was the candidate for the opposition in 2006. You'll remember: Together – and so on! [[Abg. Strache: Not just the opposition!]] But not only us, but also us together. We all voted in common – even part of the government – when Alexander Wrabetz was then elected Director-General. [[Abg. Strache: That was a rainbow coalition!]] And then it went on: After five years he joined, and he was then elected with 30 per-voices at 6 abstentions. So, you can't just say that he did bad work, and you can't just say he didn't have the trust of the board of foundations and the audience council. And that's something you should say here, if you already think that performance has to be taken into account. And in addition, the black numbers there write, balance balance – 2015, 2016; They will know that anyway – and despite the financial and economic crisis, they will be economically successful. [[Abg. Street: With a “small” grant!]] – May I talk about economic success in peace, or can I not do that now? I would also like to say: There were awards, Oscars, the Golden Palm. [[Abg. Strache: The ORF has also received a “small” grant!]] I see the impressed views of your colleagues, Mr Klubobmann Strache. Look how they all look! You need to turn around once. So I find... [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street:... the "little" grant!]] It is not without effect to strive there: Eurovision Song Contest – a worldwide recognition that all of this has been very, very positive –, the high deployment figures, the market leadership, quality television 35.3 percent, the radio 72 percent, the many visits at online. That's not nothing! I can't just make myself and say that's nothing. Then performance doesn't count at all in this country?- Oh, my God! That can't be! That is why I would ask to hold a fair debate on this matter. And now some will say: What about journalistic independence? What about objectivity? – I am now definitely quoting a respected voice. Dieter Bornemann, Chairman of the Editorial Council, says: “In the face of all the criticism that can be put forward, we can support DG Alexander Wrabetz: The autonomy and independence of the central editors has never been as great as today. The journalistic freedom is great”, “the editorial staff work unimpeded.” [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] “In all criticism”! – You can say it afterwards. But it... [[Abg. Strache:... the Lord Kern!]] [[New ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] No, you have to acknowledge that! Look, if you mean from home, that's nothing, because you're just saying it's useful when you say it's nothing, then you think it's really nothing, but that doesn't mean that when you say that reality is nothing, then reality is really nothing, but that can be quite different. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So that's a competition of realities, and I'm excited to see if you're going through with your reality. I hope not! As the last point I would like to make, I would like to add to what Mr Bundeskanzler said: When ordering a member of the Constitutional Court of Hearings, I find, in fact, something to be considered. What I noticed in the urgent request – that is why I would have liked to put together with you, Mr Klubobmann Strolz: They say in both cases, that when it comes to holding a hearing for members of the government and for constitutional judges, you want to have government documents. That's where I ask you: Why Make You're smaller than you are? Why don't you say you're making an initiative proposal, sit down with us and we'll discuss it? [[Abg. Stroll: Let's do it!]] They say: Go, please, send us something from the government, and then let's look at it! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] I would have told you – unfortunately you didn't talk to me: [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Stroll]] Be more confident that an upright course would also be appropriate to NEOS on this issue! Come, let's sit down and do something in common, then let's evaluate it, and that's what's going on in the Constitutional Committee, and there we'll see if we can do something about it! So my request is: Let us try to reach a consensus here, because it is about many millions of people who place the emphasis on the fact that this ORF as a public-law radio keeps the Austrian cultural identity as well, that we prove in a wealth of channels from different countries that we really help our Austrian identity to break through! And the minimum is that we all stick together here. And I'm counting on this commonness, I'm building on it. And that's where the NEOS will be, right? – Give me the hand, we will do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14741	Next, Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14763	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Lady and Lord on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As always, Mr Cap has done a lot of work on the performance of the ORF. I can only say that the ORF is undoubtedly a leader of the Austrian media country. That's what I'm talking about. And, of course, the decision on the future Director-General is a very essential one, because it is also a crucial issue for the future, namely the orientation of the company. The questions are as follows: How does the company deal with the new challenges in the media landscape? How can the quality of information be maintained in our country as well? There are a lot of questions to be discussed here. Ladies and gentlemen! Although Mr Strolz sees this as a flowering excuse, we in Parliament are grateful to God – that is my personal view – not the decision-makers who will become Director-General, but that is the matter of the Foundation Council and is the responsibility of the company itself. For me, it is important, I think, that we should not, as it were, take politics into account here, but rather the company itself should decide, of course, also on the electoral mode and also on the Rules of Procedure of the Foundation Council. And it should be the case of the Foundation Council – both Mr Cap and the Federal Chancellor have already mentioned this – how this electoral mode, how this electoral sequence is achieved. And there is, as already mentioned, a hearing that the Foundation Council has announced as a decision-making body, and I am convinced that the Foundation Council will find a good solution for the company. On the question of political influence, let me quote a few councils of foundations: Erich Fenlinger: “I’m sure I won’t be instrumentalized. I am nominated by the public council and take my task seriously.” Thomas Zach also spoke against agreements and said: “The appointment of the new management is certainly not a reward for the past, but a direction decision for the future of the ORF.” Siggi Neuschitzer said: “We have to wait for which candidates to compete with which teams, and then consider who has the better concept for the company.” To sum up, therefore: The issue of the election of the Director-General is the matter of the Stiftungsrat and not of politics. Since tomorrow the issue of the Court of Auditors and the appointment of its President will be discussed here in plenary, please allow me to speak on the question of the leaving of a candidate: It is obvious to me that, if one does not agree with a decision, it is not a question of the company leaving the institution. What I did not understand is to announce this already in the hearing, i.e. to tell decision-makers: If you don't choose me, I'll leave! So this is a procedure I didn't understand. Ladies and gentlemen! Transparent, professional and objective posts must take place close to the State. Yes, of course! And if you look at the urgent request of NEOS, you see that the hearing is seen as an adequate instrument. Ladies and gentlemen! Basics on hearing: From my point of view, the hearing is overestimated. Yes, I can get an impression of the candidates, the hearing offers me the opportunity to hear something about their goals and their ideas about the task, and I can see: How well can anyone present themselves, how communicative is someone? However, whether a person has necessary skills such as competence, employee management, employee motivation and enforcement to name just a few aspects can only be imagined or suspected. In addition, we speak at the hearing of a snapshot which took about one hour to select the President of the Court of Auditors. And I wonder whether the selection procedure is limited to a hearing, the task to and for itself being fulfilled. And I wonder if a hearing alone can really lead to an unrestricted objectivity if you only get an overview of some necessary, important skills. Ladies and gentlemen! I liked Bernhard Görg’s comment in yesterday’s “Standard” under the title “A Hearing Is Not a Precision Instrument”. He describes very well what the hearing can do and what it cannot do. And I can recommend it to you for reading. Ladies and gentlemen! In my professional life, I have already conducted a lot of application talks and was also present at Hearings. I have experienced people who have a special gift to present themselves, who know what answers are well received at the selection body. But I also had to note that such people were not always the best choice for the advertised job. Many companies and institutions do not give preference to a multi-stage selection procedure. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say: Let us leave the decisions on human resources where they belong: the companies themselves! Let us not draw them into the field of politics! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14836	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14857	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, thank you for your contribution to the ORF and thank you for mentioning my person in this causa. I'll come back to it a little later and tell you what thoughts I have. On the topic of ORF you can say one thing: With us you can always discuss everything, we are really ready to talk! But above all, I would like us to talk about compulsory fees at ORF. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to make a brief comment on the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors, or now the President of the Court of Auditors, and I would say that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany from the beginning did not really do a good job, even if he was publicly disappointed by the selection of staff, as far as the candidates for the President of the Court of Auditors are concerned. He said that Parliament had a certain list of candidates, that the scope was quite limited, and that the selection of the profile was very limited. – So in my opinion, this is an agreement on the quality or requirements for the candidates themselves. And this is something we must not, if we, Parliament, decide who will be President of the Court of Auditors, be offered by a Mr Chancellor core. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can say to my person and to my group: All candidates who have put themselves in the hearing are highly respected. All have had their qualities, of course, to varying degrees. And a hearing is, of course, always a subjective story as regards the formation of opinions on the best choice. That's quite clear. Otherwise, we would not be individuals listening and forming an opinion. So it's probably a completely logical picture that there's probably everyone there coming to a different knowledge than the other one. And I do not think it would be appropriate for the President of the Court of Auditors to come from a group that controls itself in the government. I would like to say this very clearly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We would have preferred to be an independent candidate to the liberals and me personally. This has been the central element for me! And if you believe, Mr. Cap, you can pack me in now, because in some newspaper, I would have liked the performance of Mr. Steger, then I have to tell you: Yeah, it was, but I don't think he was the best candidate. Completely stoned and clear: That was someone else! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] That is how we have kept it in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. What came then was packing and mail chess of the very first kindness. And you're really not sorry that you sacrificed the climber in the main committee. Indeed, you have sacrificed him, for who would have prevented you from putting him up in a second or third round or fourth round? [[Abg. Lugar: Exactly!]] Who? - The ÖVP? I don't know why. – That’s the truth! And your entered ants show exactly that I'm right. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] A coalition break has been in the room, and this has been said by Mr Mayer in a subsequent discussion. I would like to say one thing: A coalition break has never been in the room, it was all negotiated from the outset. Because it would also be completely illogical: If the SPÖ candidate had been elected with the votes of the opposition or if, as in this case, an ÖVP candidate had been elected with the votes of the opposition, then it would have been completely wreaked that it would never have been a coalition break, for you would have agreed on other positions afterwards. And there's a lot more to it. [[Abg. Rädler: It's about your attitude!]] I've said my attitude. It's clear. And we have also clarified our voting process in the main committee, Mr Rädler. And you weren't there, so be pretty quiet! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The SPÖ maneuver is really transparent. In August, in the ORF, Wrabetz, the rails are already laid, he already has an unsuccessful time behind him. You'll see how our candidate decides. Let's see, that's certainly still a matter of reflections. And also in Styria is the choice of the head of the National Court of Auditors. I look at who will and whether the deal is already running in the background, that one of the former office leaders – I say so – will be elected from the former office of Voves. That's what we're looking at. That is to say, this New Deal, that term, which Mr Bundeskanzler Kern has shaped, is for me nothing but a phrase, a modern term for old practices, and something like that, I must say, cannot be seen as a sign of renewal. It is sad that such a thing is happening and possible in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14950	Next speaker: Ms. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e14974	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I already believe that transparency is very essential in a democracy. Transparency is essentially a protection against the party's book economy, corruption, yes, in every respect. I think that in Austria we have been fighting these problems for many years. Therefore, the public of the hearing and this – under quotation marks – “more transparent process” when he was always before was once a huge progress. There was, I believe, a very great hope in all, that, in particular, after the announcements made by you, Mr Bundeskanzler, you really did have a different style, with a more constructive style also in the house, here in Parliament, and that you were really looking for the best possible solution for the house. But now the great disappointment! Let us, once again, really talk about what happened, including the colleagues from the FPÖ! There was a majority extortion against the SPÖ, organized by Klubobmann Lopatka, with your participation, with team-stronach participation to enforce the second ÖVP candidate. That's the truth, that's the full transparency in the process that's been running here. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, you did not want the colleague Berger, and then there was no alternative but to this solution. This is so bad for a house that has the task – it is our duty to the citizens and to the citizens – to occupy this office as best as possible. The Court of Auditors is the supreme control body of the Republic, and it is our duty to do so. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] Mr Zanger, I think it is not an argument to say that someone has a political attitude. It comes to something very central! Whether someone has a political attitude: yes or no? – This is a fundamental right! Everyone can have a political attitude. Nevertheless, he may also hold public offices. The point is, however, whether someone makes a career because of his political attitude and exclusively because of a political attitude. We have had that very often in Austria, and it must not be. It is a small, very fine difference whether a person confesses to a mind or whether someone has made a career exclusively through the party book. So Her argument against colleagues Steger was not understandable. They have even praised exactly the passage that people without a party book and perhaps even people with a political attitude can hold such offices. That's what you've clap about. [[Abg. Singer: He wasn't the best for me anyway!]] So the transparency of this deal or package is, I think, on the table, we no longer need to talk about it. I would just have liked to have a more serious discussion with what really happened here, because there would have been a certain new opportunity to just take up this office differently. Very helpful was the public interference of you, Mr Bundeskanzler, not, I must say that too! The Court of Auditors shall be the institution of Parliament. We are obliged to organise the best possible support for legislation, also to see that the person is someone who also has the necessary contention of conflict, also with the government, and is not adapted, which is, so to speak, exactly with the administrative reform network. That would have been – regrettably, it simply didn't happen. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] The whole topic: Efficacy orientation, modern approaches – unfortunately, this is not possible from the outset for the next twelve years. The new President of the Court of Auditors will have to make a change of role, which will certainly not be so easy for her. If you worked for 13 years in a political office for someone who was a national captain's deputy, that's a lobby in which you worked. The Court of Auditors needs inadequacies, a certain degree of contentiousness and, yes, representativeness, because it is ultimately a public institution which is also publicly positioning itself and which can also produce a public pressure and also needs to be seen when it comes to the necessary reforms in Austria. – Too bad it would have fit well into the new concept. Do you know what anti-democratic is, Mr. Cap? – If Members only make themselves a shift of party political decisions! One can perceive such hearings and the results from them quite differently, namely as an individual decision and not as a club decision. This only works in combination of club force with packaging. And you can also think about whether we are not much stronger, including you as a member of a government party, as individuals in such a process, where you simply get to know people in the hearing and then draw a consequence from it. Unfortunately, that was not the case, and that is unfortunate. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] By the way, the faces of the SPÖ collegiates in the committee have spoken volumes, but only on the verge. Let us now come to the proposals on the future! I believe that such a thing as hearings from ministers can already have an effect in prevention, namely, a positive effect. In the European Parliament you really have to vote these hearings, because you have to prove professional qualifications, because you really have to do it, otherwise you will not become Commissioner or Commissioner. Our government transformations usually go down to party logic. The last side of the ÖVP, for example – I'm just saying – is: A head of state arranges his own succession, so to speak, withdraws the Lower Austrian minister and sends back a Low Austrian minister. So this has nothing to do with a qualification or with a discussion on qualification. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] – I don’t understand that you can be against it. Andersrum for SPÖ governance: It was not possible for us to get a comprehensive picture of the new members of the government. There were 35 minutes of presentation from your side, but the new ministers had two or three minutes each. [[towards SPÖ]] We couldn't ask any questions. – I believe that it is simply essential to be able to start a dialogue with a new minister. You can't be against it. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Now the ORF on: Yes, you are right, of course, there is more than just the presentation in a public hearing – but why not? You can also try this and try out what effect it has. But being naïve?- Oh, my God! What we all experience here is how the campaign is carried out, from a different point of view, is that you all know, party-political election, in conjunction with the parties. This is a political decision, a political decision at the moment. You can also think about it a little longer in the longer term, as you put it a little more modern. The composition, the form of how the staff order in the ORF takes place, as it goes, is internationally unique and in the past has also led to the fact that for many years down to the last pot plant a black and blue division in the ORF was the result.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15085	Next speaker: Mrs Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15106	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap! With great amazement, I heard the song of praise on the ORF, the song of praise on Dr. Wrabetz. I wonder if Dr. Wrabetz has been so committed to you in your election campaign, because, as we know, he has organized this for you. [[Rejoicing with the Stronach team]] – Just to explain once how close the link between the party, SPÖ, and ORF is. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said in your speech that you feel the expectations of the people! These expectations, of course, refer to the end of the standstill first and, secondly, the end of the pack of posts and functions in that country. – Those who have been with us in the last few days have come to know how this poster continues. I tell you, even in the situation when you proposed to your candidates, it was clear to us that there is this pact – I believe, even the SPÖ has proposed Mrs Kraker – which concerns both the Court of Auditors and the ORF, because the ORF is, and we all know, the mode of play of the SPÖ, the playing field of power, the playing field of politics. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Cap: That's not true!]] I quote your own former National Councillor Kratky, who meant: “For us, broadcasting and television are power questions (... )’ He made it quite clear. The Federal Chancellor has said today that it is important that the company writes black numbers. – Okay, here I am with you, but black numbers are the one – a red policy is the other, and on the other hand we keep our trust! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Wheeler.]] We want a broadcasting, a public-law radio, the over-party, the impartial, and who does not make his own policy by influencing people in their opinion and making opinions in a political direction! Ladies and gentlemen! How closely this linkage is, one sees that even today every important item is still politically occupied, that reporting in the ORF is still tending and that the SPÖ there has the centre of its media policy. We stand for freedom of expression, we support the fact that those people who pay forced fees – and that is, at least, 600 million who are paid by people – can also say that they can decide that they have a right to attend the hearing, as Mr Strolz says. We also take a step further and say: Why can't you decide by means of a choice of letters? Why can't you vote about people, about teams, about programs? It is not only about running a company, but also about fulfilling the public service mandate, it is about allowing freedom of expression in that country, and not about running party policy from the ORF. I say to you that in recent months we have experienced party politics, for example, as your predecessor, Federal Chancellor Faymann, in the mission “In the Centre” had an hour to explain his political position, or as one of six presidential candidates was invited, because a few journalists were of the opinion, he did not fit into the concept, they did not want to have it, or as Presidential candidate Hofer was put into lie with intended or not intended bad search. – These are processes we don’t want! We want fair reporting! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as representatives of Greens and NEOS.]] How seriously the ÖVP means by the word “independence” has already amazed me when Secretary General Peter McDonald meant that an independent body would decide there. – Ladies and gentlemen, how far away are you from reality, a body that has 91.5 percent of party soldiers, of people who are in close contact with parties where consultation is to be considered independent?- Oh, my God! From our point of view, this is absolutely also a political body. This is the hand that Mr Lopatka will then take over and say: [[stretching the left arm from the body]] So and so we decide! I'm surprised when I'm the head of state. Sagittarius thinks he can imagine supporting General Wrabetz. I'll see what's going to happen in the Styria, whether the Landes-ORF boss is going to be back on the deal, whether you're trying to find another person that's optimal for yourself in reporting so that it's suitable for the politically powerful. [[Abg. Singer: The New Deal is always on sale!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The strength of the connection between SPÖ and ORF may be very clear in some names: Broukal Josef, Coudenhove-Kalergi, Dittlbacher Fritz, Eugen Freund, Thomas Fuhrmann, Raimund Löw. This list would continue for a long time; all SPÖ party officials who came to the ORF via the party rail and report “independent” there. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is high time to redesign the ORF. It is high time to involve those who finance him in the decision and give them more power. Whoever pays, creates!, not: Whoever packs comes to it! is the motto we stand for, and I would like us to be able to implement it in the ORF.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15211	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15233	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we all agree that this hearing has brought a whole new quality to Parliament. We agree, I believe, that it was good and important. I'm having eight hours of food and can say that you already had the opportunity to take a picture of the candidates you might not have had before, that you can't read from their CVs, perhaps not even from their work experience or from what was obvious. You can see how people present themselves, what they have for a passion and what they really can tell authentically. There have also been some exciting things, namely: Who really takes his candidate seriously?; if one could have suspected that others might have been introduced as counting candidates. I have experienced that all of these have actually done so with great seriosity. Some were better prepared than others, you can say quite openly, you have also experienced that. For example, Gerhard Steger has been able to present his extensive expertise in his performance and, I believe, has impressed everyone. You have to be able to say that. But one has also seen who has the necessary spirit, who really wants to change something in the Court of Auditors, who has the desire to change who wants to bring something new in. One has noticed that some may want to manage rather than design, others have a whole new style. I have to say that our candidate, Viktoria Kickinger, as well as Wolfram Proksch, must have brought something else in, but sometimes it's good. That must have brought a few things out of the concept, but it's also nice to hear how things could be handled differently. The basic problem, however, is that hearing can't solve something: Even if you have the best questions and in a public hearing ask the best candidates difficult questions, this does not solve the problem if you have never had an interest in choosing or ordering the best candidate. Mr Cap, if you say that's not a package, that's democracy, then you have to say: It may be that democracy is just as you practice it in your unhappy marriage to the EIA, but it is, I believe, not democracy as we understand it. You even said it on TV. You said in the “In the Centre” mission that realism was also a form of sadness, and I think that was meant by it somehow. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The nice thing about this hearing, however, was that it was public. Everyone has seen what happened, all observers have seen that Mr. Steger was the best-qualified and best-qualified candidate. [[Abg. That's absurd!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true!]] . All of them agreed, including in your group, Mr Strache. But You weren't even at the hearing, how do you want to know? [[Abg. Strache: But my members were there, they say the opposite!]] But yes. It was never the goal to find the best qualified candidates. Every newspaper has written: Packery, calcule, deals; probably no New Deal, originally meant by it. You have to ask yourself if this isn't a little unpleasant and perhaps a little embarrassing! When the “Kurier” writes: “What a farce!” then, I mean, you have to feel a little unwell when you’re downgrading a hearing to a show and creating space for post chess. We want the public to be even more involved in future hearings, so that you really make access as low as possible by transferring it live to ORF III on TV. Well, maybe there's a couple more watching than maybe at a plenary session, you don't know. Federal Chancellor! They said a hearing can't be a cure. I don't think anyone wanted to say or claim that, but I think that what we want to achieve is that a hearing should actually be just a part of a new process finding, how to occupy such posts. In principle, there must be new processes for such a type of post, transparent processes, with international calls for tenders, for example. There are different ideas that can still flow in there. A hearing is not a panacea, it should be the minimum you have to do. It may not change anything, but it will cause us to think differently in principle, because then the public will finally learn how to deal with such posts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15307	The next item is Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15328	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zanger, could it be that at the beginning of your speech I heard a bit of jealousy about Mr Strolz because Mr Cap offered to meet with him personally and not with you? – But we will try to organize that, that he will meet you too. [[Abg. Singer: What are your problems?]] We have already heard a lot about the issue of ORF, how the ORF Director-General is appointed through the Foundation Council. I also have great confidence in the various Councils of the Foundation, and I think that Mr Strolz's proposal to transfer this hearing to ORF III is quite sensible and practical. This would also contribute to greater transparency. A fitness that the Director-General also needs – there are many different professional qualifications that are necessary here; I just want to highlight one –: This is precisely the rule that, after a political function, it is not possible to enter the company for at least four years. This is not unimportant in order not to allow for politicization. As an art and cultural speaker of the SPÖ, I have of course had several contacts with individuals in the ORF over the past two years. It was never, however, to influence content, but only to control whether the ORF fulfils its public mission in the field of education and, above all, in the field of culture. I wonder, Mrs Dietrich: Where has your support been in the last two years, when I have pointed out that the cultural mission has to be fulfilled? Nevertheless, with Director-General Wrabetz, it has succeeded in significantly increasing the proportion of Austrian art and culture in the ORF and thus fulfilling the public-law mission. Starting at the ORF III division channel Culture and information, which was successfully established, are also shown high-quality cultural highlights such as the New Year's Concerto, the Summer Night Concerto or the live broadcasts from all major local festivals, from the events in Grafenegg to the Bregenzer Festival to the Salzburg Festival. In addition, there are comprehensive current cultural information in formats such as “Culturmontag”, “Aviso” or even current reports in the “Time in the Image”. Conchita Wurst's victory at the Eurovision Song Contest 2014 brought the world's largest entertainment show to Austria, which was successfully performed by ORF as a sustainable and barrier-free event under the motto "Building Bridges", while also providing a small boost to the local music industry. Austria's most popular radio station Hitradio Ö3 has been playing 15 percent Austrian music since August 2015 because the public-law cultural order has to be fulfilled. There is a programme of its own on the topic of Austrian music only. The award of Austria's largest music award, the Amadeus Austrian Music Awards, will be presented live again in the ORF from 2017 onwards, exactly where he belongs, on public-law television. On all these issues – and I would like to stress this too – Director-General Wrabetz has always tried to fulfill the public-law cultural mandate and to be a good partner of the Austrian music industry. But also the Austrian film industry gets enough space in the ORF. The ORF presents successful films and series from Austria with series such as “Quickly Determined”, “Vorstadtweiber”, “Old Money” or successful films such as “The Miracle of Carinthia” and “The Dark Valley”. Since 2007, productions with ORF participations have been awarded with the highest international film prizes such as the Oscar, the Emmy, the Golden Globe, and also the Austrian Film Award. The fact that the ORF will continue to be a reliable partner for the Austrian film industry has held a joint agreement last year and volunteered to invest a total of €300 million in the Austrian film industry over the next three years. Thus, from the point of view of the art and cultural speaker, the public-law mission is fully fulfilled. Of course, digitization does not pass the ORF either. Therefore, I can only congratulate the implementation of the new media strategy in the field of online and new media, keyword: Expansion of the TV library, successful apps, participation in Flimmit and further innovations in the field of radio. As Members of Parliament who come from Styria, I am of course pleased to see the strengthening of the ORF country studios and more regional programme directly from the regions. Congratulations to the ORF on the successful launch of early television “Good morning Austria”! I have now only addressed the fields of art and culture, digitisation and programme from the regions, and I have just answered the question of how the public service contract is being fulfilled. Performance must be recognized – exactly! – and the performance in this field has been well done by Alexander Wrabetz over the last ten years. For me, therefore, there is no question that anything should change unless we transfer the hearings in addition to the ORF live. But what we must do is help to ensure that the ORF can work successfully in the future in the world of digitalization. For me, this includes the following two points – for temporary reasons only more briefly in keywords –: I am quite clear about a fee-refunding and also quite clearly about a stronger operating capacity of the ORF on the social platforms on the Internet. Keywords: Second Screen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15367	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15388	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen. As an entrepreneur, a professional job assignment is very much at my heart. It must be based on technical criteria and, of course, can be comprehensible in the case of public occupations. I wonder, however, my colleague Strolz, your enthusiasm for hearings, for that is not the cure. You always set private standards. You can rightly compare the ORF to private economic criteria. But we all know that at international top companies, hearing is a first selection procedure to reduce the number of candidates. We know that from McKinsey to BASF, companies check the expertise of the heart and kidneys that targets and visions are researched through project preparation and leadership qualities are tested in the Assessment Center. Even a district head of the Chamber of Commerce, which you so often criticised, passes through a three-stage selection procedure: a hearing by external experts, then a professional and management competence test and finally a regional project work. I imagine this under a reasonable selection procedure. In a hearing you can only test the communication skills, but not the essential management qualifications. In my opinion, the most important management function is employee management and employee motivation, as well as organisational development and, of course, professional competence. A top manager doesn't have to be media-friendly or a showman, and I hope that all those who sit in here and have the right say in any post crews will be able to look at the management qualities of the candidates and not be fooled by blenders with supposed 200 percent self-confidence. The Foundation Councils have proved in the past that they do high-quality work. They do not need a policy definition, because they can decide for themselves how to carry out the hearing and whether they make it public. But one thing I would also like to bear in mind: The ORF is located in a brilliant period of change in the media landscape, and the question is how it will be best placed in the future. We also need to ensure that the potential candidate does not disclose the strategies for reorientation to the public in a hearing, because, I think, the competitor does not have to learn about the media. We also need to consider: How do we protect potential candidates?, because we all know that such public hearings can destroy careers for the future. Foundation councils have many opportunities to learn in detail about the qualifications of the candidates. The television viewer, on the other hand, can only assess media suitability and communication capability. Mr Strolz, because of your professional experience, you know that 7 percent content and 55 percent visual impression arrive at the audience in a presentation. This is, honestly, too short for a top position. I think we need In addition to a hearing, there are other selection criteria, as is the case in the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15436	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15458	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! It's a shame that Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern has run away now, I'd like to... [[German Chancellor Kern - standing in the rear SPÖ series - draws attention to himself by winking.]] - Ah there! Very good, wonderful. I think it's already important to get a little bit into the right light. Hearings, as far as the urgent request is concerned, is perfectly good and right, as you can discuss different areas. It was good to handle the appointment of the new President of the Court of Auditors in such a way that there was a hearing. Only to counter any legendal formations here: We were present with our six committee members all the time, because this has often been presented a little differently. They have also been able to take a picture. [[Abg. Kuntzl: They weren't there!]] Precisely because I also had something important to do, such as an election challenge thanks to certain illegalities, which must not be allowed to go through. But that is why there are also members who have been able to take a picture of someone as a representative, all six, including up to the end. You won't tell us how these will eventually evaluate a hearing for themselves, or put your opinion on them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has nothing to do with democracy. And that's exactly how you tried to represent it. Mrs Hakel said earlier, four years of cooling. – Thank you for praising us, we have decided. That was a good and right decision, because that is also necessary. Respect for all the candidates who put themselves in the hearing, because everyone has their qualifications and their expertise – one more, the other less – but, Mr. Cap, in our ranks, Mr. Steger was not the best of the professional qualifications. We have said from the outset – including Mr Zanger; don't put something into his mouth that he didn't say, that's exactly this unreasonable game that is being run over and over again – but that can't be the new deal and the good style that a SPÖ government party as chancellor party turns a SPÖ party member into the President-in-Office of the Council to control itself in the field of public conduct. [[Abg. Moser: How was Moser then? ...!]] But that's exactly the new deal. For this, the Greens and the NEOS with the Reds were in a deal, in a package to ensure that. That's a bad style! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's a bad style. You from the Greens, the NEOS and the SPÖ have missed the opportunity to finally ensure in the Court of Auditors an extra-party candidate, including with professional qualifications. That's exactly what it was about! And that was the missed opportunity to ensure, finally away from a red party representative and away from a black party representative, a party-independent President of the Court of Auditors. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Mayer and Mr Moser.]] Unfortunately this has not become possible thanks to your style here, because then the ÖVP has recognized: No, we have the SPÖ under pressure, so to speak! Before it becomes a party-independent candidate, we will put the SPÖ under such pressure that she prefers to choose an ÖVP candidate! That was the result – probably in connection with the ORF, where they said each other: Well, friends, you support us there, and for that we will support you there, and then we have to hold further negotiations and talks! That's what it's all about. And that's the background of history. If then the “Kurier” is quoted, Mr. Brandstätter, who has almost joined the former Chancellor Faymann for the past few years in order to hopefully become ORF General Director – I do not know whether he has already done this to the new Chancellor, I would trust it to the Brandtätter – but to take it as a witness, because he wants to continue to serve the SPÖ and perhaps the new Chancellor and has praised Mr. Steger to heaven, after all, that is very bad and not necessarily a new and good style to quote and try him there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this way, we should talk if partyism is already a topic: Yes, the ORF has to do with partyism, including democracy. No question, public-law order. If the ORF Foundation Councils are already occupied on the basis of elections and are partly nominated by parties, then you have to consider: Is this even in the sense of democratic election results today or not? Once again, I recognize a very bad relationship to the opinion and choice of the Austrian population when I look at the occupation there. In this way, one has to debate honestly and discuss what legal changes would be necessary in order to make it fairer and, in the sense of democratic electoral results, to amend them accordingly. And it is also to be considered how to deal with a public-law transmitter in the future and how to ensure that there is no party policy, that the objectivity bid is guaranteed there in the sense of the public-law order, and that perhaps even there or there the compulsory fees are called into question. Then you have to decide: Do you like to use the advertising time for yourself or just the forced fees? There is also a need to discuss this. In any event, it cannot continue in this form, there is of course also the need for action. To conclude, perhaps the following: The opportunity that has been missed is to experience an independent candidate as the President of the Court of Auditors. That's the chance that's been missed. Now you can talk about fines. I say, the choice between plague and cholera: Will it be a SPÖ candidate or an ÖVP candidate? – This is not really what should be the case. It should have been true that the government parties, if they were to live a new style, should have been able to ensure that an independent candidate, who expressly does not come from the government parties, would have become the new President of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Then that would be the new style and then that would be the style that can also be made sure that the public conduct and the fact that this government is dealing with public taxpayers are considered critical. This opportunity has been missed. That we have made it clear from the outset that neither for the one government party nor for the other government party we are going to play the uplifter, that is our consistent policy on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15559	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15580	Madam President. There were several findings of this hearing. The first is that we have a new anti-hearing party in Parliament – I welcome the ÖVP. You have found that with the hearing was a little stupid idea, because if you have to explain afterwards that what you have said before is automatically the best, it will be difficult. I also saw the interview of Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka in the “ZiB 2” or the “ZiB 1” – I think it was broadcast in the “ZiB 2”. In the corner of the hall was, after having been clearly reported what was the impression of the journalists, what was the impression of the public, Mr. Lopatka, who meant, there is a single decision: The two candidates we nominated were by far the best. One of them has been chosen stop. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] However, one must congratulate Clubobmann Lopatka in principle: It was already a “tricky plan”. I mean, we know each other. The plan was already good this time, you have to say he went up pretty well. So you nominate two, which you nominate so early before the government partner is still there, where that is not a criterion, and then always one where you know exactly, that is the absolute fight against the government partner – that was Mrs. Berger – and as the second one you take “one of us”. – I don’t know, Mr Lopatka, is it true that sometime the saying has fallen, it will also become “one of us”? Could it be that this once fell? Then it will hold “one of us, ” namely, you. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] That was already tricky set up. [[Abg. Wheelers: You have to think bigger already!]] So “of us” is someone inside, so the Lopatka plan has gone up. It's gonna be stupid to tell you, there's someone else who's been playing in all the troubles. But the hearing has already brought clear benefits. I mean, deals can't be prevented, but they'll be transparent. That's the advantage of bringing with hearings. That is what we should insist on in the future. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] Now there are a few others, for example the FPÖ, because they also had a deal, namely, with Mr Lopatka. Now the question is: Do you want to make deals with Mr. Lopatka? And then what remains? So this story with the Court of Auditors versus ORF is going to be exciting now because it seems not quite gone. It's going to be very exciting how it's going on now. Now you've opened up the area with the SPÖ, with the FPÖ, so the friend of all parliamentarians, Reinhold Lopatka, will already see who else he's making some deals with. However, he has already used something that Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern has opened up to him, because the fact that German Chancellor Kern has interfered with the occupation and defined himself as Federal Chancellor, who is then to be the Court of Auditors, was a cardinal mistake. Now Mr Lopatka is nodding, because at the moment when the Federal Chancellor said this, Mr Lopatka has acknowledged: The revanche for the phone cell, ha, she's here! Now she's going out! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] I didn't have to wait long. Now he's given me the point. Federal Chancellor Kern has supplied the definition. He said who it was to be: It's supposed to be someone who doesn't come from a police office. - Wonderful! So 13 years of shooters, that's probably not a political office – I don't know how to discuss it at SPÖ – that's probably somewhere else. [[Abg. Lopatka: Steger was never in a political office?]] – The SPÖ did not want to nominate it at all! That was a different situation. [[Abg. Lopatka: Aha, that was a different situation! Another problem! So there's no police office?]] [[Abg. Lausch: The van der Bellen is...!]] – 13 years of Politbüro Schützenhofer have been the destination elsewhere. Mr. Kern wasn't at all... [[Abg. Lopatka: Selective perception! Very selective perception!]] – Listen now! Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern was not at all happy with the fact that Mr. Steger was nominated. This was not a bad move by Mr Lugar or by Mrs Dietrich to nominate Mr Steger, you really have to say that otherwise the SPÖ would probably not have nominated itself in the situation of Steger. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Eh not!]] There once came a lot of things in motion, and that's when two were there. – No, I say yes, that was a really good move, because otherwise there might not have been the possibility that Mr. Steger would have come along at all. [[Abg. Lugar:... candidates nominated! What's surprising about that?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lugar and Mr Lopatka.]] It has come out that Mr Steger – and I appreciate this for personalities – has proved, although he has a clear political origin, that he does not act in the political sense of the party. [[Abg. Lopatka: You appreciate this: a clear political origin!]] – Yes, I appreciate a clear political origin. I have nothing against that either, because I believe that this applies to all parliamentarians. That wouldn't be unusual right now. If you'd been listening, you'd know I said, I appreciate someone who has a clear political origin and yet has proved that he is not acting in the political sense of the party. – And you cannot blame Mr Steger with all probability. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr Brosz, then I have a question: why then was it not possible for Member Moser to run?]] I know that this is unpleasant, but otherwise you are not Mundfaul, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, you can use the speaking time before you send down the anti-hearing speakers of your group and explain why we will not do this with the hearing in the future. [[Abg. Lopatka: I would have been for Dr. Moser!]] That's understandable, too. Then we come to the ORF: It's gonna be exciting what's going to happen there. Now it may not have happened quite that way. Let's see if the plan of Lopatka goes up and if everyone in the ÖVP will be so happy when you see that you don't necessarily drive him into the good alleys, but rather into the dead alleys. What is particularly amusing at the ORF is that the idea for ÖVP and SPÖ is almost dissuasive that one chooses an ORF general director without de facto deciding to employ 90 percent of people politically occupied by parties – by the government or otherwise. Mr. Federal Minister Drozda, your predecessor, Josef Ostermayer, has always stressed that a different system from that of putting party representatives in the ORF, who then decide according to friends, according to party political criteria, who it will be, is almost democratically not legitimate. That's the absurd idea for me! But I admit: We have a problem with civil society in Austria. I define them differently from this variant with the Austrian specificities, namely that there is no party-political question, so that all questions are divided into red and black from the Sportverein to the Autodriververein to the Bienenzochterverein. We have a problem here, unlike in Germany, you already have to find out. In Germany, they solved the problem: Mr. Raue of the Central German Radio was recently at the “DialogForum” of the ORF and described how the intentional election is to take place there. There are 43 persons entitled to vote. Now we can say even more than we do, perhaps too many, but there is a civil society that is not party-politically assigned. It was a very clear statement: There begins an intentional election, and no one knows what comes to the end. There are hearings and there is a decision made on the basis of decisions that are understandable, who will then be intentional. It would be desirable for this to happen at some point in Austria and perhaps to create a structure in which not all of these things are in the hands of party politics. This is not possible at the SPÖ or at the ÖVP, nor at the FPÖ, which was always opposed. We agree relatively with the NEOS. You can still discuss what the model looks like, but it's important that you get away from the fact that friends are crucial. Klubobmann Strache has, I think, just said that one should occupy it even more in terms of the election result. So this is relatively simple: If we orientate this to the main committee, he will probably vote directly, because then we would have responded to the results of the election! This is a bit difficult with federalism, and they don't come in either, so you have to keep it somehow. If you think so, there will be no change. [[Abg. Fekter:... Nominate candidates who are not elected!]] The corresponding positions in the ORF should really be occupied in such a way that candidates are elected by persons who do not have party-political ties that can decide as far as possible independently of them. That would be the goal for the future development of the ORF.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15790	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15812	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The events surrounding the election of the new President of the Court of Auditors were not a glorious one. Red and black played tactically. [[Abg. Rädler: (by hand first into one, then into the other direction) The Stronach team: once so, once so!]] The top tacticer and master tricker Lopatka is playing again now. But they have done nothing good to themselves, to parliamentarianism, democracy and, above all, to Austrian taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The Court of Auditors or its President can also be seen as the taxpayer's lawyer, who takes care of the hard-earned money of taxpayers, through which the government is also to be controlled and whose recommendations are to be implemented more often. Throwing out the money with full hands, if it's not your own, is easy, but it's hard to earn. [[Abg. Lopatka: What does it have to do with the taxpayer?]] – You are welcome to speak, Mr Lopatka. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lopatka.]] I wonder why you are so calm today and have not yet spoken in the debate. [[Abg. Lopatka: You mean the climber would have done this better?]] [[Abg. Fekter:... a woman? That's a shame!]] Let's go on! If mutual debt allocations come from the government parties – I have a microphone, I'm going to be louder and louder – then you're not doing anything good yourself, I've already mentioned that. [[Abg. Lopatka: You wanted Steger? Who's your favorite?]] The question that is now being addressed by my side to SPÖ, because it has so far been unanswered – also in the mission “60 minutes.Politics” was given last week by your representative Elmar Mayer none answer – says: If you could not agree on Steger, why could you not agree at least on the second best choice, on Mrs Mag. Berger? I don't think you can agree on her qualification. She worked for years as an independent judge, then she was in the Court of Auditors, worked well with the House, was in the cabinet of Dr. Moser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] I do not understand why the SPÖ then refused to accept this proposal. There would have been a broad majority for this: This candidate would have been elected by a majority of at least four parties. This would certainly have been the better solution for the Court of Auditors, for the House and for parliamentarianism than for the third, fourth and fifth best qualified candidate. That was a deal, a cow deal – a old deal, not a new deal. As we have heard in the debate today – and not only today, but also in the past few days and weeks – this is about the post-occupying in the ORF leadership. In August, it's elected, and that's an exchange. This, ladies and gentlemen, must be said again to the people, to the spectators and to the spectators, because this is not something that cannot be contradicted; it must be exposed. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes!]] That's really not all right, but let me take a brief look at the ORF now! The ORF, ladies and gentlemen, does not comply with its public service mandate in many areas. I would also like to give a specific example – it has been mentioned by my colleague Waltraud Dietrich today – which is what it looks like with the democratic understanding of the ORF: A candidate for the ORF's presidential election is simply not invited, because it is not considered relevant. They call on two studies, the editors decide that, opinion researchers are interviewed – and he is not invited! This presidential candidate – Richard Lugner – has collected the necessary declarations of support as well as the other candidates and has the same right to participate in the discussion in the ORF. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a massive incision on the part of the ORF, and this must never happen again! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] Since there are loud calls for call, my colleague, I can tell you the following: This approach was “democracy-politically worrying”. – Who made this statement? – From the presidential candidate dog torfer! He referred to this approach of the ORF as “democracy policy questionable”. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lugar: That's exactly how it was!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we see in this debate that there is a great need for discussion, but also a great need for action. If I present the debate today – it is still going on – then I can only say: It was good that NEOS made this urgent request today. Klubobmann Strolz has very well founded him and explained this very well, also with regard to the public hearing and its transfer to ORF III. We are, of course, fully on your side, and I also think it is positive that German Chancellor Kern has meant, that he is positive about this and will work for it in the Foundation Council. I hope that it will not only remain in speaking again, but that something will also be done and implemented, because beautiful words we hear enough. We always hear: We want more transparency, we want more citizenship, we want this, we want it. But when it comes to concrete implementations, I do not know if there is a hearing, I do not know if it is transferred to ORF III, nor do I know to what extent the fee payers are involved in this important decision. – Numbers are allowed, they are not allowed to decide. Finally, I would like to reaffirm the proposal concerning the election of letters, which my colleague Waltraud Dietrich also made. The Austrians pay 600 million for the ORF and can therefore also expect them to have a say on the one hand, on the other hand also receive a successful programme and that the ORF will comply with its public-law mandate and that all political parties will be able to find themselves in the same extent in the broadcasts and not only will be made explicitly red radio and red government policy, as we have seen in the recent past, when the former chancellor has received an hour of interest. I am curious when our clubman gets an hour of interest or the clubman of the FPÖ or perhaps also the green or maybe Matthias Strolz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e15996	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16017	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I also think the debate is so important because we have now addressed so different areas in which greater transparency would be needed, where more information would be needed for the population and where hearing would be needed. In our request we have also referred to the issue of the appointment of the constitutional judges and the question of the Minister-Hearings. I think of a situation in recent years in which a hearing would also have been very important: Mr. Federal Minister Drozda, it will most likely not affect you, because the next time we are ordering an EGMR judge in nine years, I thought this would be very significant at the time. We discussed with your predecessor in the Constitutional Committee and asked – at that time my colleague, Mr Musiol and I – how he came to this proposal for a threesome, and he has always said that he cannot tell us. We then asked ourselves further: How does that work? – There was obviously a hearing in the Federal Government, but the public was not involved. It was so particularly interesting because the result of this hearing was, of course, a threesome proposal, with two candidates belonging to the ÖVP and one candidate of the SPÖ – the candidate, by the way – during one of the most renowned human rightsists in Austria, Professor Tretter, without any reason – no one knows yet, why – did not appear in this threesome proposal. It is typical of how this is going, and it is so very embarrassing because, when we look at the directives of the Council of Europe Parliament, we see that Austria is miles away from a transparent, objective order mechanism. It is similar, as we have mentioned in our request, also with regard to the constitutional judges. The Federal Chancellor meant that he could well imagine that we were making a hearing there; I hope that he will then also influence the colleagues of SPÖ. There is now a hearing again and again, but only out of goodwill. Last time there was a discussion on the appointment of a replacement member of the VfGH. Then there was no hearing that I didn't understand. We have also made a request on this subject today and have it assigned to the Constitutional Committee. I thought it very useful if such a hearing would be desired in the future, because that is also quite normal in other countries. In the United States, for example, the hearing for judges to the Supreme Court is also broadcast on television. There is a hearing in front of the committee, and it would also be quite normal and logical for us to make it transparent, especially when it comes to the highest judges in a state. We also wish for transparency in the appointment of ministers. We are not – because the SPÖ, including Mr Weninger and Mr Wittmann, always reacts to this kind of allergic – about the decision, but it is about public and transparency. You know that the last government reforms were at least misunderstandings in the population. Many have asked me how it can happen that Minister Sobotka comes to the government. We know the reasons in many areas. I also found it annoying – and I think you simply have to explain – how it can be that Federal Minister Stöger – and I don't want to agree on the qualification at all, but at least it's surprising – takes over three different ministerial offices within a short time. I think this is at least surprising, and such a thing could be brought to the public in a hearing. That is what the European Parliament is doing, and that is quite normal. As I said, it is not a question of making a decision in such a hearing, but simply of discussing these things transparently in the public, because this would create much more understanding. Moreover, the outgoing President of the Court of Auditors, Moser, has proposed exactly that in today's press conference, and I think it would be very useful if we could follow him on this and implement it accordingly. I think there are many other areas where hearings and more public would be useful. We had such a situation at the time when the supervisory councils of the ÖIAG were re-appointed; we also strongly criticized that there is no transparent order mechanism and mode. I believe that these are all things that we need to bring to the public and that we need to create more transparency. Mr. Federal Minister Drozda, since you are already here: You have announced that you want to adopt the Freedom of Information Act after three years of negotiation, but nothing has yet to continue, in autumn. This too is an essential and positive contribution to comprehensive transparency. I take you by the word and hope that we can implement it accordingly by autumn and finally abolish this antique secret of office, which is still from the monarchy and that almost tells the citizens that they have no right to know what the administration is doing. Mrs. Fekter has made a wonderful call to intercede, which inspires me to tell a short story. You have called in, you sit on the right side. This reminded me of the former coach of the Austrian national team Josef Hickersberger, who once said he did not call the best players into his cadre, but the right one. – This is precisely the wrong understanding, which unfortunately also prevails here, especially with SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: But the comparison is limping!]] It is not about ordering the best, but it is about ordering those who are most right for their own party. That's what you're doing all the time, and I think this is wrong, because it's not about party interests, but about us getting the best out for the country. In order for us to be able to leave this in the future and finally to end this post chess, which SPÖ and ÖVP have been operating here for decades, we should consider in the future that we should first of all get the best and not the right ones and that, secondly, it is no longer a matter whether you know anyone, but whether you can do something and have the qualification for the corresponding office.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16101	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16122	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return once again to the title of the urgent request. It reads: “Concerning new style through transparent, professional and objective occupation”. I would like to discuss this in particular with regard to the ORF. Why do we even need a public-law ORF? That's where history goes far back, and the prototype, the example we've been looking at with the ORF, was finally the BBC. The BBC has identified three criteria and three structural elements, which have a model function and still apply today. That is, on the one hand, this non-profit orientation to have a discussion and independent reporting, on the other hand, the representation – that is the strain on it – of socially relevant groups on supervisory councils and bodies to ensure that all these groups are represented and also taken into account in reporting, and thirdly, the defined public order for diversity of opinion and balanced reporting. These principles still apply to our ORF today, and I would like to break a lance for the ORF, because that sounds like it all the time now and has been presented in some speeches as if many things that happen there are not transparent. We have jointly adopted an ORF law in which we have regulated many things, for example in § 22 that the Director-General is appointed by the Foundation Council, and we are already coming to the composition of the Foundation Council, which is also clearly regulated. The Foundation Council is very large, yes. There are 35 people inside. Six members proposed by the Federal Government, each of which must be represented by the National Council. – So far to democracy. There are nine representatives of the countries, the public council is also represented, and what is also an essential aspect for me, including for cooperation with the ORF: Staff representatives are also part of the Foundation Council, which represents the staff of the ORF. The members of the Foundation Council, these are not any people who are simply ordered there or who come and say: I would like to become a member of the Foundation Council now!, but when ordering it is important to ensure that they have a personal and professional suitability that they have a corresponding training, a relevant professional experience is not bad and, above all, very important! – Knowledge of the Austrian and international media markets. – These are, I think, good basic conditions, so I assume that the best are in there. The Foundation Councils, and this has already been said by our Federal Chancellor in his speech, have the same duty of care and responsibility as Supervisory Board members of a stock company, and I do not think that they should be subordinated to them that they do not work properly there. In order to get away from politics and so that it is not too much connected with politics, there is even another regulation, which all cannot sit in the Foundation Council – I would just like to quote one point from the law –: “Members of the Federal Government, state secretaries, members of a state government, members of the National Council, the Federal Council (...) or the European Parliament (...), national lawyers, the President of the Court of Auditors and persons who have exercised one of the above functions within the last four years.” – There is a cooling phase, so that the political events are gone, and I am convinced that this is a good arrangement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] The position of the Director-General is now to be re-submitted, which is publicly advertised – to the extent that it is transparent – “Wiener Zeitung”, you know the procedure. Candidates must also prove what they can bring; they will imagine themselves in the Foundation Council, they will discuss their ideas there. If one can perhaps make a hearing in this regard in the Foundation Council and if this hearing may be public, that is the decision of the Foundation Council, and there are both you and Your member, as well as our members, and everyone else for their members, is calling on them to cooperate so that this can happen. I think that this is a positive aspect, and especially the ORF is one of the best-controlled institutions that we have. It shall be made available by the Court of Auditors, controlled by the Media Council, by the audience, by the Foundation Council and even by the Auditor. In 1974, with the Federal Constitutional Act, we set out the safeguarding of the independence of broadcasting in general and the definition of broadcasting as a public task – that is untouchable for us, but nevertheless it should be our task to bring some processes into the present time and simply to develop further.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16202	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16223	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! The current urgent request by NEOS is certainly very well meant and, as my clubman has already said, worth most of the support, but of course it must be said that this is in some way something like wishing for the Christkind, because, on the one hand, we already have some legal regulations in theory, according to the letters of the law, which theoretically demands an objectivation, the best people in the ORF; on the other hand, we have already discussed this for a long time, have not helped public hearing and transparency in the field of the Committee on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Transparency and ultimately won the package. It doesn't work in reality. However, this is much deeper, and this will probably not be solved with even more hearings and even more transparency, which is because of the lack of strength of our parliamentaryism, which is because we basically live in a ministerial democracy, in which the government groups depend primarily on their ministers and on the other side of the party. For me, it is clear that there will also be a pack in August, that even in the election to the ORF General Director in August, we will not experience the best, the most qualified, but the most politically arbitrary, and that the one will probably be called Alexander Wrabetz again. It is true, however, that the problems of the ORF are certainly more profound and not just about the way in which the Director-General's choice is chosen. Mr Cap said today that the ORF is so successful economically. – Unfortunately, I have to laugh out loud, because with €600 million in forced fees, it is certainly easy to make. It would be the same if one claimed that the ÖBB were an economically successful company. We all know how much we are paying in from the tax revenue, but this is obviously a socialist economic understanding. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ORF's right to broadcasting fees or to a large part of the broadcasting charges is absolutely to be questioned and we do not think we are justified for several reasons. On the one hand, the ORF is only more in line with the requirements set out in the ORF Act – that is, what a public-law radio broadcasting is, what content to produce and distribute – fulfils, especially in its stations ORF one and ORF 2. On the other hand, the richest radio station, Ö3, acts basically like a private station, one can see from the traffic information and some other news transmission. And the ORF has gone over the past few years and has just banned this public-law content into the division channels, which hardly have any reach. Basically, on the paper, Although it fulfils the public-law mandate there, it has in reality created a fig leaf solution, and the great reach is not achieved. This public-law mission, which has to be kept quite clearly, is therefore insufficiently fulfilled. In addition, in the news broadcasts, the objectivity bid is always violated, that it is tolerated by the ORF leadership that news editors, programme designers, for example, let their personal political opinion be incorporated into the reporting. A shining flagship, we all know, is the moderator of the “ZIB 2”, who on the one hand gives the left Moralapostel on Twitter, as a Twitter god, and on the other hand is hardly able to keep behind the mountain in the “ZIB” broadcast with his political opinion and also plays the Morala Pontel there. I think this is simply unworthy of a public-law radio. When you look at Germany, you see, there is no such thing there. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] What is more to think about in this area is – currently – the sports reporting: One cannot make a real professional report with abermillions, for example, compared to Swiss television, let alone German television, even if there is more money there, that is not a question; that is one. As far as peripheral sports are concerned, such as ice hockey, they do not occur in the ORF at all or very little, because you obviously do not want to play on a channel like servus TV and simply behave like a child, saying: What the others can do, we can't do that! For us, this means that the compulsory fees are more than in question. One should at all discuss whether or not ORF one and Ö3 are perhaps not completely released into the free market economy and only more promote those ORF programs – there are also country studios that work very well, very valuable programs such as Radio Carinthia or Radio Styria – which are absolutely in compliance with this public-law order, so the fees are only given there or the fees are distributed differently. We need to create these framework conditions as legislators, which I believe is quite clear. We have repeatedly tabled and will do so in the future, and I am looking forward to a good discussion in the Constitutional Committee. Finally, on the NEOS request concerning hearings, as regards ministers: We do not think this is good because we believe that the voter should decide. It has already been said by Mr Cap today, I think, that the ministers must in any case permanently stand up to the public and to the opposition in Parliament. And I think the chancellor – that would theoretically also meet the chancellor – should be elected. Just because a party is currently setting up a chancellor who has not been elected – that is, in my opinion, their problem – we do not necessarily have to introduce hearings. In this sense, I hope that the elections will be re-elected so that this situation can be corrected, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16296	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16318	Madam President. Dear Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot of audacious comments in the last week and here a few blatant speeches about how this all happened. Mr. Lopatka as Frank Underwood, the little master of the House of Card, this popular U.S. series, in which it is about a very intriguing, enthusiastic parliamentarian. [[Abg. Lopatka: Who is this?]] [[Call the ÖVP:Kevin Spacey!]] – Mr Lopatka smiles so gruesomely, he seems to like himself in this role of the intrigue. In fact, what is happening here...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16356	Madam President, I would ask you to take this accusation back, or I must give you a call for order for ‘intrigators’. [[Call to the Greens: Which accusation?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16386	I think I made a comparison, but I take it back. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: In the series he is intrigue!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I don't know exactly what the accusation was. I have said that Mr Lopatka seems to be in this role; he also smiles again very, very gruesome and believes that this is still a fun here. [[Abg. Lopatka: You took it back!]] In fact, it is not fun what is happening here, but it is a very sad episode for the Austrian Parliament, which has been happening here in the last ten days, and it should concern every individual Member of this House – you, Mr Pendl, as well as Mr Lopatka, as well as colleagues Berlakovich. This is the question of how this Parliament is dealing with this election with the very important position of the President of the Court of Auditors. I think we should all think about it: How seriously does a Parliament take such a show off? We invite for the first time to a public hearing, and the outcome of this hearing is obviously totally irrelevant to this Parliament's decision. The Members who have been mentioned are, of course, particularly the representatives of the two government groups. We have a position for the next twelve years – twelve years, as we have seen from today, three more national elections – which is a very, very far-reaching decision; it is about the highest control body in the Republic. This decision has been made in a way that is incredible when you look at it from the outside. It starts with how the hearing is handled. And I have to say one more thing – that would be a real correction according to the Rules of Procedure –: Mr Klubobmann Strache claimed that all six FPÖ members of the main committee had been present. - That's wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] The main committee member, Mr Strache, was not present at the hearing, and he is not present either now. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Sure! ...there were six members!]] Strache is a member of the main committee and as a clubman of the Free Parliament Club, has not shown the interest in attending this public hearing. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He announced the campaign!]] He's missing again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] – Mr Lopatka, I note who shows interest in who leads the Court of Auditors and who does not. I note that Mr Strache was not present. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Whoever of us sits in the main committee, you already have to leave us!]] – Mr Strache claimed that he was not a member of the main committee, but was a member of the main committee. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, he did not claim anything else!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Wöginger and Mr Lopatka.]] Let's go on: We had this hearing, there is a very, very clear result shared by journalists and journalists, by all observers, and yet the ÖVP, with the help of the SPÖ, which can be performed at the Nosenring, decides for a candidate who was really anything but convincing. At this point, I would like to refer again to an argument from the ÖVP series, which is now the anti-hearing party. [[Abg. Lopatka: Who understands this? ... Word creations!]] Especially in the role of the President of the Court of Auditors or the President of the Court of Auditors, the public effectiveness is very central. What is the role of the President of the Court of Auditors? – to make the recommendations for implementation. It is the responsibility of the President of the Court of Auditors or the President of the Court of Auditors to communicate to the public where there is something wrong in the Republic, where tax money is wasted, and also to pressure the necessary reforms to be addressed. This also requires appropriate publicity, and it is all the more important for this position to test it in a public hearing. [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, exactly!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: We did it anyway!]] So this argument about hearing, since we are not convinced that, I believe, is a very bad argument. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: She's a woman, and she's a director in the Styria...!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: The Greens have greatly praised Dr. Kraker in Styria! Thank you very much!]] [[Abg. Brosz:... not chosen if you are no longer aware!]] – Mr Lopatka, it is about nominating the best qualified person. [[Abg. Lopatka: But you did not vote against, Mr Brosz! There were no votes against! Always against the women!]] It was absolutely clear in this hearing – and that is what the members of your own party as well as SPÖ, the journalists and all those who have been able to observe this, including those who read Mr Steger's recommendations, will find that – Mr Steger was the best candidate by far, with clear ideas of where the Court of Auditors should go. I would now like to make an appeal to all Members at this point: This hearing was a blamage to ignore this result so clearly. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Your speech is a Blamage!]] We are making a mockery of the public – in front of the small public who were able to attend – and I would appeal to all the Members of this House to consider themselves by tomorrow, until the vote, which is actually the concept of the mandate and whether they really want to give up on this democratic party. [[Call to the ÖVP:Yes, this is true, you are ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: You didn't even create your own candidate!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16677	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16698	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! First of all, I would like to say a word to my previous speaker: Mrs. Colleague, all members of the National Council are members of the Main Committee – all members here, only for your information; please inform yourself! – and there were six members of the Freedom Party in the Main Committee. [[Abg. Brosz: There are six... members of the FPÖ, one of them is called Strache, and he was not in the main committee!]] Mr Klubobmann Strache has never claimed to be present. It has at the same time brought the challenge of the election. [[Abg. Brosz: The main committee member Strache was not present!]] That was the reason, and that's exactly what he said here – just for your information. So they're all members of the National Council members of the Main Committee – that's just for you. Read it if you don't know! Now to today's debate: I have to tell you quite honestly, I believe that for the television audience there is a whole, quite disastrous picture. This is just about dealing: Who's when, where, where, and with whom, what's going on, what's going on? This is the content of the debate we have held here today, and I must honestly say to you: You can only be ashamed of this policy, which is being made here. That's political pornography, what you're doing here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, it's nice that you're back here now, but you already have the impression that the deal has become much more, much more, since you've been Federal Chancellor. They are still surpassing the era of Vranitzky, the era climate, the era of Gusenbauer and the era of Faymann, because this image we, the Parliament, and especially you, the government factions, have given here today is really a sad picture. We should work to make it disappear very quickly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Very briefly, to the much praised, especially by the Greens, Mr Steger: I take note that he was the best in your eyes. I have to tell you honestly: not in my eyes, and therefore I have not chosen it either. It's simple! It is clear, of course, that when different people in the committee listen to a hearing and speak different people, not all see one as the very best, otherwise he would probably have been elected by a vast majority. And it can't be that the SPÖ found him so good, she didn't even propose him at the election. The constituency proposal came from other political groups. That's where the question arises: What's very good? What's outstanding? – Because it's writing a few newspapers, it doesn't mean he really brought the most outstanding qualification. - So much for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I come to what is actually stated in the proposal: It is about what the ORF General Director's election in August looks like. Yeah, the ORF's already a little bit disused, you've got to say that here, too. After all, the ORF has a public-law mission, it has an education and information contract, a cultural contract, and it has increasingly neglected this task in recent years. This order has been stepped more and more with feet, that is a fact, and that has happened under Wrabetz. - So much for it. I give you an example from the recent past: Last Saturday a young Austrian came to the semifinal for the first time in history at a race tennis game in Stuttgart, and the ORF did not manage to transfer it. ORF one exceeded the World Cup – well, that is understandable due to the importance of the event – in ORF 2 there was the whole morning 90. Queen's birthday – I don't know if this is the essential thing. Then you look at the ORF Sport + division station, and there is some golf game that was recorded. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That was the European Tour...! That's not a golf game!]] Now I wonder, quite honestly: Isn't it important to transfer in the ORF the tennis game of a young Austrian? And that's what the law is about. If you look at that, you see, according to § 4b para. 1 Z 7 ORF law shall be transferred to ‘sport competition (...) if such a transfer is a condition for an event of sports competitions in Austria (...)’ or if ‘Austrian athletes or teams’ participate in the competition. – So I believe that the ORF has completely failed to fulfil its mission. Then always comes the great excuse: Well, the rights, that's all so expensive! – Exciting: 24 hours later, the ORF obviously still bought the rights and showed passages from this game. – That’s just to show: It's not that way at ORF everything's going so great! That's to say, there's a massive breakdown. The so-called education mission, ladies and gentlemen, has long since given the ORF into the ORF III, where I really think this station is good – I would like to expressly mention it here – but it has hardly any reach, you have to say that already. The range of the ORF III is very low, and ORF III is obviously kept as a fig leaf, so that one can say that within the public-law channel the education order is carried out. One sometimes has the impression that if one looks into a private station, for example, one could take a lead in ServusTV, because there it will be fulfilled without ORF control and without public funding. The ORF, which collects these compulsory fees, only fulfils these criteria very marginally. These are a few hundred million euros a year, which are necessarily lifted by the spectators. In other words, the ORF is partly in competition with private channels – with a much higher budget. This should also be considered if you order a new tour in the ORF. The Federal Chancellor was out for a long time, Mr. Wrabetz is now also gone. He probably continued dealing and packing, which is due in the summer. That's exactly the impression. The Federal Chancellor, to whom a urgent request is addressed, marches and goes up to Mr Wrabetz, so that we then know what outcome we have in August.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16784	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now proceed to the vote on the self-employed amendment 1731/A(E) by Dr Strolz, colleagues on new style through transparent, professional and objective occupations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[17:21:36]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16817	I will resume the negotiations on item 4. Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, when he's there!]] I'll set you up for two minutes, deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16850	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We have a relatively incontrovertible law to negotiate. However, I would like to take the opportunity to point out the following: Unfortunately, in this House too, we often have the regret that the economic location is bad. However, by the example of this law and the underlying system, one can show how good it actually is. Austria is one of the few industrialized countries that have an almost perfect system of public administration in the field of the base book, the land bookcassette, which has digital maps. This is a soft fact – as you say so beautifully – for the question of how well companies can position and settle in Austria, how well they can expand and continue. In other countries alone, fundamental legal uncertainty is often a factor that concerns companies over years, the problems, also economic nature – provisions in balance sheets, process costs and the like – resulting from them. In this area, as in many others, Austria offers a very well-organized state of affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, with all the criticism that everything doesn't work: This state works better than you often represent it. Fortunately, our citizens often know it better than some opposition politicians. In this sense: This is a good law for a good location that proves itself here. We can do something, we will continue to perform well in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16883	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schellenbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16904	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I also refer to the novelle to the survey law. As I said, it is incontrovertible, it is a most necessary thing. It must be imagined that the system has grown historically. Since 1817 there have been surveying activities and catasters in the form of the basic tax register, and this has continued unchanged until 1968. It is only since 1968 that we have the border disaster, and since then there has actually been legal certainty over soil and soil. The transformation is so difficult for the reason, because in the old cascade system the natural state in front of the map, i.e. in front of the cataster, is valid. Only since 1968 do the paper form, i.e. the digital map before the natural state. It must be imagined, however, that this was then refined in 1993 with a deviation of 15 centimetres, and since 2010 we have been measuring exactly 5 centimetres. These systems are so to speak. The transmissions – from a great tolerance and legal uncertainty, whether natural or catastrophic – lead to the fact that these procedures are in principle problematic. The objection of a real estate owner against a new line of boundaries leads to the failure to reverse or the division in the border disaster cannot take place. The novelle regulates this in a very impressive way. They'll all be equal. If there is an objection, one will only be pre-loaded to the survey office with the one who turns in. The survey office gives a period of six weeks. If it is not affected, it will be converted automatically. That is why important because, since 1968, we have only 12 percent of all land in the area of legal certainty. The other advantages have already been addressed by the previous speaker: The procedure for border recovery will be accelerated, from two years to one year. In the case of slippers, there is a note from the measuring office, so that the surveyors know. Then, too, nature counts, so that no one is disadvantaged until that is corrected. All in all, that's a good thing. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16947	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Lightenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e16968	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of catastrophe procedures, the novelle of the survey law is intended to increase efficiency, strengthen legal certainty and, of course, increase party-friendliness. I would like to take the opportunity to point out at this point that we see this as a part of the authority in which it is de facto somewhat more efficient and less bureaucratic. I would like to say clearly that the issue of red tape needs to be considered as a priority, and I would like to point out that last June there was a debureaucratisation dialogue between the social partners. I remember Mr Vice-Chancellor stressing in the committees that there will be rapid implementation. To be clear: One year has passed, twelve months have gone into the country, nearly 360 days, and it has not moved much. In so doing, we believe that the pace must be increased, even in the framing of the obsolete trade order. That's all on. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I can quite understand the displeasure you have expressed about the stability of the social partners, which has been expressed in some respects by some. So we hope that's the 4th time. On the one hand, if you, together with Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern, will present an economic programme 2016/2017, appropriate steps will be taken to make a step forward at the One-Stop-Shop for operating plant permits and at the One-Stop-Shop for business start-ups and that implementation can at least take place. On the other hand, we naturally hope that there is movement on the part of the Chamber of Commerce and that the corresponding changes in the trade regulations will finally be made.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17005	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17027	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! It is very gratifying that we change the survey law so that the procedure in the border disaster becomes much more efficient. In terms of content, a lot has already been said about this, so I am taking this debate as an opportunity to note that we need more of these laws, which ultimately result in simplification and an increase in efficiency. Austria is well-known for the fact that we have well-trained and often tried-out government officials; the problem is that there are just too many and too complicated laws. Almost all entrepreneurs, especially SMEs and family businesses, complain about too much bureaucracy and associated with it also about shocks. In my last speeches, I have already brought examples of what smaller entrepreneurs are doing, and this time I also allow myself to report on a bizarre event from the living bureaucracy. A capable middle-aged woman told me that she was running a organic coffee house with pretty green curtains and green soil to point to the organic concept. The floor behind the counter was also green. One day the labour inspector came and found that this ground was too slippery and thus a danger to the employees mountains. The ground was of course for a non-slip floor, best with nods. The entrepreneur therefore went to search for such a ground and was found, there was even a ground with green nods. Of course, she quickly engaged the floor army, had everything directed, and soon there was a non-slip ground with green nods behind the counter. A few weeks later, she told me, however, someone came from the food hygiene and demanded the exchange of the soil, since it is not easy to clean due to the rags. He probably had this impression, she said, because the green appeared rather brownish-spotted in certain places where the staff had always marched over it. In any case, the ground has been exchanged, and now she expects the next visit of the labour inspector with some excitement. Ladies and gentlemen! I have deliberately taken the bow from this exemplary simplification of measurement to into intolerable super-bureaucracy, which costs many entrepreneurs unnecessarily much time, money and, above all, nerves. Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner rightly said that it needs a new location pact for our economy. Deregulation and red tape must be in the focus. For each new law, we should best abolish two or three old ones. In the Economic Federation, we have already begun the concrete research of regulations, I can tell you. I hope that, as announced, everyone in the government will be involved. In the sense of the economic location, I wish all of us much success.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17060	As the next speaker, Mr Vice-Chancellor Dr Mitterlehner is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17082	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What the law is about is de facto that everything has been presented. In the final effect, we have a novel of the Survey Act, which brings a faster solution to citizens and those affected, which is closer to citizens, more cost-effective and, to that end, more legal certainty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] - Please? Has Mr. Hörl called you again? – That is, I hope for the broadest possible approval. In this context, trade regulations are also constantly being discussed. This example of colleague Rebaur makes me slow, I have to say that honestly, suspiciously, because I already hear it at least five times in different variants. I told you about it myself once. [[Abg. Lights: Red tiles and red nods!]] The variant with the slaughterhouse is even better, because the contradiction between work inspector and hygiene, between smooth and ribbed, comes out even better, because there is then a smooth and a ribbed tile in the slaughterhouse and thus both are satisfied – not really satisfied, but the example sounds so good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim]] Anyway, I don't think the debureaucratisation is going by. Dear colleague Ruperta Lichtenecker, yes, we did last year on 24. This dialogue was conducted in June with the Commission for Reform and Deregulation and the Social Partners. We have already implemented some proposals, but not to a large extent enough. It is therefore really high time, and we are therefore going to make a number of proposals on investment procedures – first on the subject of the registration industry and then on related and regulated trade – and the date has been addressed. You can therefore assume that, as with this law, there will be positive changes in other areas – with some effort to start, I am sure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17132	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1115 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[17:35:57]] 5. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (1110, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a law on the granting of a bonus for fathers during the family period (family-time bonus law – FamZeitbG) as well as the Childcare Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, the Income Tax Act 1988 and the General Pension Act (1154 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1518/A(E) by Mr Michael Pock, colleagues, on the introduction of a longer variant of the dependent child care allowance (1155, e.g.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 154/A(E) by Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the abolition of the limit on the award of child care benefits (1156, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17209	We now come to points 5 to 7, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I now welcome Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karmasin. The first is Mrs Kitzmüller's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17239	Madam President. Minister! We are still not particularly exciting about the child care account because nothing has changed in the final effect. Negotiations have been terminated because it has been said that there is no agreement on the protection of the dismissal of fathers when using the papal month, which is still poorly named. It said it wasn't going to talk about it any further, one of them accused the other: Absolute refusal of reform, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek was accused. The ÖVP was accused by SPÖ-side that the termination of the negotiations was defiant and highly unprofessional. What happened in the final effect? – Nothing really pleasing, it hasn't changed anything. According to the Government's agreement, the flat-rate child care allowance should be transparent, flexible, it should be simplified, it should be transparent and the total duration of the parental leave should not be affected. – Just nothing of it has been observed. In advance, I said: We are in favour of further development of this flat-rate childcare allowance, but we cannot agree with what has now been achieved. It's just like that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is no simplification, there is no transparency, and there is no longer flexibility. It has even been found by the Ministry of Social Affairs: It is “nearly imaginable that non-lawful parents can see through matter in its complexity.” The children's friends also denounced it. The Catholic Family Association also said: “Reading, understanding and the right application will become even more difficult for those concerned from our point of view.” – No matter if you call in, it won’t be easier! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You just don't understand!]] The second thing we criticise is that there is still no valorization of child care money. There is no adjustment of value, the disadvantage is still present. The reduction due to the non-valorization of the child care allowance is 40 percent. It is therefore only worth 60 percent of what we decided in 2001. The maximum and most popular variant, the long version, has also been shortened: There are no more 30 plus six months, but 30 plus five months. So far, single teachers have had the opportunity to use 30 months, now they can take 28 months; so far they had 13 080 €, in the future they will receive 12 368 €. And whenever the family time bonus is spoken of, there are: This is not a bonus, it is an advance to the one month that is taken back and put in front when two are at home at the same time. Just what is this father participation supposed to look like? – The father has no protection against termination. Which father will be there on this one, I say, Harakiri history and then stay at home? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then it's said: Well, he can sue it under the equal treatment law. – Well, until that's sued, the family is pretty poor! Or lengthening of hardness in single-parents: Even the lengthening of hardness with regard to single parents, this is also a story that is not really well chosen. The income must not now exceed €1 400, so that has been increased from €1 200 to €1 400, which does not look bad at the first moment. The Krux, on the other hand, is that the family allowance is included in this income. And it is really true that in many cases there is still the bad situation for single parents. The family time bonus, as I said, will not work. There's no bonus, it's misinterpreted. It's an advance that's taken away from the back. There were so far 30 plus six, in the future it is 30 plus five months, and these 31 days must be used by father and mother at the same time. There are 700 € less to be done in connection with this family time bonus. Then we have the partnership bonus: That sounds good, 500 € partnership bonus, but that only concerns those who have always done it that divide this time. Which family can afford this: 500 € contrary to what the father previously earned when he went to work? That's another thing that's limping. Employment protection is not provided during the papal month. Similarly, this protection against termination is not given to mothers if they want to take the long-term variant. You have 24 months of notice protection, 30 months you can use it. That too is, you see, a half-hearted story. We are of the opinion that what can lead to a father's participation is a request which we have also made within the Committee and which has been dealt with within the Committee, namely that the limit of merit should be abolished in order to give fathers the opportunity to take more part. Pension and health insurance contributions: It's okay if these 31 days of family life are covered – but about FLAF? FLAF is not suitable to cover these not really direct family benefits. In this way, we will never be able to repay FLAF, the family compensation fund. This will go out again; from the year 2018, which was once the talk, you will hear nothing again for a long time, and that 2019 something will happen, we will not experience either. An initiative from Upper Austria, which was decided this year in the January of ÖVP and FPÖ, is particularly interesting. It is precisely this request that I have tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, why is it in Upper Austria and not here that there is a reasonable solution? Let us not look at our demands in connection with this reform regarding child care money: a simple and comprehensible handling and closeness of citizens – not given; genuine flexibility by introducing a child care account – in the final effect also did not become anything; the maintenance of the 36 months, a long-term variant – also nothing from it; no cuts in contributions – nor from it has become nothing; the adaptation of labour protection to the long-term variant or that the fathers have a protection against dismissal – nor has nothing become; the abolition of the sub-regulation we would like to have become nothing; a valorization since the introduction of child care money – nor has it become anything. Ladies and gentlemen, how should we be able to agree if nothing is enforced? Our consent will not receive this child care account.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17314	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17381	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17402	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is undoubtedly our responsibility that the voices of the Austrian families are heard in this House and that the demands and wishes are put into laws that ultimately strengthen the families. A great thank you to all the experts who have participated in this law, the new child care account, a great thank you also to the experts in the ministries and here in Parliament! It was without a doubt an intensive discussion and decision-making process that we are bringing to the finish today. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== A warm thanks to Mrs Karmasin for her commitment and also for her patience, thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The new child care account brings more flexibility because the four rigid time systems are replaced by a flexible account, which makes it possible to retrieve a certain amount in 12 to 35 months. That was the desire of the families, and we are also able to respond better to the reality of life of the Austrian families. Second point: The child care account brings more fairness because the same amount of money is reserved for these flexible periods. We're going to take it to the Expression that every child is worth the same thing to us. We are able to lubricate up to 16 500 € for a child. The child care account Neu also brings more partnership. For those couples who divide child care 50 : 50 or 40 : 60, a partnership bonus of 1 000 € is provided. And in order to improve the father's participation and the bond between the children and the fathers, there is the family-time bonus, which totals €700. So much has happened in recent years: the increase in family allowances, the expansion of childcare and childcare facilities, and now the new child care account. I would like to give the critics a small calculation of the Chamber of Workers and also of the ÖIF along the way, because it is always said that there is too little financial for the families in Austria: The consumer price index increased by 33.5 percent between 2000 and 2014, and expenditure per year and child amounted to €2 472 in 2000 and €3 562 in 2014. This is an increase of 44 percent, and the bonuses that are tax-based are not yet included, and the improvement of the families in the 2016 tax reform is not yet included. It is here black and white proof that we are doing a great deal financially for the Austrian families and that the increase is far above the inflation rate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're, like, on a good path; I'd even say we're on track. – A great thank you to Mrs. Federal Minister, a great thank you to the Federal Government, a great thank you to the High House! I would like to ask everyone: Stay on this path, we strengthen the families in Austria, because then the children in Austria are well uplifted! In this sense: Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17466	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17487	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I can now – and it is unusual that the opposition is agreed; that was the case in the committee – actually only my predecessor from the FPÖ joins. I am also very disappointed – for quite other reasons, of course, but on many points I commit to her; I will also explain it. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – No, we even very much agree on some points. I think it's a really big opportunity, a great opportunity that we've been waiting for for years. We know that child care money and how all this is regulated is a major challenge for future parents. Parents can split up when they have children, stay at home, share family work or family time, so all the nice things with the children, but also all that is strenuous – the care, the raising of children, I don't need to tell anyone, that's also work. With the child care account New one could really have made social policy and changed society. Unfortunately, it has remained with the great hope, and it has not come that far. It is, I understand, Mr Strasser, that a lot has obviously been discussed. I am also disappointed because I had the feeling – and I have put great hope in you, Mrs Minister, also in the so-called mirror minister, the former women's minister – that there are two modern women working on a child care account that really has the stuff to change society and control some of what the future of families and the future of child care is about. What happened? – Some things have already been mentioned by my previous speaker, also by my previous speaker: a sum for everyone – that is good, I can feel really good, and I would agree with that. It's more flexible than ever, that's good. But – and there are now many but –: We have made many proposals, and not only we, at the assessment stage, have seen some of the opinions that can be changed, which could and should have been changed. Unfortunately, it did not happen, and that is why we are as similar to the other opposition parties: We cannot agree because we are really disappointed. I hope that there will be something else, even in the evaluation phase, as I was allowed to hear. As it is now, it is complex and partly incomprehensible and not comprehensible as it is calculated. I hope that there will be a good computer for the families and the future parents who have to calculate how many days they use as they do. Fortunately, they can even change that once they want to. It is the father's participation questionable, not only in the so-called papal month; we still call it so, he's actually called family time bonus, and this family time bonus must be distinguished from the partnership bonus. The family time bonus is the one we still call Papamoon. The term is actually unfortunately chosen, I would call it baby month. We have also made a suggestion, which has not been accepted. I think that baby months would be quite super comprehensible, as a word also easier to use than family time bonus. Anyway: It should be the family time bonus, only it should not be deducted – and therefore the advance – if the father decides to obtain child care allowance even longer. This 700 €, which you get as an advance and which are then actually reduced in this day money, I really think is a joke. These are very important areas where I think it would have had that stuff, but unfortunately it does not have the stuff to actually change it. What also bothers me is that the whole thing is characterized by a very traditional family image: Father, mother, child under one roof. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Thank God!]] – It’s good, I live like that, with my husband and my children under one roof, but we know there are many families in this country who don’t have the chance to live that. On the one hand, these are the single-schoolers, single-schoolers, most of them are women. On the other hand, there are many fathers who also want to participate in the educational work, although they do not live under the same roof, and these are not favored; this is not possible through the papal month as it is now designed. I find this to be extremely unfortunate with regard to the many living forms of the family in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have the overall impression that those who are so far to share family work and family time are not supported accordingly. The others who need an incentive do not get the incentive from this new model. I would have liked a lot to be changed. We have often tried to do so in different ways, not least through appropriate applications. I would also like to stress that I particularly regret that the situation of single parents does not change, or only minimally, by one month in hard cases. We know what a fall of hardness means; that is, the father is either dead, in prison or in any other way unable to support the woman. I think being a single educator is not just a case of hardship, it is a family form, and it should have been taken into account. I therefore make another attempt and make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17572	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17689	Mrs Lueger's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17710	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The childcare allowance was difficult to handle for parents at the time because we had these four variants plus the income-dependent childcare allowance. We all know from practice, from the advice – I don't need to tell you anything – how difficult it was to really advise the young parents. This idea of making an account that is an amount to be allocated to parents as much as they would like is actually in line with what parents want. I give you the right to read the law is difficult, but it is not the task of the parents to read this law, but it is up to us, it is up to the woman family minister to pass on this information so that it is easily applicable to the parents. That is why we have developed this way: the common amount that you have also found positive – a child, an amount, and take the time as you would like! –; the various variations of reference; the possibility of exchange that previously did not exist; the common relationship of karenz, but also the childcare allowance, which is also a novum in this law; the limit of merit was raised, which also helps the single parents; the family time, which you know from the discussion we have already had in the committee. I can't really start with the concept of family time bonus, because a bonus is always something you expect something extra. Perhaps we think something new about the evaluation, because it's not additional, it's being subtracted – that's right. In order to be equal to the father's legal claim: Yes, we were in favour of a father's legal claim. Yes, we were also for the father's dismissal protection. This was not possible at the moment, knowing that it is regulated by the equal treatment law at European level – and that this is simply the first step in the right direction. That is why I am very glad that we have come to this additional evaluation. The evaluation will take place, and in this evaluation we will first examine the father's participation, which is supported by a European project of father's participation in the social ministry. Then we still have the partnership bonus – how is it adopted, or is it not accepted? –, single parents, and I am also very, very happy that there should be an online computer with which parents can really calculate how this looks financially. – This is also the crucial question, because no family decides against the stock exchange. There's nothing we need to think about, it'll be like that in the future. Another positive effect, in my opinion, is that for the first time in this law the crisis caregivers have been taken into account. This is certainly a great help for crisis care parents. We also remember the complaints that we were right to face when a child died, if it was not reported in time because the parents were so shocked by this tragic incident, they had to repay the childcare allowance. There was also a solution found so that, if it is reported within 31 days, it will not be recovered. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Mrs Kitzmüller, I find this quite exciting. You stand out here and say: Nothing happened! We're all talking about what happened now. What's so exciting for me: The old man was too complicated for you. Now we've created something new, but you don't want the new one, because actually the old one was good anyway, so you can't change the old one that the new can enter into force. [[Abg. Kitzmüller:... just listen and read, then...!]] So somehow I don't know what I'm doing. It would have been smart if you had put forward concrete proposals, which would have also been included in the discussion, so that we could have discussed them in terms of content. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Did we bring in?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17784	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17806	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, child care allowance: The beginning was promising. There was also a meeting with the Federal Minister. There was an exchange of views. There was an assessment phase. There were many proposals for a reform that was on the right track, it was about making the reform significantly better and discussing some points that were not going well from my personal and from NEOS point of view. However, the result is a less satisfactory one, because it has not changed much after this first drive. There has been a change of the Minister for Women, but it has essentially not changed much. What do we welcome NEOS? – We welcome – one must also address the positive things – on the one hand, the aggregation that there is actually an account, which has been mentioned several times, that there is a transparent overview which is not yet so easy to understand, but it is once a good basis. We also welcome the fact that there should be a common family time in which Mother and Father are at home with the baby, and that there has been an extension in the cases of hardship. All of these things are positive, but I would like to address other things here in concrete terms, namely two pictures in the superintendent. The first is the question of whether this reform has also been used to take account of problems we have as a society in Austria. There's on the one hand that there's hardly a father's share. Even the ministry assumes that the reform will lead to an equivalent participation of up to 3 percent of couples. That's not half-half, that's not even going in the right direction. It's not ambitious. This does not indicate the picture of a family in the 21st century. ==References====External links== On the other hand, there's also a lot of stuff in it: If women – and this can also be clearly explained – opt for a family foundation, it means for one thing that they have a career neck, that they do not go on in the job, do not continue in the company, that these years – if they have several children – they will actually have real income losses until the end of their work. In addition, they have been cut off in the last few years of employment – but this does not concern young mothers anymore in the future. Then there are those who say: I deliberately decide not to make a career but to be with the family! That's what it is. We then reward them with poverty, because they simply do not pay enough contributions. These are social problems that go far beyond family policy, at least not taken into account in the reform. The second is the family image that seems to draw ÖVP and SPÖ in consensus: that there is a man in the family, there is a woman in the family, one or more children. They live under one roof, and nothing can happen. There is no other alternative life form of families. It is true, however, that almost every other marriage will actually be divorced, that marriages are known to be child-rich and that Marriages are not only divorced after the expiry of the child - care allowance, but sometimes also before it. In concrete terms, 10 percent of the three-year-olds live in a single-parent household; the single-parents, that is, the male, make up only 5 percent. What's the problem with this? . We have not seen in the reform the possibility that men, even if they are divorced, will continue to be responsible. This would be a great way to strengthen the father-child relationship – in rare cases the mother-child relationship – on the one hand, but on the other hand also to better relieve the single parent in the child's household through time resources and other sources. It didn't happen. The next point is that the law also provides that the mother is automatically taken into account in the pension contributions that are calculated. But there are actually fathers who raise children. There are families in which there are only two fathers, where the question is quite exciting: Who's the mother? And there are families in which there are only two mothers, there is also the question: Who's the mother? This means that neither the major social problems, the existences that cost us a lot of money, nor the modern forms of the family have been sufficiently taken into account. The glass is either half full or half empty. From our point of view, it is an important point of view that child care money should be taken out of the common budget. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the simplest and most harmless of all the proposals that we can put forward here to optimize this reform. If we are to receive a majority in favour of this proposal today, we will agree to the reform. Although this simple and indeed not very hard demand cannot be implemented, the glass is clearly more than half empty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17897	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by honourable Member Pock is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17964	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e17986	Mr President. [[The speaker presents a panel with the image of a smiling boy in dress on a green meadow on the speaker's desk.]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers in front of the TV sets and on the gallery! Yes, we agree with this law because we support every improvement that benefits families and young people and children. Mr Kitzmüller's explanatory statement can be very much achieved, because in the past much has been discussed and little has been done. On this occasion, I am able to express my sincere thanks to all the educators, fathers, mothers, in partnership or alone, because this service is irreplaceable because this personal commitment is incalculable. What is being done for the future of our society must be appreciated much more. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] I should also like to point out that some of my colleagues may have asked why I am taking this board: because I want to put this cheerfulness of a child in the centre of my work, our work here in this House, this confident smile. This gleam, this hope in the eyes, I believe, must be a task for work, for the future, and we must do everything today, with many topics that we have already discussed – from rural areas, from problems in the economy, from tourism – and always come back to the problems if it doesn't really work in family policy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact: We have families who would like a second, a third child, mothers who would like a second, a third child. And it's bad when we hear: It's not going out! I've said, "Oh, my God, I've got to say, "Oh, my God, I've got to say, "I don't know what I'm The child can't be the Cashcow, but first the child has to be there, and then we have everything to do for the children to have a future, to have a life-worthy future. I think without children, without the most important cell in the state, we have no future at all. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] It is repeatedly spoken of by regional investment, by the lack of purchasing power, whether in rural or urban areas. That is where we feel the weaknesses of family policy. We know a new study confirms: A child costs up to 15 years of age. Year of life 135 000 €. And this money is spent regionally, in regional transactions. The families invest on site. The families are reliable partners for our regional economy. I believe that if we have to discuss the international problems of globalisation here over and over again, we know that we need to focus much more on this. This also includes the lack of an inflation adjustment of family aid. We know that families have suffered 27 percent of the purchasing power loss in recent years. This money is missing. That is why we have to see that we too are catching up with this manko, and I therefore have two motions for resolutions: [[Quoted print version removed]] That was the first request. And on the second request, I may mention personally: We need to get over this house! It may not be that a mother who gives birth in shorter periods than four years loses retirement billing periods. Mr Wöginger, also in Upper Austria, the ÖAAB has already called for this model, and I think it is about the mother's performance – no matter what distance she brings children to the world – that is the same effort, the same cost per child. That is why I would like to make the following request: Resolution by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues, on ‘Improved retirement periods per child for child training’ The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Family Affairs and Youth, are invited to forward to the National Council a government template that reorganises the pension allowance for child rearing periods so that mothers who have born their children at a shorter distance than four years receive full insurance periods for each child.” I particularly emphasized the mothers, and if there are fathers who have born, they will be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18100	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Steinbichler are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18229	Now, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Karmasin, has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18253	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The child care account was a heavy and long but healthy and natural birth. It is the biggest reform of child care money since 2002, since the introduction, and we are already quite proud that we are doing this project with 1. In March 2017, it was launched. What's new? – The four flat-rate variants are converted into an account, and this is quite revolutionary because up to now, four variants have paid out different total amounts and thus different variants have been assessed and supported differently by the legislator. Now there is an amount, up to €15 449 for each child in a corridor between 12 and 35 months, freely available on a daily basis. That means that we have more individuality, more flexibility, more freedom of choice and more proximity to citizens. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What was always particularly important to me from the beginning, Mr Pock, was the father's participation and a partnership family model. I have been fighting for this since the beginning of my term of office, and this has succeeded in all facets and in all areas in which I have wished. We have increased the proportion reserved for fathers from 16.7 percent to 20 percent, which fails if the second parent – also called father – does not take it. That means that we have a stronger assessment and support of the father's participation. Secondly, and this has been a special heart concern for me, we have been able to implement the partnership bonus. That is, if both parents are almost equal to the child’s allowance, there is an additional financial bonus of €1,000. This is worth noting, for this is the first law that legally defines and financially supports and rewards the family model of the partnership. This, I believe, is a very strong commitment by the Federal Government and, of course, social policy and adaptation to modern family images. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, family life is also a central focus of this new law. The possibility of using this family time paid after birth together with the mother is something completely new and something that will increase father participation accordingly for Austria. And yes, we have set in the explanatory notes 3 per cent for the partnership bonus. But this is not exclusively about the partnership bonus, it is about the father's participation, which is now 16 percent, and if we were to double the father's share over family time to 25, 30 percent, then, I think, it would be a huge success that this law allows. Apart from family time, we have explained the more flexible possibility of change, as already explained by colleague Kitzmüller. Due to this simplification on a daily basis and with an amount of money, we are now creating the opportunity to change once, so that we can adapt to living conditions, to care situations and also to challenges at work. The single parents have already been addressed. Only mentioned by the following: There is also a father in single parents, and the father can also contribute accordingly if the common household is made possible with the father. And then also the father's share and finally the partnership bonus can... [[Abg. Schwentner: These are single-minded women!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] – There is a father to every child, and he has a responsibility! – No, the child must be reported with the parent who relates. [[Abg. Kickl: But in the common household!]] [[Mr Schwentner and Mr Kitzmüller.]] Yes, and that's once the father, once the mother. Yeah, that's reality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: Reality looks different!]] And the fathers, even if the relationship is split, have a responsibility for the child to provide care. [[New call of the abg. Schwentner.]] In addition, it has succeeded in enabling family life and the partnership bonus in the income-dependent childcare allowance. I would just like to add another one: When families implement the partnership bonus and adapt their lives accordingly, there are up to €16,449 for this family, for this child, and that is about €2 500 more than now for a short variant. So the increase is already very clear. At this point I would also like to thank all the employees in the house and in my team, including colleague Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. We have come up with some discussions, but in the end, I think, we have ended up with a very good end result, and that is really gratifying. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek nodds condolences]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now it is about the preparations – say: to the always quoted online computer, to all the directory, the Internet information offensive – and be proud, we will communicate the account in a transparent and easy manner. As Mrs Lueger said, Parents are not encouraged to read the law but will be given a very civil and simple way of filling out. Thank you and take the next step to the most family-friendly country in Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18374	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18395	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, I have now – because you have said that what is likely to be decided here is “revolutionary” – yet to find out what the Germans say about what revolutionaryally would really mean: “a profound change effecting”. I fear that this law may change a few things, but there will certainly not be a profound change in our country, in our society in which we can live family. Family policy is unfortunately in Austria – which means “sufferer”?, it is – it is also women’s policy, because we are so led by gender stereotypes, by role understandings as in no other area, and therefore it is also important to address what this law will actually have for the effects on women in Austria. There is a goal that is certainly not fulfilled with it – that would have been really revolutionary – namely that at some point we will create a real fifty-fifty division in child rearing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That would be really revolutionary. There will be no change in the fact that it will continue to be women who take over most of the childcare work, who have longer breaks in employment. It is still the women who do this work in Austria and thus have enormous disadvantages. We always talk about father participation – participation somehow implies that we want the share to increase a bit, but then it should not be fifty-fifty, because we still think in this role understanding that in principle the woman should already take over this job. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Karmasin.]] We ask women to really develop superpowers – they are supposed to put children and careers under a hat, and then they don't get upset about the gender pay Gap, because that's certainly free to invent, then comes from this direction, and it's conveying the social image that the man alone is still bringing home the income. [[towards FPÖ]] I honestly believe that it is essential that family policy contributes to the fact that in the future women have the same opportunities on the labour market that women do not sleep in poverty. That should actually be the task, that would have been really something revolutionary. [[Abg. Kickl: But that's women's policy now!]] And do you know what this fails to do? – Among other things, we still have a different duration with regard to the care of children. [[Abg. Kickl: But that's women's policy now!]] That's absurd! This is a direct monetary incentive that women move out of the right to return to their job. This makes re-entry into the profession extremely difficult. This is a direct incentive, this is a tax-subsidized inequality policy, and I think it is unfortunate that we do not change it. That is why it is important for us that the maximum duration of the child care allowance is finally harmonised with the maximum duration of the karenz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] This is really an essential point, which is still not solved, which is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18497	The amendment tabled by Mrs Gamon is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18577	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18598	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, today's decision on the child care account underlines the generally positive development in this area. The family benefits in Austria are very high, and if you look a little above the fence from Austria and still regret it, you can already write it in the main book that he is sorry at a very high level. This also applies to large parts of the opposition, as well as to the President of the Catholic Family Association. I can recall some of these benefits: In Austria, for example, we spend more than €8 billion in support for the families, only the childcare allowance is more than €1.2 billion, and tax measures are still excluded. Increased family support in three steps since 2014: more than €800 million. Consider the doubling of the amount of child dropover from € 220 to €440; think of the corresponding financial support in the extension of childcare, we think of the Free Kindergarten: A year costs € 70 million! This list could still be continued. I think you're allowed to hold on: Increasingly higher spending sounds tempting, but is not always possible and not always wise. We should focus on the interests of children. But what does it look like in reality? We have also sometimes thought about what it is like – not only in the big city, sometimes also in the country – when the children play in the afternoon and it is not their own grandchildren, whether we do not call relatively fast: Take it easy!Unknown term We should also think about these things at times. Family kindness is not the result of laws. It is primarily created by mutual respect and by the understanding of the needs of children. Ver- Let us also try to see with their eyes or to hear with their ears. Family friendliness begins with our very personal attitude, and the subject is well taken up by our minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18637	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18659	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Flexible account for all births from March 2017: The new child care account replaces the existing four package options of the child care allowance. Parents can choose the reference period flexibly within a given period of time. As far as Mrs Minister is concerned, however, you see more precisely, then the reference period is reduced, with a parent receiving a maximum of 28 months instead of the previous 30 months and both parents together for a maximum of 35 months instead of 36 months. It would also be necessary to question whether the limit of earnability is still modern. As the woman's family minister so highlighted the father's participation and also that she should be raised to 25 percent: In my opinion, this is a dream of wish, because if the so-called Papa month does not have any protection against termination, ladies and gentlemen, then it will not be a fruit. I believe – and this has also been mentioned by Mr Steinbichler – that it would be a good law to take full advantage of the time when child rearing times are used for pension calculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18692	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18713	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Gamon, I think the discussion on social change in the family is important and, of course, I also see the mandate to us to look at politics, and to write these changes down in politics, as a truly good job. I'm still not quite convinced that it's so simple that you just say from this point of view: I want to have a 50:50 percent family participation!, and then it happens simply. I believe that many other things need to be considered. As long as it is, unfortunately, – and I say so quite consciously as a woman – that men still earn by 25 percent or part-time adjusted by, I think 15 percent more than women, it will simply be difficult to move all men to stay at home. That's just that once, that's a fact, and we have to work together in a different direction, I'll give you the right. It's a time to talk about it today, but you can't just change it with a finger snap. That's the one point. The second point is that it is also not so easy to find the exact needs- and needs-oriented everywhere – and I always say so – childcare on site to get back into the profession very quickly. This is also a subject where we really need to look closely. In the last few years, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done a lot of work in order to develop all day care in kindergartens to expand in schools. This is a very important point, and there is also a need to take society, the parents have to take along, the opposition has to take with them in order to convince them that it is important and right to invest in this area. It's not as easy as you sometimes write down the world in a speech. I therefore believe that it is important to look at it and to speak to it again and again, but it takes a lot of screws to turn on. One of these screws, of which I am really convinced, is the law that we decide today, because it will increase the father's participation, too, I am convinced. With the family time planned, with this paternal month also in the economy and not only in the public service and also with this partnership bonus, which I find particularly successful, where you can get 1,000 € more by sharing the parental age as a partner. I think that is a very important point. I am convinced that fathers are very happy to participate – Mr Pock says on every occasion that this is right and important – and it is also very important for the children that the fathers also participate. [[Abg. Steinbichler: That's normal, I don't need to talk!]] But I'm just as convinced: It would also be good for the economy to finally recognize this value, I say quite consciously today, because satisfied people – satisfied men, satisfied women, satisfied parents – are also satisfied and motivated employees. I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that women in the government would be the big obstacle to more fatherly participation models, but perhaps it is more the Chamber of Commerce, which is still a bit of a stimulant. [[towards ÖVP]] I appeal to everyone that we really work together to ensure that Fatherhood participation – I say it now, as They said that this family life with a child is easy to make, because it is a great profit for all those involved and our society as a whole. [[in the direction of the Abg. Gamon]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18759	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18780	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law has again achieved a milestone in terms of flexibility and fairness. Austria has become a lot more family-friendly again, although unfortunately many things or almost all things are spoken badly again, and there is certainly something to be added again and again. – We all know that very well. But we also know that everything has to be financed. Of course: We all want to adapt the family aid, but there must also be financial possibilities. When I think back: When I got my last child – that's of course many years ago – there were exactly two months of maternity protection before birth, two months after birth, then eight months of karenz money, and that was it. That's been a lot of years, but still: If you compare this with today, you see, it's done a lot. It is very important to us that families are supported, promoted and that justice and flexibility are taken into account. The ÖVP stands for our families. Just a family association and children make up the foundations of our society: Values are imparted, there the next generation will be raised, and in our children and children is clearly our future. The new child care account scores with flexible and fair key data. It has already been mentioned: The previous four package variants are replaced by individually selected possibilities, which has already been discussed in detail. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a great advantage to be able to choose the reference period flexibly and individually, without suffering financial loss, because there is an alternative, namely the income-dependent child's allowance, which can be obtained to the extent of 80 percent of the last income and is covered with € 2 000 for 12 or 14 months. Another important factor for a functioning family life is the partnership division: 50 : 50 or 60 : 40 with the partnership bonus of 500 € per parent who is paid out. Ladies and gentlemen! We certainly agree that the time with and in the family is among the most important times in life, and so we can be extremely proud to allow families to share their time with the family themselves with the new child care account and still do not lose the connection to their professional life. It is extremely important to reach out to the families, help them, and sometimes to realize their dream. We know: In the youth studies of recent years, most families and children are in the first place. With the introduction of the child care account, we all contribute a lot together to the fact that many can also meet the desire for a family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18814	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18835	Mr President. Yes, family and partnership, as we have already heard, have an extremely high priority among Austrians, but there have been some problems in the past, which has affected the package variants in child care money. That was, among other things, that they are very rigid that they are inflexible and intransparent in terms of what comes out at last, what you can expect monthly. Another challenge was that due to these package variants the father participation could not be increased. This was also a reason why this new family-time bonus law and the change in the childcare allowance are intended to improve. It is therefore our task to design and change the regulations so that families can make it easier to reconcile family and work, as well as partnership and work. In my opinion, this family-time bonus law is an important step, because exactly the papal month should enable the child to stay with the family in a phase in which the child is small – in the first three months – with about €700 in financial support, one is sick and pension insured. What's right, I have to agree: It was also our concern that, for this time, there should be explicit termination protection and, of course, a legal right to work. – That was not to be achieved, but despite everything, there is a motivating protection according to the equal treatment law. There is also an evaluation, so in the future one will see whether this father participation will grow accordingly and increase, as we wish, or not, and in this case the corresponding changes also need to be made as regards the protection of termination or the legal claim. I would like to come to another point which has not yet been mentioned, but which is particularly important to me: In the previous package variants, which, as has already been said, were hardly customizable and little flexible, there has also been a disadvantage that when a change in living conditions – including early entry into working life or possibly the birth of another child – exactly this claim to child care allowance for the months where the child was then born, where one has returned to the profession, has simply been lost. That won't be the case now. There is now a fixed financial support, and that is exactly what remains because it is possible until shortly before the end to change this variant of child care money, in order not to suffer any financial losses either. What has also often been criticized, also by Mr Schwentner, is that one does not get rid of these rigid role models – but I am already convinced that one has taken a big step there: The partnership is within, as has already been mentioned and as we have heard, as well, and this is very important, adoptive families, same-sex couples. That is, there are the same conditions for any family composition. I think this is a big step, a step towards equality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] I would therefore like to stress once again how important this is to me. All in all, I see the new regulation as a very great success for our families. It becomes more flexible, it can now say father and mother or partner: How do we split this up, how does that fit into professional life, when do I go into Karenz, when not? This is now much more flexible, and I therefore ask for support. Despite the criticisms that have also come, it is a significant improvement. Even if you don't want to call it revolutionary: Only when you see the 1 000-€ bonus, when you divide it in partnership – fifty-fifty or 60: 40, no matter what – is that a big leap. You can't do it with compulsion, there's no room for child care in the country to the extent that you can simply say: Okay, it's going to be fifty-fifty now!, but I see the 1,000-€ bonus for sharing child care with me as a big leap. I'm really asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18893	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18914	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers! It is gratifying that Minister Karmasin and her team have managed to create a new family time scheme. As a liberal, I particularly welcome the freedom of choice. Getting children and raising children in particular is primarily still the matter of parents and not the state. Good family policy also means raising parents, especially mothers, on children and raising children as much as possible, while at the same time supporting those who especially need support, especially single parents. There are clear improvements, which is a very good progress, Mrs Minister. It is also good that the family time is decided without the long time controversial protection of termination, because often the reality shows us that well meant often is the opposite of good. For example, the more stringent the protection of termination for people with disabilities, the more difficult it is for the people concerned to find a job. The more stringent the protection of termination for older workers, the less, God’s older workers will find a job. Paradoxically, in some cases the social state takes the incentive to hire some people at all. However, it is usually very important for our home company to support the compatibility of family and work anyway. This requires clear and understandable rules and equally a certain mutual understanding, so that partnership solutions are made possible. In this sense, I also very much hope – in the sense of workers, in the sense of entrepreneurs and especially in the sense of mothers – that the government will make clear progress on the subject of working time flexibility. For example, if you increase the maximum daily working time, parents could make up with their employer whether they are working longer on a day and the next day they are shorter or perhaps not if an important appointment with the children is due. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: The children then take them, or how do they do that?- Oh, my God!]] We are now living thanks to God in an age in which employers and workers usually take a lead; and I am looking forward to the next positive steps of the government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18951	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e18972	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with today's decision-making of the new child care account, we are taking a step in the right direction, because we have a certain amount, and everyone can choose what time it takes for his child. I believe that this is quite, very important in today's time, because it's not everywhere like in the cities that you have all day care for the children. We also need to compare this with the rural communities in which we very often only have half-day kindergartens. We only talked about the child care account today, but there are at least two variants: In addition to the income-dependent child allowance, there is the child-care account. Fatherhood and the fact that fathers deserve much more was often addressed today, but it is open to all fathers when they deserve so much to use income-dependent child money and stay at home with the children. I think it's very important that this is also clearly said. We do not prescribe that it must be half-half; there are all possibilities. I would like to thank our former Minister Heinisch-Hosek very much for her involvement in this law. Now, if we take the dad month, as we always call it: I believe that this will create the possibility that even in the private economy, fathers, if they want to, in the agreement with the employer, will have the opportunity to use this papal month. That's the first step. We will consider in the evaluation what is possible, what we can further shape. Nor is this 1 000 € partnership bonus, and it is in the draft law that it must be at least 60 : 40. That means you're close to 50 percent. The aim is, as Mrs Minister has already said, to reach 25 to 30 percent of Fathers' participation in the next few years. I believe that this is very important, because fathers want to stay with the children, you only have to create the opportunities, and you have to make it possible for them to care for the children together with the women. It was addressed that it was a matter of where the child is. I'm telling you, you just need to change the child: If the father relates child money, it must be reported to the father, otherwise with the mother. If the parents are separated and the child lives with the mother in Vienna, for example, it is not possible for the father to refer to children's money in Vorarlberg. I believe that there is a clear system for this. We will, of course, need to look at what we can improve in the evaluation process. This will be shown over the next few years, but I think we're on a good path.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19014	Next speaker: Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19036	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Member Anneliese Kitzmüller has already expressed sufficient and extensive views on the child care account. I will now comment on the requests received afterwards. First of all, I am dealing with the request made by Mr Steinbichler on ‘Annual Valorization of Family Benefits’. I can, by the way, pay tribute to you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, remember that you always wanted to, and it would be nothing more obvious than to do so at last. Everything and everyone is valorized with good reason. We know how difficult the loss of value is that family benefits have suffered in the last one and a half decades. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Young families are also really hard to deal with. You all know, everything is now based on a double earnings. It would really be time for you to give yourself a back and do a little bit of persuasion. This is a very pragmatic and not an ideological matter at all. We do not have the idea of valorizing pension payments, for example. We agree, of course. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the second request, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Michael Pock, he wished that child care and care rights could also be asserted without a common budget. That's where I say very pragmatically: Of course, it is desirable for parents, especially young children, to stay together and live together, in whose case this can still be used, but if that is not the case, then we still think it is justified and better than another solution if parental responsibility is shared. That is what we will agree with. On the third point, the amendment tabled by Mr Gamon and the motion for a resolution by Mr Judith Schwentner, which is a little in the same direction: Mrs Schwentner makes it more precise – I will treat her in one – and she complains above all, after the passage that the reform has not succeeded and a great chance has been missed that the childcare allowance will also be financially rewarded in contrast to short-term use and that it provides too few incentives for father participation. They write that the reforming of child care funds was therefore urgently necessary and, in your opinion, was not successful. They shall confess to themselves as follows: “Family benefits such as childcare benefits have the potential to influence social realities. In this way, the concrete design of the child care allowance can reduce the duration of the career for both sexes and promote the sharing of family work with partnerships.’ I would like to comment a little on this. As you know, we have an opposition opinion. The first point concerns partnership: I don't see it at all that it must be 50 : 50. Partnership means agreeable, and many of my colleagues – like myself – have had phases where it might be 20 : [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] 80 was, but in favor of the father of the child, that can happen. We don't have to interfere. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Moreover, I am pleased to be in close contact with young parents again and again when I have my seven grandchildren on Sunday, and I note that they make this quite easy. My daughters with a completed study that children have are actually all in a professionally interesting position, have decided to enjoy the child first, but the fathers are full of it. Depending on how a daughter is – whether she is a career-oriented woman or not – she has taken the income-dependent parent's money. Another says that she prefers to have a second and a third child quickly, remains at home for a while now and will then try to enter the professional life afterwards – she has a teaching degree. That must be made possible. The rapid return of both sexes to the labour market is per se of no value. We are rather concerned with freedom of choice, because we see that education is an essential prerequisite for an adult generation that can give this state a future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whether this education is to be perceived in the family or whether it is to be transferred to social institutions, it is for people to decide for themselves. You don't think so. They believe that it is above all a social task to raise children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] There it says already: as soon as possible return; and one cannot raise children from a distance. You have to admit that, one has to be there and have to dedicate yourself to the child. [[Abg. Schwentner: What, that's in the application?- Oh, my God!]] – You already write: as soon as possible. I don't see that as a value in itself. I mean, child rearing is the value in itself. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] You can represent this position, but what you cannot represent – and we have discussed it once again in the Committee – is that this is a modern view which is a traditional one. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I must say this in your direction: More self-confidence! There has once been Mr Walser in the juice, but it does not change the fact that what I am going to repeat is true, because the idea that child rearing is primarily a social task and is not primarily passed on to parents has been a long time ago. Theoretically, that's what you know – Marx, Engels, Bebel. Experimented in reality, with all the sharpness and enthusiasm, Lenin's women's minister Alexandra Kollontai has. We have seen this in various degrees in all socialist countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] It is a draft, not ours, but, Mr Pock, we have just had it, it is not a modern draft, but it comes from the previous century. We've got another one. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We see family as a unity based on ties that move forward to the state. I can only stress this over and over again. And if the state or society intervenes in the inner structure of a family, that must be well-founded. The autonomy of the family is very high. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Mrs Family Minister! It's not your job to intervene in a family's inner relationships. Their task is to satisfy the family within the framework of state and society. That would be what we expect from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Finally, I would like to say quite pragmatically: We believe that children are essential for the future in general. Mr Schäuble has not quite seen this, but we have. However, for the social state in itself – and everyone has to admit this – it is essential that the sequence of generations is sufficiently sufficient. Of course, every social state and every transfer service is simply and decisively roughly dependent on an intact generation relationship. The benefit provided by the family is not one within the social state, it is a condition of the social state, and that must be recognized. And that exactly those who perform this performance – usually still the mothers; I do not grieve at all; but also fathers who are devoted to it would be affected – who fall at age poverty is, of course, a scandal, but no God-given fate. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Steinbichler]] The Doyen of European Demographic Sciences, Herwig Birg, has said it clearly and decisively: Children benefit from our system, who has none. As we sit there, we can change that. This has not imposed on us the fate that child rearing leads to poverty. We have to answer this because we have still not changed it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The misery here is the bad situation of the families. Everyone knows what children cost, that has been calculated by the various institutes, depending on the child’s degree of education, from € 120 000 to € 220 000 – with a degree in academic studies – of opportunities that a family has to bear when raising a child. That is, at least part of it – and we cannot talk about it – should be repaid by the family burden compensation. This is not family support; what I now propose is an attempt to end discrimination against families. Even there I have a last quote, namely the Bishop Küng – I have said this so often, but it is just so coined and short that you have to say it –: Children are the safest way to poverty. – So it is; and we can change that here too. Mrs. Minister! One thing to conclude: Do you know what I'm looking for? – That I am almost at the end of the list of speakers, and we have not once – the Secretary-General has drawn my attention to this – talked about the welfare of children. Under these conditions and in this context, I can tell you that we are miles away from the most family-friendly country in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19172	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19194	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We should be proud, Mrs Rosenkranz, that we are one of the most family-friendly countries in the world. This is an achievement of the last decades, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] First of all, thanks to parents and the educators, of course, and we should also be pleased that we had increasing birth rates in 2015: 3 470 children more have come into the world in this country, which is 3 percent more than 2014. Also in my homeland Upper Austria we had more births around 207. That is gratifying, and that is to say, the path taken here in family policy is the right one, otherwise the people in our country would not decide at this time that they will have more children again. That is why the way is a real one, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But this has nothing to do with family policy!]] We were proud of the ÖVP when we introduced the childcare allowance, and we are also proud that we can develop it well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] – Yes, we introduced this with you back then, and it is now being further developed positively, just as it is necessary in the family sector – just as it is in the social or health field – to develop things further. This means total flexibility and freedom of choice, if you can now simply apportion these sums in the partnership as parents themselves. You will have at your disposal either about €15 500 or €16 500 with the partnership bonus. [[Keeping a graphic in height with the heading “Kindergeld-Account”]] You know how much money is available, and you can divide it into days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] I say it in months: It is between 12 and 35 months depending on whether both parents use it or only one parent. [[Abg. Schwentner: Try to explain it without Taferl! It's so complicated!]] Three months before this variant of the day, which you have chosen, you can change it again – for example, if another child should come, then you will not lose the rest of the amount, which has been the case until now, if you have chosen a variant. It's an advantage in every direction. There is more freedom of choice, more flexibility in the sense of the parents, ladies and gentlemen, and especially in the sense of children. With the partnership bonus, we want to increase father participation; an incentive is to be put in the system so that more fathers are prepared to devote themselves to childcare. It's right, that's not easy in all partnerships. We just need to get our own profession back. It is practically not as easy to be active as you might want. But putting an incentive in the system and then saying that there is €1,000 more available to families is the right way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What the family time or the papal month is going on – I'm not so critical, both are fine – is that you can spend this time together. [[Demonstrated by Members Kucharovich and Kucher]] When the child is born, and especially when it is the second or third child, it is very important that both parents have this opportunity to be together in child care. Therefore, these 700 € from my point of view are also a good increase in this area. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I still have two or three comments on the requests made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Mrs. Rosenkranz, what is happening to inflation – our family spokesperson Georg Strasser has already mentioned this – is: In the years 2000 to 2014, we had inflation of 33.5 percent and in the same period an increase in family allowances by 44 percent per child, from 2 472 € per child to 3 562 €. This is evidenced by the Chamber of Workers and the ÖIF. This has to be said; that is why this devaluation has not taken place, and I also point out that we have already raised the family allowance three times, namely 2014, 2016 and 2018 – then the family allowance will be increased again by 1.9 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing the population should also know is how different the opposition parties are dealing with the matter. We have here applications that go in the direction of shortening the reference period. So the Greens and the NEOS do not want it to be as long as possible to use this child money, and the FPÖ is rather too little. There are, therefore, different views within the political groups. My last comment applies to the matter at four years' billing per child: Yes, Mr Steinbichler, this is a concern for us, which costs € 280 million a year when we charge pension-enhanced and based on pension. But the announcement is correct. Four years per child, no matter how many times the children were born, this is a question of justice, ladies and gentlemen, and we will continue to work here. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] But overall, this child money account is a very good solution. Mrs Minister, I congratulate you and thank all those who helped. We will still be the most family-friendly country in the world because we are taking the right measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19301	Mr Walser spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19323	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Rosenkranz, I would like to comment briefly on your comments. Point one: I find it interesting in what context your world view is moving: between early Stalinist thinkers, such as Alexandra Collontai, and Bishop Klaus Küng. There you need to be a little careful that your family image is not too narrow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Wöinger! We are for a possible flexible design, but we are above all for a design of child money that refers to reality. This is also happening in your direction, Mrs Rosenkranz. The reality is that today we have a lot of children who wake up with only one right to education, because we just have a divorce rate of more than 50 percent, and society has to react to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Barbara Rosenkranz.]] That is not to say, Mrs Colleague, that we Greens are trying to rob the poor mothers or fathers of their children and give them to state institutions. This means that we want modern childcare facilities, facilities where children can develop, where children have contact with other children, where we have trained and qualified educators, if possible more educators than they are currently. That's what it's all about. We have to look to reality and we can not transport hidden world pictures that have nothing to do with today's reality into the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would be our wish for you: Look at what's going on in society! Look at what children are confronted with! Let us make sure that our children receive the best possible training! And it is important that they have enjoyed a high-quality care facility before they come to school. This is important for their social behaviour and for their development. Our request would be that you orient yourself a little bit to thinking about child care, not Stalin or other past dictators, not even Catholic fundamentalists, but reality. [[Abg. Kickl: I didn't get anything from what you said!]] We would be very committed to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19377	Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19399	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rosenkranz really gave us insight into her world picture. The daughters, the women have to decide: either – or, either family or profession, they have to decide how to organize the compatibility while the men are fine. [[Abg. Kickl: Have you slept too?]] They then take care of the children, if they just want to play a bit, but don't have that decision-making pressure. That's what you brought over here. If you are talking about freedom of choice, you must also say that longer absence from the labour market also results in lower living income and higher risk of poverty, especially in old age. [[Abg. Barbara Rosenkranz: Then we'll change that!]] You have to say that again and again. [[Abg. Barbara Rosenkranz: Then you have to change that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] We want both – as well as, family and profession for both parents, which should be compatible, both parents should feel responsible for it. And we are also for the father's participation, so that this law, this framework, is also filled with life. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS]] We are all jointly responsible and responsible for this. I would ask you to assume this responsibility and actively promote fatherly participation, because there is a very frequent lack of consciousness. You just need to keep in mind: After a child has been born in Austria, fathers do overtime while women reduce their employment. In the Scandinavian countries, it is different: There, both of them reduce their employment and take joint care of the child. This is also supported by the companies. On the other hand, men still have to justify themselves in the establishments in which society, if they actively participate in family work, in child rearing. This needs to change, and I'm looking for you to make active awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19489	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. Vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law, which amends a law on the granting of a bonus for fathers during the family period and the Childcare Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Security Act and other laws, in 1154 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Gamon, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gamon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Rule 2. Whoever speaks for it, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who would like to vote in favour of this bill at third reading. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on: No deterioration for families and Single-parents through the introduction of the child care account! Who is in favour of this request? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues on child care support reform. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pock, fellow Members, on the creation of a right to care for children without a common budget. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Steinbichler, colleagues and others on 'Annual Valorization of Family Benefits'. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, fellow Members, on 'Improved retirement periods per child for childhood'. Who's for it? – This, in turn, is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1155 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1156 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? - That's the majority. Accepted. [[19:10:15]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1684/A(E) by Mr Julian Schmid, Mrs BA, colleagues, on "Generation Internet" (1157 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19676	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens or smartphone displays! We are debating today an all-party proposal on "Generation Internet". To make you feel a little bit about what it's all about now: If apps and snapshots tell you something, if you know what's hidden behind hashtags, tweets and memes, and if you're not afraid of yodel and wow, then it's assumed that you know what we're talking about. If not, the suspicion in the room is that you're too old. I don't want to be naughty, but my generation and especially the disciples, we grew up on the Internet. Much of what is incomprehensible to those who have not grown up with it belongs to everyday life for us and represents an important thing for us. The good news is: Even if you can't start with these terms, it makes the good work of the Ministry of Family and Youth possible that you get too many, many of these things information on the Internet. When it comes to digital games, you can find out at www.bupp.at what is recommended, what is perhaps good things. If you have questions about individual terms, about applications of digital media, social media offers, then you can find suggestions on digi4family.at – a great page – and further information on digital media and such things. Cooperation with Saferinternet is primarily used to identify opportunities and to warn about risks, to explain how to create media competence. That means there's a lot. I would like to offer you a concrete training offer, a webinar. A webinar is almost a seminar that takes place on the Internet. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== There you can find out what it has to do with the stars and role models of today, the so-called YouTube stars. Just click in at 8 p.m. and find out what's going on! It is certainly once an exciting entry into this new world of the Internet. [[Abg. Kickl: That's where I'll look!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kassinger.]] While the Internet, digital media and social media are often associated with dangers, with risks, it is not always about dangers and risks, but from my point of view there is above all a lot of opportunities. It is important to deal with these, to pay attention to what it means when we talk about digitization. I was recently in a gymnasium, second-class lower-level, and asked which social media tools the kids use. Who thinks Facebook is still being used among young people, I say: Just a young girl used Facebook. All the others were on the road on WhatsApp, Snapchat, Twitter and other platforms. That means that everything changes so quickly and develops that you often don't even comply with it. At all this speed, with all this complexity, the Internet will, digital media will determine our future, whether in the profession, in education or in many other areas. I would simply like to argue that this is an opportunity and that we here in the House are dealing with what this means for the future. Should we not perhaps think about whether we know the media competence – which platform, which systems I can use, how information and other things arise there, how I can actively contribute to how I can use all these techniques and, above all, make meaningful use of them – even in our educational efforts a major topic? I believe that this is important, on the one hand, for self-protection and on the other, to exploit the potential that exists. There are numerous start-ups in the field of digital media and app development, and I think we should play in this field if we want to be an innovative economic location in the future. I think digitization is not just about e-books. This is not only a matter of being able to download books as PDFs somewhere; it is also a question of applying the possibilities that arise over the Internet and through these new techniques to teaching. I recently spoke to a young teacher who, for example, does language and reading exercises about WhatsApp. The children are pleased that they are allowed to use their mobile phones, and the positive effect is that they learn the English pronunciation much better than if they read any texts to their parents who may not even be able to read English. For this very reason, because we want us to deal with all these facets, because we want not only the risks, but also the opportunities and benefits of the Internet to be addressed, we have together proposed that a concept be presented, that the many things that are already being dealt with, and that we talk about the things that we might have to do in the future. That is why I call for broad support for this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19748	Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19770	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! ‘Generation Internet’ means: In reality, we are already a step further than this proposal. But still, he's good, he's right, otherwise we'd be, otherwise I wouldn't be with him. Thank you, Julian Schmid, for the initiative! It is high time we worked out and presented a concept that puts the Internet at the centre of our daily life, because it is simply that way. Children – they probably know it either from their own children or from their circle of friends or relatives – with two or three years of use simply tablets, serve laptops, use smartphones. There is no discussion about it, and it is actually like cleaning teeth and eating. In school there are already a number of initiatives, such as the use of tablets in teaching or the teaching principle of media competence. There are projects such as Saferinternet or Internet Ombudsmen. But it just needs something more comprehensive to deal with all that is, from my point of view, very central. These are quite clear in the field of opportunities, such as mobilization on certain topics, critical comments, critical consideration of comments, exchange, networking, many research possibilities and much more. But we also think about the world of work, about fields of work. We are in the age of digitization, and it is now time to respond to it. Professions will be changed by various technologies, and young people, I think, will now have the opportunity to be really put in place. But clearly also in the field of danger: Hatred postings, mobbing on the Internet, sexting or even various networks such as Tinder, Snapchat and Co, there are just things you should be told about. In short, we urgently need a concept, and at this point I can repeat my idea and request, which I have already made known in the Committee: to take children and young people along with them. Let's not talk about her, but let's take her with us. That is exactly what it is all about, but especially when it comes to creating concepts for their generation. They're the experts. Let's join them, just like the Federal Youth Office, Saferinternet and many more. Mrs Minister, you have already made a positive statement on the idea in the Committee. I therefore look forward to the joint implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19818	This is what Mr Schmid has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19839	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Dear listeners on the gallery and in front of the smartphones! I would like to thank you very much for the fact that we have now managed together to make this request. That is not a matter of course. I also think it is important that, since it was an initiative by the youth speakers, it is being made a stronger subject at the Ministry of Youth. The digital revolution is one of the greatest revolutions of our time, and that, so to speak, “old politics” has always been relatively difficult with revolutions, is, I believe, undisputed. That is why it has failed to help a biterl. My first experience in digitization and how it is handled politically by those who have power, I had in my school where I was a school speaker. At that time, there was no Facebook, but we still did a school forum. That was such an old phpBB forum, which we created at the time. And that was incredibly cool, because we students, the whole upper level, have connected us there for the first time, were able to discuss things across the classes. We have voted and so on. In the moment almost the entire upper level was there, about 500 people, and it has grown to an incredible size. So, what happened? – Suddenly, some teachers come to me and say that this is very critical of many. There have also been complaints from the parents because they did not know what was actually happening. And now I was with the director and had a conversation with him. And then we agreed on it or was the political rule, which was then taken in school: We should just keep going, because no one will ever know, and it makes no sense to register as a teacher, for example, in this forum and to moderate that. That was definitely my first experience with it. And what have I learned from it? – That older people or people who are not digital natives sometimes look at the whole thing with fear of danger and concern. I came to Parliament a few years later, and, of course, a great deal has happened between them. And then I suddenly noticed from the ministry that it was going on somehow similar to then. Of course, important topics have already been discussed, not a question, such as sexting, cybermobbing, and online fraud. There are different stories discussed, but it's always a bit out of the fear perspective. There are also really great initiatives – Saferinternet has already been mentioned – that are doing incredibly important work, media skills that really do a lot and wherever I am glad that we have secured the budget every year, but the problem is that it is just such a risk access again. In reality, however, it is the life-reality of many boys who use it every day almost like toothwashing. It's really central to your own life. What I do not want to say is that there are no problems in the digital question. For example, I think that one of the biggest and most central problems that we should solve in Parliament is something that we do not at all answer. This is, for example, the question of data protection, the question of your own identity online. This is something where, in reality, the major future issues of digitization lie and where politics is currently more or less important internationally. The truth is that Facebook, Google, Apple, Microsoft de facto do what they want, and that it is then Max Schrems, the young Austrian who has camped in Ireland for more or less three years in order to sit there with the judges. argues that the data protection agreement with the USA needs to be renegotiated. It is actually wrong that politics should be left out in the case of something that concerns all young people massively throughout life. This is something you think, in any case, should have access to, that politics must make rules, as it did, when the car was invented, to invent traffic rules, or after capitalism has developed, that it needs workers' rights or environmental protection. There is a need for clear rules, and that is something where politics is completely out of place at the moment. That's the one side. The other side is that we not only see this from the perspective of danger, but we want clear rules as digitization is an incredible opportunity. And this is something that could be a roadmap for the Ministry of Youth by the Ministry of Youth becoming an epicenter for what would be an opportunity in the daily reality for young people. Why can't politics go here and, for example, with youthful refugees, where they sometimes get excited that they have smartphones and so on, don't use them and, for example, make apps to learn German? There is incredibly much possible, and I think that is something where politics should be active and what it should support. Why not go here and say that we currently have 150 million follow-up costs a year, but there are international great examples where there are, among other things, especially for the main problem subject mathematics individual tools that are individually tuned and with which one can learn playful mathematics, exactly the teaching material of the upper level? There could be politics, and families could save themselves a lot of money. Or at the universities: We often talk about restrictions on access here. On the other hand, the reality is that, for example, an online course has recently been offered in Stanford, where 700 000 people worldwide have been involved. The University of Vienna has around 92,000 students, and there are 700 000 people participating in a single course. As a policy, we could go in much more proactively and say, we see that we give much more people opportunities to use digitalization. I think that the Ministry of Youth is actually an ideal contact person for this, and I also hope that it will come that far. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19901	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19922	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! First of all: We are in favour of this, because we cannot be against the opportunities and benefits of the Internet and the new media for children and young people. The Internet is very important, children anyway, Hashtag, never again “new country”, and cross-party cooperation is also found. But here we are on this issue again, and we will see this later, for example, in the proposals relating to the Committee on Foreign Policy: We're knocking on the shoulder for joint work and bringing in unspeakable No-Na requests, all of which are in agreement anyway. But if we really take this issue seriously – and we have to take it seriously, there is really the need to do this Addressing the issue here – we must also take ourselves seriously as a Parliament and make serious requests to do so. There are different subjects here. There is a need for extensive measures in the education system. Above all, we must create a cross-generational offer, as it is not only about children and young people, but also about adults who may have come to this technology later on. We also need to avoid trying only to explain the operation of devices, but we need to come to a deep understanding. And if we're already on "My sister said" stories: Julian, I'm an autodidactin and I taught myself programming at the age of 16. I think it would be important to learn programming in schools, for example. That would be a concrete measure, as I would have liked it to be in such a request. A republican senator in America declared the Internet in 2006 because it was, I think, about net neutrality: The Internet, it’s “a series of tubes”. – This is, of course, a perfect mumpitz, and I hope that in this Parliament we will come to a truly progressive understanding of how media work, how technology works, and that we will be seriously concerned here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19964	The next speaker is Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e19986	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers in front of the TV sets! Yes, Mrs Minister, the “most family-friendly country in Europe” is a high goal, but we will do a lot of work on it, and I am convinced of it. I also have quite a wide experience, not only from the family area, but also for 18 years I was a speaker for kindergarten, school and sports. And so many discussions remind me of how parents often had differences of opinion about the teaching methods of teachers. At this point I also have to express my sincere thanks to all kindergartens, teachers and kindergartens, for they do great things with these children, which we sometimes send to teach. Why? We are on the right topic: Internet and social media. Yes, that's great when you hear about the concentration difficulties when children sit in the school that the electronics are taken away at the entrance, which simply can't concentrate – the teachers despair at the front. These are the facts we need to talk about. I think that's the very essential thing. When you talk about communication here, about common conversation, about partnership – that's so wonderful, because most of the people who don't have to live – talk about it: Then you see a vacation car or cars in your own city where four people sit, father, mother, two children, one has the headset on, the other plays on the laptop, the other two play with the computer, and then they say they have made a common trip, but they didn't talk to each other. I'll give you an example from my own family: Every Sunday our Enkerls come to visit. That's funny, they're playing together, we've got conversations, there's communicating with each other. How can you simply interrupt these conversations? – You just have to turn on the TV, the conversations are over, the attention is dedicated to the globule and everything is subverted. That is why, I believe, we should go back from this whole modern world, like Mrs Colleague. Gamon has presented – in this range we move: between social media, between the new electronics and the often quoted house mind. We don't want to play violent games – then let's see what they're watching in the videos. We want partnership – then we look at the hard sex games in the videos. We don't want any weapons – then let's look at the video games that are being seen. We can go ahead with this media – colleague Schmid, right! – don’t close our eyes, but we need a very targeted approach with them, a very, very reasonable one. That is why we support this initiative; see that we find the right dose for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20022	I call Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20044	Mr President. Minister! High house! I must say that I am really pleased that we have a request here, a joint amendment, which will be supported by all parties. I have heard the speeches of the youth speakers here and I must say that it is already impressive how deep our youth speakers are already in this topic and how much they have of course dealt with the subject. One should not hide or conceal at this point that Julian Schmid was actually the father, the driving driver of this issue and it is actually his merit that his application was filed here, which eventually led to a joint amendment request. I would like to thank you very much, Julian. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Personally, I have come up with these topics as a family father and a long-standing parent clubobmann. And it is actually that in these functions one has more to do with the problems of the whole topic than with the opportunities. That is why I believe that if you look at reality in schools, how often teachers, educators are overwhelmed with the topics, you are also overwhelmed by the opportunities that the New Media brings with you, it is very correct and important that we now have a concept here that brings together all the opportunities that exist, the offers that are made, to meet the problems and to be able to benefit from the opportunities that this topic brings. I hope that we will move forward with the concept very soon, and believe that we are on the right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20090	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on "Generation Internet" attached to the Committee's report 1157. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to speak for it to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 153.) [[19:34:03]] 9. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1084, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on the Simplification of Procedures for Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Education and Vocational Qualifications (AuBG) and amending the Education Documentation Act (1160 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1112, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the United Nations, the International Atomic Energy Organization (IAEO), the United Nations Organization for Industrial Development (UNIDO) and the Preparatory Commission for the Organisation of the Treaty on the Comprehensive Prohibition of Nuclear Tests (CTBTO) (1162 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20147	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20175	Mr President. Foreign Minister! High house! I take a position on the government template on the Federal Law, which establishes a federal law on the simplification of procedures for the recognition and evaluation of foreign educational qualifications and professional qualifications and amends the Education Documentation Act. It is a matter of keeping this up, not of subordinate activities, of so-called auxiliary work, but of having so responsible activities, such as legal or health matters, that one assumes that one has to look at exactly how one nostrifies the educational qualifications which have not been obtained in Austria, so to speak, with the Austrians. The motive report shows an OECD report stating that for those with migration backgrounds who have acquired their qualifications abroad, there is a lower employment rate, around 77 percent, than for those with migration backgrounds who have acquired their qualifications in the country. They get 87 percent employment, a job. This is followed by the fact that these facts indicate that people with migration backgrounds, who can show foreign training, have to face significant disadvantages on the labour market. First of all, I think that this conclusion is not as acceptable. I would conclude that Austrian employers trust local diplomas more than foreign diplomas, because, as I said, in both cases, they are people with migration backgrounds. So, honestly, I don't see the conclusion as compelling, nor do others. However, the draft concludes that it is now intended to simplify procedures. I asked you, Mr Minister, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs whether simplification might not be a means of facilitating and reducing levels. You said: No, of course not. When I read this exactly, others – and I share this opinion – are already very skeptical. I may quote from the opinion of the Bar, which says and fears: ‘There is a risk that the recognised high level of qualification in Austria will be reduced by too few rules on the recognition of foreign training and vocational qualifications (...).’ If you read that one gets such a high percentage of employment, the other less, you already have the feeling it's like with the Matura: If few people get the Matura, you have to drop the Matura level. These fears are not just me. Unfortunately, these fears are strengthened in particular by § 8, which concerns special provisions for asylum seekers and people who enjoy subsidiary protection. Because it will be possible for those persons to enter these procedures without presenting documents. As the qualification can now be determined, the bill literally states: ‘Suitable procedures may be, for example, practical or theoretical tests, sample tests, work samples and expert opinions. The selection of the procedure (...) shall be in the discretion of the competent authority." This is really something that gives rise to great concern. First of all, this “in the discretion of the authority” of course opens the door and gate of chance. And as it could be possible that sampling tests can carry out a reliable equivalency test, that should be explained more precisely. So it is really to be feared that – first – the equivalence cannot be determined in this way. This is bad for all those who use the services and thus may be confronted with a level they should not expect. What can only help here is not to lower the level, but to complete a corresponding training in Austria. It's not going to be cheaper. Secondly, however – and the Bar also points out –: If this happens when talking about it and it turns out that there has actually been a loss of level and quality, it is not only bad for those who suffer from it, but it will be bad for the reputation of Austrian education abroad. So far, of course, we have an excellent reputation. However, if it turns out that an Austrian title can be obtained through sampling tests, then I am not so sure whether the trust remains unshakable. I think that needs to be considered. Mr Minister, we will not agree here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20242	Next item is the report by Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20265	Mr President. Minister! High house! We today decide on the recognition and evaluation law, an important measure so that people who come to us to find protection with us, and also get the work permit, can be quickly integrated into the labour market and then can also stand on their own feet. Acknowledgement of professional qualifications acquired abroad is very bureaucratic, and above all advice must be sought to ensure that the authorities are already localized and relocated before the application is made. In this respect, the consultation will be extended. Ladies and gentlemen, two days ago we presented here in Parliament a book from the Institute for the Environment, Peace and Development on how integration can be thought forward. In this regard, there are already very good examples that one does not have to reinvent, which need to be copied, such as the migration mentor of the Chamber of Commerce. However, there were also some valuable contributions, where it was said, for example, that harvest workers and helpers in the tourism sector can currently be employed only 40 hours. But it would be better if they could work only 20 hours, then that would be much more used. Also important is the use of the people, society, so that they can also speak German in the honorary office, the approach to one another. One important factor would also be to introduce role models, as Sebastian Korzgut does, because these best-practice examples motivate and encourage you to go this way. 60 million people worldwide are on the run. The main principle is, of course, to improve the situation in the countries of origin. We have doubled the funds for development cooperation over the last few weeks, and this has been a very important step. But what is also important is what Sebastian Kurzuch calls for: that you carry out a resettlement programme, that you create reception centres where you evaluate with the UNHCR, who receives asylum in Europe, and here you also carry out a resettlement. This is much more just than the current situation. We can see how unscrupulous tugs are going about the tragedies in the Mediterranean. In this respect, we need to take a new path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20305	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20326	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, who follow our debate on their screens! Why did a professional recognition law become necessary? – I bring two very concrete examples of how it has been and is: A nurse from Romania must contact the Ministry of Health for the recognition of his nurse's diploma. A nurse from Serbia must turn to the respective national government for the same thing. In the case of doctors, it looks like a doctor from Hungary has to contact the doctor's chamber, for example, in order to have her diploma recognized in Austria. A doctor from Macedonia, on the other hand, must contact a medical university for recognition. This is actually one of the main reasons why a professional recognition law was necessary for years, and once again became more necessary. If we're going to get out of here now Look at what is changing with this proposal, which will be decided today, and if we stay abroad with the specific examples of the nurses and the doctors with diplomas, then the answer is: Unfortunately, nothing changes. In fact, it remains just as bureaucratic with parallel procedures with different authorities, and it is unfortunately not true that exactly the harmonisation, improvement, slimming of structures for faster, better, more efficient recognition of vocational training and qualifications that has been announced for three years is not happening. Dear Minister Kurz! They have announced for about three years that it will be a groundbreaking law that will be based on Germany, where, by the way, a federal professional recognition law was passed as early as 2012. There were high expectations that were awakened there, but this template unfortunately cannot meet these high expectations. As the examples of foreign nurses and foreign doctors show, almost everything remains with the old. There are a few positive points. In principle, it is useful that people who have learned a profession and have acquired the knowledge and professional experience can use them in Austria, even if they cannot demonstrate a diploma, for example, because they had to flee from the country in which they were trained. The opening up of the way to recognition of qualifications through practical and theoretical examinations is, in principle, positive. It is also positive that, for example, the existing homepage for professional recognition will be expanded and will be able to expect much more information in the future. At the same time, it is true that the necessary shattering of the trade order does not happen again. For example, not only do you need a commercial license for installers or electricians, or are not only this trade regulated industry, but also, for example, not understandably, women tailors or women tailors, where you wonder what it is supposed to be for regulated trades, both for nationals and for foreigners. It is precisely this necessary shattering of the trade order that does not happen once again, and this very opportunity could have been used to modernise both the trade regulations and to really reform the absurd situation with regard to the recognition of nurses, doctors and doctors I have described in detail. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we in the committee responsible have also tabled an improvement proposal for the creation of an efficient recognition and evaluation law. This request was in the usual manner rejected by the government groups. Unfortunately, this will not change the fact that what you want to decide today will remain very far behind expectations and in practice will very, very, very little change and improve. But because a law on recognition and evaluation is in principle a step in the right direction, we will agree to the proposal. However, we are also saying today that we have to look very closely at how and if this law affects, because, as already mentioned, it has massive weaknesses and gaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20383	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20407	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The recognition and evaluation law is a most necessary step in the right direction – and you, Mrs Korun, have recognized this – because a high percentage of migrant workers in Austria are employed under the actual qualification, and this is a waste of resources, especially if the occupations cannot be occupied. Instead, these people – and I wanted to say this, especially the colleague Rosenkranz – are increasing the pressure on the labour market, which is already under great pressure, of low skilled workers. The aim of adequate labour market integration is certainly closer to this law and, above all, the best possible development of the personnel resources available in Austria. This is done by speeding up and simplifying the recognition procedures and also by establishing a uniform or procedural structure, which provides an appropriate point of contact for asylum-seekers and eligible persons, and, subsequently, also provides guidance for potential employers. They have to determine the suitability anyway, but an orientation is at least there. The information portal is also positive, but will certainly not be able to replace further discussions, which are most urgently necessary. This law, Mrs Korun – I have already told you in committee – is naturally not in a position to solve long-term national problems, I think, like division of competence or the overregulation of the trade order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] We have been discussing this for a very long time, just with the economic side. That you need different commercial rights for painting finger and toenails – such as absurdities in our system – we will certainly not be able to solve that by this law, that is clear. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schellhorn and Mr Korun.]] We cannot, however, expect the job seekers and the migrant workers to wait for the end of this discussion. This is being led, and we must finally create clarity in the trade order, but we now need a solution for the people who are on the labour market and who want to recognise their qualifications. This solution is now coming one step closer; whether further steps are necessary will show an evaluation of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20458	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20479	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Actually, the whole thing sounds pretty good when you look from a distance, but when you go a little into the detail, you come to realize that some things are inside that may be a bit too questionable and don't make the whole as optimal as some of them have been presented here. Mrs Korun has brought a few examples which, we simply say, would be comprehensible because she has presented indifferences. In the care we have a problem, in the hospital we have a problem with the doctors – that's right, yes. They have dealt with this from both EU rail and non-EU rail. But what Mrs Rosenkranz said correctly: There are also many asylum seekers who indicate that they have had any profession to study, and then do not have the documents on what is quite understandable in the case of a war refugee. But it's not that easy that you just need to say afterwards: Okay, let's see if he can do something. We can't prove whether he was a doctor in Syria, in Afghanistan or anywhere, or whether he was perhaps a nurse who got a little bit. That's very vaguely formulated. I think you should look at the qualification and check it for heart and kidneys. A next point that gives me a little bit to think about: I was in a southern European country, former Yugoslavia, and I spoke there with a diplomat who told me the following: There you get, if you have enough money, a diploma or a doctorate. And if one wants to come to Austria or where else wants to travel and then examine whether he really studied – if he says he has studied English and then made a doctorate – then they come up with a few words that he only speaks English. That would be a vague story if we decided to do this, and I have a stomachache there, of course. I also have abdominal pain on that point, because it is not differentiated. The Austrian economy needs skilled workers, because we have a shortage. But it is of no use if I now recognize or recognize any diploma that anyone has studied law in Timbuktu, and then he comes to Austria. I think legal scientists have a lot of us themselves, they have to drive some taxis. There's a problem, and I don't think we should force it. We need qualified workers, the economy is hard on it, we know that. We cannot do much in production because we do not have these skilled workers. We have conditions that facilitate this move or this economic migration for qualified workers. That's reasonable, that's good. That's where we took the right path. I think we have to force that – and not that we get workers who are preoccupied that they have studied something in their home country, which may not have done at all and then push out our labour force on our labour market. I think we already have a big problem because we have a lot of unemployed people. In the under-qualified area, of course, we have the next problem, namely that we have a lot of people who have no qualifications. There too we have to think about something, because not all asylum seekers who have come now, or, let us say, very few of them are skilled workers, are key workers, those are what we would actually need, what, according to what has always been mediated to us, would come to us. But when you look at the numbers – the numbers are clear and lying on the table – they say something quite different, namely that we have a lot of unqualified people who enter our social system and endanger our social security somewhere. Of course, we need to think about how we solve this. I think these are the important steps. Unfortunately, we cannot accept this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20531	The next item is the report by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20554	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Hagen, Mrs Rosenkranz, I sometimes do not understand. Maybe that's up to me, but look at this. There are people who may have qualifications, and if they do not have the appropriate evidence, we are now trying to open a new track so that we can check if they actually have these qualifications. There may be only a few, I don't want to judge that at all, but the problem is: If you already have so much abdominal pain in the past that we don't even have the opportunity to check if they have a qualification, then afterwards exactly what you criticize will happen, namely that they then register social benefits and lie on our pocket. That's not going to work out. If we want people who flee to Austria and people who come to Austria to make money ourselves, we must give them the opportunity to work. Otherwise it happens exactly what you always criticize: that they come here and lie on our pocket. You'll have to decide one thing sometime. [[I would like to congratulate the NEOS and the SPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Mölzer:... samples...]] [[Abg. Hagen:... qualified Syrians and Afghans!]] It doesn't matter how many it is, it's about every individual, and that's why we have to open up this opportunity. That's what we're basically trying here. Therefore, this professional recognition law is also useful. Very, very many other measures would be necessary in connection with the integration of refugees in particular. I'd like to take a brief look at that. Mr. Federal Minister Kurz, you know that refugees have to get into language courses much, much faster, especially those where there is a high probability that they can stay, because every day we lose, the costs will be much higher after that. That's something that the state has to pay in the final effect. That's why we have to start earlier. In the same way, we need to see that we do the competence checks much, much earlier, so that we can already know which qualifications are available. And if we don't have those we need, we have to qualify the people accordingly. We need to look at how we deal with access to the labour market for asylum seekers in the process. There is a problem that there are obviously still entrepreneurs in Austria who say that they do not find apprentices in particular. I was in Innsbruck last week and discussed with a construction contractor who told me he had so many free courses, there are... [[Abg. Schönegger: Haselsteiner?]] – No, no, no, not Hazelsteiner, Mr Schönegger, another contractor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The point is, there is obviously a need, and I do not understand why we do not benefit from the possibility when an Austrian entrepreneur says that he needs apprentices – even if they are not infirmaries, that is, obviously in the construction context – and that refugees give the chance to work there, which would at least help us afterwards. What we would need in addition is an expansion of the value courses. I've said that many times. And I am convinced that we need a residence obligation for those entitled to asylum who enjoy social benefits because otherwise we will have the problem that a licensing takes place down in all the federal states and then everyone will go to Vienna. I don't think that's right. Integration will not work either. Since integration is a cross-sectional matter and we have been very well driven by the refugee coordinator with a person who has also accepted these questions, I think it would be useful if we had an integration coordinator who precisely coordinated this cross-sectional matter accordingly so that we can be able to master this great challenge – and that is it indisputably – of the integration of refugees, much, much faster.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20629	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20650	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Scherak, you presented this a little bit shortened. In particular, we criticise the fact that it is being simplified too much and that, for example, we consider the word “sampling” in the review of highly qualified professions to be somewhat vague – on the one hand. On the other hand, it is certainly a command of the hour that we do not necessarily open the labour market even further in the case of low-qualified professions, as I believe. But that's just for that. I would actually like to talk about the promotion of the Vienna International School, which we are discussing on this item on the agenda. It is well known that we liberals have long been in favour of restricting, or even abolishing, various privileges, tax exemptions et cetera for international organisations and their employees. Why? – We keep it in the 21st century. It is no longer necessary in the early 20th century. But especially within the European Union, I do not think it is very objective or justified to grant such privileges. In concrete terms, the Vienna International School is concerned that, I think, we want to directly sponsor about €15 million at four years, to grant a wage tax or exemption for the staff of the school, and that no rent should be paid on the part of this school. On the one hand, we do not think that this is the case in time, and we also believe that the argument that is always being made that there is a high return on the way is only limited to the extent that we do not believe that these international organisations would then migrate if we were to restrict these privileges. In this case, Ban Ki-moon has intervened personally in a letter. However, he did not threaten that the UN, the United Nations, would then give up Vienna as its seat. Another point that is also very relevant: The Vienna International School was certainly funded by the Republic 40 years ago, because there were no comparable institutions in Austria or Vienna at the time. This was certainly a prerequisite from the time one had to create. Today, four decades later, however, we know that, fortunately, there are also several comparable schools and institutions in Vienna, but they do not enjoy these privileges at Weitem, but still experience great encouragement and offer high quality, such as the Danube International School Vienna. Therefore, we believe, it is twice not justified that justament will receive funding from the Republic in this order of magnitude, and will therefore reject this presentation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20684	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20707	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too am dealing with the item on the agenda 10, i.e. with the Vienna International School, as well as the colleague before me. But I may have a slightly different opinion on this. Since 1947, in which the International Atomic Energy Organization was founded, Vienna has been a location of various important international organizations. The Vienna International Centre houses a variety of these international organizations and is also something like the international face of Vienna and thus Austria. The fact that more than 6,000 employees work in these organisations also has a significant advantage for the domestic economy. Ernst & Young has updated a study this year, and this is also very impressive: Net expenditure in Austria alone amounted to almost 550 million euros in 2014. And if one also calculates the economic impact of conference tourism and bilateral organisations, i.e. the embassies and missions et cetera, the economic benefits of the economy as a whole are about €1.4 billion, rising annually and annually. The international reputation of Austria as one of the four headquarters of the UN with a wide range of priorities is reflected in the importance of Vienna, which has increased in recent years, as a venue for important negotiations and talks, the nuclear negotiations with Iran, for example, successfully concluded in July 2015. And the Syria talks also provided an advertising value for Vienna, which is estimated at €100 million. All in all, therefore, one can speak of a very important contribution made by the international bi- and multilateral organizations to the economic success of Austria. The funds and benefits provided by Austria for its part are then really only a fraction. One of these benefits is the payments made by the Republic for the schooling of children by employees of these international organizations. This is due to the seat agreements which were concluded with the four organisations mentioned in the request at the time and from which I do not think it is easy to say goodbye. It was asked in the committee, also by you why it is the Vienna International School that receives the funding. But this is also reflected in the agreement. Since, logically, the organisations concerned know best which school is best suited with which organization and structure to ensure international education, the selection of the school has been left to these organizations, and they have just continued to opt for the Vienna International School, which at least provides 1 400 schools. In the light of the economic importance of these international organisations for the Republic of Austria and the City of Vienna, these expenditures are very useful and useful. I am therefore seeking broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20752	Now Mr Bundesminister has just referred to an opinion on the matter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20774	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As we have already discussed these issues in great detail in the Committee, I can say very briefly, I think. I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to clarify two points. First of all: Mrs Korun, no, we do not solve federalism in Austria, we do not put the trade regulations on the head, nor do we solve all the problems of overregulation with the new recognition law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] But we make it easier and faster for people to have their qualifications recognised in Austria, and above all we create a legal claim that there is a treatment of the application and that this will also take place over a certain period of time. I believe that this is an essential step towards providing services to people who have completed their qualifications abroad and are willing to bring them into Austria. Mr Hagen, you do not need to worry that we are now giving conclusions that we will be too generous. Anyone who has ever had to deal with Austrian authorities knows that much is happening there, but not excessive generosity; everyone who has already tried to recognize some exams during his studies at another place of study in Austria knows that this is partly more difficult than necessary. So I can definitely take this worry from you. It's not given anything, it's not the goal. Nor is it the goal of reducing quality. The goal is clear: If a person brings qualifications, he should have the opportunity to use them as quickly as possible. And I'm here with the honourable Member, Scherak: This is not a benefit to the individual, but I think it is a proper relationship with the individual, but it is something we benefit from as an economy. For we have nothing if people do not have the opportunity to participate in the labour market, nor do we have any of it if people do not have the opportunity to work according to their training. The fact that there will still be people who, due to lack of language skills or because of oversupply on the labour market, do not have the opportunity to get involved is beyond dispute, but we should do everything we can to ensure that the opportunities are best available. Two comments from Vienna International School – I don't want to go into the debate in detail anymore, I just want to say: We should be very happy in Austria that we are headquartered by 37 international organisations. We should be very happy that, although competition in this area is increasing, we have managed in recent years not to lose international organisations, but to keep them and even to settle new ones. This is not only politically interesting, it not only makes Austria more worldly, but it also leads to proper economic advantages. According to Ernst & Young, some 10,000 jobs in Vienna are directly or indirectly dependent on our being located in these international organisations. So we do something good if we maintain relations with these organizations, comply with the agreements with them, and also comply with some of the wishes of the Secretary-General, regardless of whether or not this is the case. Request is associated with an immediate threat or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20831	Mr Walser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20852	Mr President. Minister Kurz! High house! Mr Minister, I can go straight to what you said last time. However, I must say: Theme missing! No one wants to relocate UN facilities. No human would like to make the UN organizations in Vienna difficult. On the contrary! We're all glad we got them. We all want to support them, and we all believe that the children of UN officials must be able to attend the corresponding school. The fact that the Republic of Austria is in the process of doing so also shows the agreement we have already heard from. Only, Minister, you should have talked a little bit about Vienna International School. They talked about the UN organizations. Our question is: Why the Republic Promotes In Austria, these schools have a school, while at least six comparable schools in Austria do not receive funding? This is the critical point, and this is a clear distortion of competition. I am surprised that parties like NEOS are speaking the word here to the monopoly and not to the competition! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have several schools here, and the interesting thing about this matter is that the UN and UN organizations' staff see the matter completely different from you: The staff have written a letter of protest against the Vienna International School because, despite the horendous support given by the Republic of Austria, they are Visiting this school for their children is no longer possible. They have to send their children somewhere else, because the Vienna International School – you have to imagine this once – requires a registration fee – just so that they can bring their child there for the first year at all – of €29 000! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] And as a result, it goes on similarly. I've picked this out exactly: As a result, they pay exactly €21 274 per year. Mr Minister, the staff there can no longer afford to do so. And this is also the reason why only 45 percent of the 1,400 students come from the UN. The rest are very well-known local families. That's what I'm asking myself: Do we, for example, have to overcrowd the Digand family with state subsidies so that they can send their children there? - I don't think so. I have nothing against private schools, I have nothing against expensive private schools, but they should finance it themselves! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For years we have been addressing and criticizing the privileges of this school. EU legalist Walter Obwexer clearly says: What we decide today will lead to an action before the Constitutional Court. We will also support this, because we do not understand that we are continuing this unjustly distorting promotion of competition. Yes to the UN, Yes to support parents there, but give the money, for example, in the form of an educational check to the parents in the UN organizations and then they should be able to move freely on the market. This is our proposal, which would equal all schools and not prefer a school one-sided. One word to add: The funding of the Vienna International School per year is higher than all the alternative private schools combined. This will not be much different in the future either. We need to break this up on the tongue: There we have parents who voluntarily paint the classrooms, there we have parents who organize for their children bazaars who see that there is a school life. And here we have a school that really goes very well, very well and has the so-called 5 million € on the high edge. This was paid by the Austrian taxpayer and the taxpayer! By the way, there is more, in fact, because there are, say experts, still a whole series of hidden reserves in this school, which make up about the same height again. So this is a situation that cannot be accepted. Therefore, it is clear to us that Greens: Yes to the UN, Yes to the promotion of parents and children, but No to a unilateral promotion of this school.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20935	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20956	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Grossmann, has already said everything to simplify the procedures for the recognition and evaluation of foreign qualifications and qualifications. Let me just emphasize how important I am to find the integration of people with migration backgrounds into the labour market and that they are thus given the opportunity to find employment corresponding to their training. Vienna International School: Vienna is the seat of the United Nations and numerous other international organizations. This also requires ensuring a school system for children of international staff through Austria and also through the city of Vienna. This Agreement shall strengthen the maintenance of support for this school in the form of an educational contribution. The financial impact of the Agreement is still €8 million this year, €3 million in 2017, and €2 million each in 2018 and 2019. The Vienna International School has 1,400 students from more than 100 different nations, and a total of 70 languages are spoken there. The class is in English, runs according to the North American and British school system and prepares the students for the International Bakkalaureat diploma. It enjoys a very good national and international reputation. And not only that is a reason why it is supported.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e20993	Mr Schmid has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21015	Mr President. Dear Minister Kurz! High house! My topic: Recognition of foreign diplomas. The current application is concerned with simplifying the recognition of foreign educational qualifications. Education is the principle for a successful long-term career. The Austrian education system has been reformed several times and adapted to the requirements of the economy. From my own experience, I can point out that education diplomas are not generally recognised from the EU area in Austria, as well as high-quality diplomas. Now, our federal territory and thus also our labour market are increasingly burdened by people who have only very underqualified education standards. Foreigners with higher and high qualifications remain involuntarily in Turkey. At the same time, Austria has a steadily rising and unprecedented number of unemployed people to cope with. Indisputable is the fact that working conditions can make a significant contribution to integration. However, Austria's primary objective must be to create jobs for our domestic population and to promote local small and medium-sized enterprises, and not to change legislation in favour of unqualified foreigners. The recognition of foreign and secondary education qualifications would mean a devaluation of home vocational qualifications. The devaluation of existing home education qualifications results in a reduction of well-known Austrian quality, which we cannot afford or should afford and which in the long term will lead only to or more unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21051	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21072	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! When we talk about integration, we also need to act. It's interesting: If we follow the debate here in the House, there are factions who are very likely to take on responsibility here, but unfortunately there are also factions who prefer to withdraw to the snail's house to show their fingers again and again how they do not work. Above all, we see integration in this area as very well given by the EIA, and we would like to support it, because it is through the flexibility of the recognition of qualifications that we can facilitate accelerated procedures and facilitate the entry of job-seekers. If we want migrants to integrate with us and adopt our habits and our rules, we must also give them the opportunity to integrate. This is absolutely essential for us to open up job opportunities for them. It is also quite, very important to support them in learning the German language. I think we're on a good path here. I can say from personal experience from my home community: The asylum seekers want to work, they are really ready, they want to get involved. I can also report on the latest events in the Inn district, where the issue of flood use has been: There too, they have taken an excellent part, and I really want to clear this out. It is not about taking the job away from others, and we also know that we do not have a job for all who are looking for a job here. It's all right. because we offer qualified foreigners the opportunity to enter the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21121	The next item is Mrs. Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21142	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Integration can only work through employment. This is why this recognition law is very important for qualifications acquired abroad, especially in school and also in the field of teaching, because it is another integration measure. As the criteria for assessing qualifications remain unchanged, we do not need to fear any levelling down, and I think that is a major concern for all of us. Through the recognition portal, applicants will find out who is responsible, what he is responsible for and what documents have to be submitted. I expect the law to increase applications for recognition, and I also hope to facilitate the placement of the labour market service as well as the recruitment procedures of companies. From the economic point of view, it is of course useful to have adequate employment, because we do not want to waste training resources, nor can we afford to do so. Unfortunately, the problem lies in the lack of German knowledge, which often hinders adequate employment and in practice leads to resistance, because it is difficult for employees in a company to communicate with asylum seekers or migrants who speak badly. That is why I am very glad, Mr Federal Minister, that you are so firmly committed to the commitment to learn German, because this is a crucial factor in acceptance of the labour market, in the working world and hence also for social recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21182	Mr Grillitsch has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21204	Mr President. Federal Minister! I think the topic of integration, immigration is not suitable for polarization or class struggle. I am very glad that we have a Federal Minister who has the look for the essentials and for the whole, because in this way we can also use the qualifications of those people who have acquired them elsewhere. I believe that Austria must not simply lose its headquarters for international organisations. We need this service for the people who come to Austria with skills. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I am very grateful for this initiative, because there is a high degree of rotation of personnel in international organisations. The safeguarding of schools is an essential criterion for strengthening this seat. Therefore, I believe, the Vienna site for international relations and dialogue must also be preserved. I really ask you: Let's stop it when it comes to... for immigration according to class struggle and polarization! That's not what Austria needs, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21243	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First vote on agenda item 9: Draft federal law, which introduces a federal law on the simplification of procedures for the recognition and evaluation of foreign education and vocational qualifications and amends the Education Documentation Act, including the title and receipt in 1084 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to vote in favour of a sign. [[The representatives of the ÖVP remain seated.]] - I think you're for it, too. Should I read it again? I'd bet you'd agree. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Calls.]] [[The representatives of the ÖVP rise from their seats.]] – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the United Nations, the International Atomic Energy Organization, the Organization of the United Nations for Industrial Development and the Preparatory Commission for the Organisation of the Treaty on the Comprehensive Prohibition of Nuclear Tests, in 1112 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who agrees? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[20:30:29]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1085, e.g._Other Organiser Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part (1161, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21337	We're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21365	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Mr. Federal Minister Kurz! Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking today about the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Mongolia. This agreement essentially covers cooperation in the areas of sustainable development as well as trade and investment. It also includes legal obligations for Mongolia in the area of human rights, the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism. But let me say a few words about Mongolia in general: Mongolia is the second largest country in the world after Kazakhstan, 20 times the size of Austria, with only three million inhabitants. The country has only two neighbours, Russia and China, who are also the most important economic partners. Mongolia is one of the world's most raw materials-rich countries with mainly copper, gold, coal, but also zinc, uranium, petroleum, rare metals and earth. It is not surprising that trade in raw materials accounts for 90 percent of exports. This trade is mainly with China, which, of course, also has a certain dependence. The high level of economic growth in recent years, driven by mining, has recently weakened considerably. Ladies and gentlemen! What are the benefits for Austria in this Partnership and Cooperation Agreement? – Mongolia is not sufficiently open to traffic routes, which also opens up market opportunities for Austrian companies, for road or rail construction, but also for suppliers of other industries, such as mechanical engineering, IT, energy or mining, can make market shares in Mongolia. And both the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development see good market opportunities for European investors in this country. Trade agreements with the EU already exist, but the potential of economic relations has not yet been exhausted. The enormous knowledge of Austrian companies in the areas of tourism, renewable energy and also organic agriculture could lead to a so-called win-win situation in Mongolia. I am thinking only of the great potential of solar and wind energy in the Gobi desert or especially in the South Gobi. A recent report by the International Agency for Renewable Energy and the Mongol Ministry of Energy found that Mongolia could generate up to 15,000 terawatts of green electricity per year by means of solar and wind energy! This is, I believe, a perspective that is also interesting for Austrian SMEs. International economic media also keep the country comparable in development with Dubai. This partnership and cooperation agreement between the EU and Mongolia can and will also benefit Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what helps our companies helps us all, and that is why we also support this European initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21416	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21437	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Through the framework agreement with Mongolia, we are deepening our relations with an important economic and security partner in East Asia, who has long been neglected by the EU. I had the opportunity last September to be in Ulan-Bator for several days to participate in the autumn conference of the OSCE. I have met a country that has achieved unprecedented democratic development for the region over the past 25 years, of its own conviction and of its own strength, without EU support and support, by the OSCE or by the Council of Europe. Mongolia also shares our values and has already achieved a good position in human rights. It was not until last December that the Mongolian Parliament finally abolished the death penalty. But democracy, the rule of law and human rights are still very young. Therefore, there is great interest in Mongolia in the experience we have gained in the EU in supporting and strengthening the institutions of young democracies. In particular, the new agreement would provide a good basis and a good basis for this, because, in addition to economic relations, the agreement provides for greater cooperation in the sustainable development of democracy, the rule of law, freedom and security. Our security policy is another area in which Mongolia is an important partner. Here, too, we share ideas and ideas – Mongolia and Austria. Mongolia, like us, is building on dialogue and peaceful cooperation to implement common security. Outside the OSCE, for example, she initiates the Ulan Bator Dialogue to bring different actors from North and South Korea, Japan, Russia, China to an exchange. Moreover, Mongolia is very active in nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and has already declared its territory a nuclear-free zone in 2000. I am therefore sure that this framework agreement is very positive for both sides and provides a good basis for important common social and security development and for projects in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21477	Mr Dr. Karlsböck is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21498	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We liberals will agree to the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part. [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo!]] I can only say: I have also been able to convince myself in Mongolia that the country is experiencing an upturn and that it has also tried to build up legal structures according to the Western model not only – they already have – but also to deepen. All the measures that are appropriate to promote this development are therefore to be supported from our point of view. The comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement between the EU and Mongolia, which is envisaged for the decision, is an important step in this direction, as it strengthens cooperation in the areas of sustainable development, trade and investment and thus contributes to the prosperity which, as we all know, forms the basis for stability and progress. In return, Mongolia will be obliged to strictly respect human rights – they are already doing – to participate in the fight against terrorism and to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction. As the agreement also covers the areas of migration and social affairs, i.e. areas that are inseparably linked and mutually affect each other, there is a legitimate hope that we can not only contribute to the economic upturn in Mongolia, but also help the country to build functioning legal structures. But even more important than the agreement between the European Union and Mongolia, it would be possible to think now about how Austria can deepen intergovernmental relations with individual countries that we are dealing with in stepmotherly. We can take this issue as an example of the foreign policy position and the foreign policy commitment of the Federal Government. If, for example, we are now taking Mongolia back, it is forgotten and has not been emphasized in any speech until now that this country offers the best training for girls according to international statistics. That is, there is the index, the so-called equal treatment index in education. They're number one in these statistics. If I turn aside a little bit and take a different example, you may wonder that I am addressing this, but in Rwanda, 70 percent women are represented in Parliament. This country also has one place on a certain ranking. I am saying this because Austria has not developed any interest at all in regard to these example countries, which have an incredible potential and which have undergone an incredible development over the last 20, 25 years, and has not put any diplomatic activities there and leaves these countries to the left. All we hear about these countries today is, of course, right: You should, you should, and they're trading partners. That's a hundred percent to sign. But what is happening to me – we are politicians – is the active support of political development in these states and, above all, the participation of the Austrian Federal Government in the form of a foreign policy activity in these countries. Now I know that our resources are scarce. I have also mentioned this during the last two days of foreign policy, how we really leave Africa to the left in relation to diplomatic representations, we do this partly in Asia. Of course, in Ulan-Bator China's care is somehow taken for, but it will forget that Mongolia has a message here, is really touchy and is trying to do it. What do I want to say? I would like to say that I am entirely concerned that we have a so-called master plan here. I also assume that, if we have no resources available, proposals come from the Ministry and from the Federal Government, how we can compensate for these things. We could compensate them by taking unorthodox measures in foreign policy in these regions, by promoting associations that are particularly involved in them, or foundations, or from me, even NGOs from the Ministry's resources, as others do. Our neighbouring countries are doing this, the Hungary, the Slovaks are doing this, and Germany is exemplary in these projects. So: I would like to see these proposals coming from the ministry, that there is an increased commitment here, one can say, to a second level, so that we can accompany and, of course, share in their development those countries that have a real upturn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21534	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill is next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21555	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the agreement is intended to provide an improved legal basis for relations between the EU and Mongolia. The agreement is to be welcomed in principle and, in large part, to be positive. It is about sustainable development, we have just heard about it, it is about ensuring that human rights in Mongolia continue to be safeguarded and economic relations are well developed. It seems, however, that it is important to look more closely at some article or article. In Article 2 of this Agreement, the aim of this Agreement is not only to conduct a comprehensive dialogue, but also to ensure that efforts are made to work together in the areas of law, freedom, security, as has already been done, including the rule of law, legal cooperation, data protection, migration, seclusion and trafficking in human beings. Article 31 then states that ‘cooperation in the field of migration’. This is a clear question of readmission agreements, as it is very clearly about the determination of nationality and the support of Mongolia, and it is about the European Union providing financial assistance in these areas of implementation. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The EU has readmission agreements with 17 countries in total, and Austria itself has bilateral agreements with 22 other countries. – So far to the facts. It is, however, the fact that readmission agreements – which is now much and very much discussed – will only work if there is a genuine willingness to cooperate in the countries of origin. What happens in Austria now? Calls are getting louder and louder that there will be consequences for those countries that do not implement such readmission agreements and the European Union's readmission policy and also Austria's as it is wanted. It is not being considered, as the previous speakers have already said, to actually provide economic incentives for those countries which should actually conclude such agreements. It is not thought about setting fair commercial policy accents, nor is it thought of forcing improvements for people on the ground. On the contrary: It is considered whether or not the only financial support, namely through development cooperation, should be shortened, deleted or suspended. To suspend this support – Mr Minister, you know that, and we have discussed it more often – is clearly a wrong way because development cooperation is not only there for poverty reduction, but is primarily to support sustainable projects on the ground. Many countries with which readmission policy is intended to cooperate do not involve any development cooperation funds at all. That is to say, the image of the damocles sword that hangs over these countries would not be applicable here at all. Support for the civilian population would be clearly turned off and suspended. That is to say, those groups of people who are actually supported by development cooperation would then, as it were, thinn out. The EZA is poverty reduction, as has already been said, and the big question is: What about already existing projects of the Austrian Development Agency and development cooperation and the priority countries of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I also brought this example to the Committee, the example of Pakistan and economic partnerships. The OMC operates two schools in Pakistan. €500 000 for this five-year project comes from Austrian taxpayers; the vocational training project was taken over from 2013. What would it mean if Pakistan did not implement readmission agreements now? Would that mean that you, Mr Foreign Minister, then knock at the OMV and say: Dear OMV, I am sorry that what I have promised you, where there are also contracts in terms of sustainable development cooperation and education, is no longer valid? To say an OMV, Minister, you will not, I believe, do. Even if you don't listen now and look into your phone, it's so that I don't think you're going to negotiate with the OMV, but I think that's just an empty threat that stands once again in the room as a floskel without actually being sustainable in... [[Abg. Brunner: I am afraid the Foreign Minister will not be able to reply because he does not listen!]] [[Federal Minister Kurz: I already know that!]] So: Set accents, Minister, see that fair trade policies are being taken! And if you already know it, you could finally give an answer here in the House. Threats alone will bring nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21605	The next item is Mr Dr. Türr's report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21626	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In this 75-page agreement between the European Union and Mongolia there are two exciting key points for me. This is about democracy and human rights on the one hand. Mongolia is here on a stable, very, very good path. This should be supported by a dialogue with the European Union. On the other hand, it is about trade and investment, as Mongolia offers Austria exciting opportunities. It is an economic area of hope. I can determine: Before and until 2014, the Austrian exports had fallen, but in 2015 the volume of exports rose to over €34 million. That is to say, it is also a hope area for the Austrian industry. I would like to mention three Austrian companies: the Vienna-based VAMED, the Vorarlberg company A.M.I., which supplies medical and technical products, and the Upper Austrian company Rosenbauer from Leonding, which can score beautifully with extinguishing vehicles and fire equipment in Mongolia. The Austrian Federal Government is also relying on export promotion with soft-loan credits for Mongolia. This simplifies trade, especially in cooperation with development cooperation. This revives trade, and it also promotes the reputation of the Republic of Austria in this region. This shows that politics can be bridge builders, bridge builders between the Austrian economy and, for example, Mongolia. Good foreign policy is always an excellent foreign trade policy, the best export promotion for the Austrian economy. This means that policy creates good conditions for maintaining jobs, for re-establishing jobs. This is a very good foreign policy, also in the best tradition of Bruno Kreisky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21669	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaks next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21690	I'll make it short. I believe that this agreement with Mongolia shows quite clearly how politics works twice. This is a country that is torturing human rights with feet, which has admittedly abolished the death penalty, but still does not think anything of gay rights or otherwise respects human rights. This is a country that does not take any refugee and is still proud of it. This is a country that is huge, has a very serious male shortage, so a surplus of women, and still does not even take a single refugee because they say they want nothing to do with the Geneva Refugee Convention. That's what I heard in the original and in the o-tone of the Mongolian ambassador. This country is rich in raw materials, there are economic prospects there, and that's why you just throw everything overboard, which you always bring to the meeting again and again, when you talk about Hungary, which also wants to preserve its independence. There's suddenly evil, of course you can't. But if Mongolia, which, as Mr Ertlschweiger said, is so rich in raw materials and offers so many opportunities, then all this is simply thrown overboard. Just like Saudi Arabia, which can do whatever it wants. The main thing is it is done firmly, and everyone is happy. And this is this dual nature, this dishonest policy that is being pursued here. That is why you do not come to me with human rights and European values, because when it comes to the mammon, the money, then the European values are nothing worth it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21726	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1085 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who agrees? – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:53:03]] 12. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1148, e.g._Other Organiser Declaration by the Republic Austria on the opposition to the accession of the Republic of Kosovo to the Convention on the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents of Certification (1163 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21769	We're coming to 12. Agenda item. However, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the next vote will take place after only three speakers. There is no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21805	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers on the screens! As the President-in-Office has just said, we are dealing with the Declaration by the Republic of Austria on the opposition to the accession of the Republic of Kosovo to the Convention on the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents of Certification. This Convention is also referred to as the Hague Convention on Certification. The title is quite bulky, and that is why I would like to explain very briefly what it is all about. The multilateral Hague Convention on Certification regulates the recognition of foreign documents by the so-called apostille. Under an apostille you can imagine a simplified form of legalisation of public documents for international legal traffic. In good German: The apostille is a certificate of authenticity and facilitates the recognition of foreign documents in mutual exchange or mutual cooperation. In addition to Austria, more than a hundred other states have so far joined the Hague Convention, including the Republic of Kosovo in 2015. We are now concerned in this declaration that Austria does not consider the Republic of Kosovo to be mature and therefore must object. The reason for this is that, unfortunately, there is still a bit of corruption in Kosovo and that it cannot be ruled out that there may still be certificates in Kosovo. According to Transparency International, the Republic of Kosovo takes only 103 out of 197 countries under investigation. Unfortunately, we see a very high risk in the issue of passports, certificates of residence, birth certificates, certificates of marriage, certificates of education and so on. It could therefore be quite clear that such documents may also be purchased on the black market. If we were not to raise this opposition, for example, our message in Priština would not be subject to formal control and Kosovon documents would have to be recognized without testing. In addition to Austria, for example, Germany also plans to object because of the document uncertainty. We will now vote in favour of this declaration, but of course we would like to express our hope that the situation in Kosovo will be improved and that we will no longer need it in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21848	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Krist.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21873	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Some have mentioned my previous speaker, yet I like to repeat it. The purpose of the opposition to the accession of the Republic of Kosovo to this Convention is to prevent the authorisation of cosovar documents fitted with an apostille without further control of authenticity and content accuracy in procedures before domestic authorities as evidence. However, I would like to stress that this opposition to the accession of the Republic of Kosovo to this international agreement is not to be understood as an act against Kosovo. On the basis of this opposition, it is only clear that some reforms still need to be made with our neighbours in Kosovo and that this country still needs our support. Ladies and gentlemen! The corruption index has just been quoted: 103. Job. This high level of corruption and the low level of income in Kosovo increase the risk that documents with incorrect content can be purchased on sale. This can, for example, be very problematic in the human situation, such as in the exhibition of passports. If such a certificate is accompanied by a purchased apostille, the formal control option shall be eliminated by the Austrian local representative. By maintaining full diplomatic certification, we therefore want to protect our jurisdiction from purchased, false or incorrect documents. At the same time, there should also be a signal to the countries concerned, in this case Kosovo, to develop positively and to continue to drive legal certainty. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Stability and the rule of law in the Balkans are of great importance to us. Austria has been supporting for many years, for example, the development of a modern university system in Kosovo. Investing in education is very important not only in Austria, but in principle an important building block in order to consolidate the state structures in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21912	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21933	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think this is really fine, that Parliament is trying to argue diplomatically, especially as far as Kosovo is concerned. I think this is very good and very positive. However, it should be said that it is simply a fact that Transparency International, as mentioned earlier, does not issue good grades to Kosovo in the corruption index and therefore, of course, the certification of public documents or the control of the certification of public documents must be continued. That is why it is also important that this opposition is clearly decided here, because it simply means foreign policy with backbone. At the same time, however, it must also be seen that Kosovo can be supported by Austria in particular where it has problems – it should also be supported. Especially when it comes to avoiding corruption, I think it is parliamentary, but it is also a government task to actually support Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e21961	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1148 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:01:04]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 1674/A(E) by Dr Josef Cap, Dr Reinhold Lopatka, Tanja Windbüchler-Sushill, Mag. Christoph Vavrik, colleagues on the importance of the United Nations (1164 d.a.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Christoph Vavrik, colleagues on the election of states or their representatives in international bodies (1166, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22030	We come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22057	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear citizens! “The death penalty is probably contrary to the most important human right, namely the right to life.” – These were the words of you, Mr Berlakovich, last year in February. I would like to add another quote from Mr Feichtinger from the SPÖ. He's not here today – I think he had to clear his seat in the short term, but he's coming back to us, as I mean. [[Abg. Lopatka: He's coming back!]] He advocated – and I quote him – that it “will not let down official Austria (...) do everything to ensure that the death penalty is abolished worldwide”. The occasion for these two statements was the adoption – then, in February 2015, one and a half years ago – of a resolution entitled “Preserving the pioneering role of Austria in abolishing the death penalty”. The reason for two sides was quite long, but the reason was that one was afraid that a certain setback was taking place, because after years of progress the number of executions had increased by 15 percent in the year before. The resolution was also adopted unanimously. What's happened since then? – Unfortunately, nothing good. At the international level, the number of States executing the death penalty has increased by three to 25, but above all, the number of executions worldwide has just exploded by plus 54 percent to the highest level for 25 years. Several states that have spoken of a moratorium have suspended this, first of all Pakistan, which has executed a few hundred people. Other states play with the idea of reintroducing the death penalty, for example the Philippines, but also a neighbouring country such as Hungary. So, unfortunately, there is a threat of a certain turnaround. What happened in Austria? Despite the motion for a resolution, I personally did not see an intensification of the efforts to do more here. On the side of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is repeatedly stressed: Yes, it is intervened, bilaterally, on visits and so on! On the homepage of the BMEIA you will find a paragraph on the death penalty, which implies that this is a priority. But if you continue to search for human rights in the chapter, nine priorities are listed there and the abolition of the death penalty is not included in these priorities. Well, that's a half-hearted commitment to me, but it should not be surprising, because the motion for a resolution was also quite weak and actually consisted of a series of words, from, at best, immeasurable to largely empty demands, so there can be no talk of a push. I won't read everything, but a few examples of it: “The Federal Government is invited to promote initiatives (...), to promote a moratorium...” and “civil society organisations working for the abolition of the death penalty to “cooperate and support them (...)”. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! I have researched a little bit, and it is interesting that I have found an almost word-like resolution from February 2012 and then – even further back – one from December 2010. It called on the Federal Government to remind China of its obligations under international law or perhaps to call on Russia to sign the thirteenth additional protocol to the ECHR – that is, all very half-hearted reheating attempts at a very thin soup. That is why we have tabled NEOS a motion for a resolution calling for concrete, visible, courageous steps within the meaning of Mr Berlakovich and Mr Feichtinger's statement mentioned at the outset. And it was about the following: first, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs simply brings on its homepage the list of countries that still carry out the death penalty. Of course you can find this list also at Amnesty International or at Human Rights Watch, but it's already something else if this list is found on the homepage of a foreign ministry. Secondly, we call for Austria to refuse to vote against these countries when choosing countries in the leading bodies of international organisations. I'd like to stress what it's all about: It is not about sanctions, it is not about breaking down diplomatic relations, it is not even about reducing economic relations, what the Greens are calling for in this context again and again, but only about the fact that Austria would make it clear from the outset that Saudi Arabia, for example, would by no means receive the Austrian vote in the elections to the Human Rights Advisory Council, as it might have been a few years ago; we do not know exactly. It is, of course, deeply disappointing that this request was rejected, on the grounds of Mr Bayr, who had gone too far, because we cannot, as a matter of priority, refuse to vote two permanent members of the Security Council, namely China and the USA, who have the death penalty. The others don't have them. [[Abg. Bayr: Three!]] Russia has de facto abolished it – i.e. three, for me. I'm asking: Why not? Don't we trust ourselves? We have no right to veto, there are still 200 members of the United Nations who can give their votes if they want to. Is the abolition of the death penalty not so important to us that we are not prepared to exert gentle diplomatic pressure on countries such as China, the USA or Saudi Arabia? - Apparently not! This was, by the way, a reason which, to my great surprise, also the Greens, and so we experienced that concrete measures, in my opinion proportionate, comprehensible and also visible, were rejected in the fight against the death penalty. – So much to promise to do everything, so much to our credibility. Instead, we will decide today the x-te edition of a completely toothless placebo application brand SPÖVP: the same flakes as one and a half years ago, as four years ago, as six years ago in a slightly modified order, i.e. a variation on the issue of insignificance. That's why I'm directing the appeal from here to you, Minister of State Kurz: In the fight against the death penalty, let us take the next step! Let us live the confession that – I quote you – “the worldwide abolition of the death penalty (...) is a top priority for Austrian foreign policy”. - Quote. Let us put in addition to the bilateral discussions you regularly conduct, courageous and visible signs to the outside! Let us not leave it with exhorting words, but also do what we can to prove that Austrian foreign policy is not only guided by economic interests, but also by values. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22112	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22134	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vavrik has a high credibility in this question, but I have to say the following at the outset: In my opinion, if we were to follow NEOS, we would place an overwhelming act here, which would also bring us into a special situation within the 28 EU Member States. We must do everything we can to respect the death penalty, as I am also a hundred percent of the opinion of NEOS, on the other hand, we cannot fix this only question, who can then be represented in important international organisations – it has been addressed before. That's our position. And there are no placebo decisions we take. I think Austria has a high credibility when it comes to the fight against the death penalty, and it is also good that we are dealing with this issue here in the House. But this debate is not only about this issue, it is also about the United Nations as a whole. And it's good that we had high visits a short time ago: ==References== In April, the first guest, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, was Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations, and here he has taken the floor and called for stronger international solidarity from us. ==References== April has actually not improved in any area when I think of the global challenges as regards refugee flows – 60 million people are fleeing worldwide – when it comes to the fight against Islamist terror, whether in the USA, Orlando or, last but not least, in Paris. That's a It's a huge challenge. We see that joint action, if possible under the umbrella of the UN, is irreplaceable and more necessary than ever. When it comes to human rights issues when it comes to taking peacekeeping measures, but also when it comes to the major climate issue, the United Nations is of its importance in a position as they have never been before. Austria should only join the good tradition that characterizes us: when it came to UN efforts to use the UN blue helmets. We were there from the beginning. At present, 100 000 UN blue helmets are in operation in 16 peace operations. With regard to international treaties, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon spoke of the fact that in the International Community’s language ‘Vienna’ is equivalent to global action. He mentioned the Vienna Declaration of Human Rights, the Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Layer, the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties and he also spoke of Vienna as a place where historical agreements are made. The last one was the one concerning the nuclear union with Iran. All of us can only hope that at the end of the Syria talks a result is possible, which actually points towards peace. That's why I'm saying: The first question raised by Mr Vavrik is an important one. We are all obliged wherever we can to do everything we can to abolish the death penalty – perhaps we still experience it – worldwide. On the other hand, it is equally important that Austria and in particular Vienna as a bridge builder carry out this task now and also in the future, which has awarded us over the last decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22189	Next, Mr. Dr. Cap will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22210	In principle, I can agree with the previous speaker's words, I would just like to add one more thought in the short time available to me for this discussion, namely: At certain intervals, the effectiveness and functioning of the UN are discussed again and again. It has a wide variety of terrain, whether this is in the area of refugees, whether it is in the area of peacekeeping, whether it is in all these areas that are of utmost importance, but it is already true that, when you think of the UN Security Council, sometimes the representativeness of the composition, about the veto right that can be used, justified discussions are held again and again. When we see the photos of the G7, we often ask ourselves the question which have become more powerful economic nations lately, in fact, not at this G7 meeting. It could also be asked who really is missing in the Security Council and who should also have a meaning there in order to start these opinion-forming processes. I can still remember the speech of the Dominique de Villepin when, as it turned out later, these lies were presented in order to legitimize the Iraq war. Also this question, where the UN will be dealt with, where one does not take primary account of this, yet moral and political authority of the UN, is addressed. So there are many things that must be discussed and considered in the future. For this we should take time, not only to question the importance of the UN and not only to be delighted when Ban Ki-moon is here in Vienna, but – because we are one of the UN's headquarters, because we are offering in Vienna whether this is now for peace talks about Syria, whether Vienna has played an important role in this Iran discussion and these Iran treaties – perhaps we can contribute to these perspectives which could indeed strengthen the functioning and effectiveness of the UN. On the other hand, I also believe that what Mr Vavrik has put in here at the outset is certainly done out of honest conviction. I agree that everything should be done to fight the death penalty. By the way: I would like to add a global nuclear-free zone to me at once, which is the importance and the assessment, we should only know with what forces we can achieve in what steps. And if we were to work with China, the USA and Russia at the same time, Mr Vavrik, I would like to have a more detailed plan from you, how you want to achieve it, and with what effects and effects this is supposed to take place.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22253	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22274	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the request made by SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS on the importance of the UN. As already stated in this proposal, the UN is more important than ever, 70 years after its creation. It is the most important international organisation for impartial peacekeeping and conflict resolution, and the issue of migration will only be solved internationally and jointly by the world community. My group will therefore vote in favour of this motion. However, I would like to make a few comments. The positioning of Austria is clearly positive as a place of international dialogue and the strengthening of Vienna as one of the four offices of the UN. Austria has the opportunity to highlight its advantages as a neutral country. Unfortunately, however, the reasons for the request for the neutrality so estimated by the Austrians were not received. Apparently, it is not of such importance to the applicant. In other words, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European We see it as an obligation to uphold and preserve Austria's ever-increasing neutrality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This includes the use of the Austrian blue helmets for peacekeeping. At this point I would like to thank our soldiers very much for their excellent use. This operation is partly carried out under difficult conditions. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact is, however, that the German army has really been broken down in recent years. It would therefore be consistent to save on a temporary basis also in the field of foreign operations and to reduce them to useful measures of humanitarian aid, disaster aid and priority education. I refer to the FPÖ's request on this subject, which is already before the Committee on Defence and could be put to the vote at any time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Among the less positive aspects is that the United Nations has problems with credibility. Especially in the area of human rights, it was shown that the UN is extortionable by Member States. I would like to give you an example. There is an Annex to the UN Report on Children in Armed Conflicts. This Annex lists countries condemned in wars because of the killing and renunciation of children. According to this report, the death of 510 children killed in wars last year in a total of 785 goes to the account of that coalition of nine Arab states leading Saudi Arabia. What does Saudi Arabia do now? – It insists that the countries of the Saudi Coalition in Yemen be removed from the Annex. The threat of withdrawing from the UN, in any case, makes this possible. It is therefore a smooth financial blackmail that does not benefit the credibility of the UN. Finally, I would like to refer to the statements made by the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who has already been thankfully mentioned here. In his speech, he has indeed criticized Austria with his words “increasingly restrictive immigration and refugee policy”. These verbal figs, ladies and gentlemen, we have not deserved Austrians. Because in the past we have repeatedly received refugees and helped them. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I only remember 1956, 1968, 1991 and 1992. The current wave of migration exceeds all previous figures. Again, the Austrians help – including both massive strains of financial and social tensions and increasing crime. I mean, instead of riding attacks against Austria, Mr Ban Ki-moon should better use his remaining time as UN Secretary General to find a global solution to the migration problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The solution cannot be taken alone by Europe. It is time to demand solidarity from the world community and not just from Austria. The next UN summit will be held on 19 November. September this year, and it would be an excellent opportunity to set a Millennium target to reduce migration flows. That would be a worthy farewell from his office at the end of 2016 and at the same time an ambitious project for his successor or his successor! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22371	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22393	Madam President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Ban Ki-moon as the Secretary General of the UN, which has existed for over 70 years, has every right to criticise Austria as to restrictive refugee policy and migration policy. Of course, Ban Ki-moon has the right to do so. He also has the right to call on the Austrian Government to make more financial resources for the UN and for the United Nations Help Organisations. It is also his right – not only his right, but also his task and commitment as the Secretary-General of this great organization, which is the only one for peace and human rights – to take a very clear view of this. And that's why he has the right to do that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From the side of Parliament, and this is addressed to Mr Vavrik, I believe that the strengthening of the UN and UN aid organisations can always be part of the debate, because strengthening is something important. And, of course, we parliamentarians and parliamentarians should also ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Minister to become active on certain routes. That's our job. But our tasks are also to make it clear whether the Foreign Minister actually implements what we are commissioned to do. We have a wide range of options for this, and that must be observed. The proposal, which was put together here, refers to the UN organization, which has existed for 70 years, with the many small sub-organisations and sub-organisations, and it is precisely about strengthening human development in principle. And it's also about fighting climate change. Mr Kurz, I hope I do not have to text you now, because the Paris Agreement and its ratification were not even worth a debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Now there is finally a government template in this regard, and I am very pleased, because our environmental spokesperson Christiane Brunner, too, has vehemently emphasized that this agreement is being ratified. In Bälde, this government template on the climate agreement will be dealt with in fact in the Environment Committee, hoping that the ratification will take place here in July-Plenum. This is a big step that we have been calling for for for a few months, a big step towards climate protection, to make a further step towards fulfilling the Paris Agreement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also about securing peace. To this end, the UN is here, and this is also the only organization that still maintains this hope worldwide. Mr Kurz, will you also invite the Syria Contact Group back to Vienna, will there be further talks? Is there any accents that you personally will put that, in fact, peace exists again in Syria? This cannot be something that only we parliamentarians want, but something that the entire international community wants. And if Vienna and you prepared the ground that the Syria contact group meets again, then of course this would be another good step. As a fourth point in connection with the UN, human rights should be mentioned. The UN's task is to enforce the respect of human rights in all its universality, and that is not to say that the West is telling other countries what human rights are and what they have to do, no, human rights have always been universal, for all people of the whole world, to support and to preserve human dignity. These four points are very important, and it is therefore also necessary that such requests be made by Parliament. But unfortunately it is that the request once again lacks the concrete steps and the financial commitments. You know, Mr Minister – and we are discussing this very thoroughly and very often here – that the design of financial resources needs. A week ago, there was a conference of the UN Women in Graz, which according to articulated “we must walk the talk”, i.e. not only to put flakes into space, but also to force implementation and to provide financial resources. It is mainly about women on the run. We know that in the camps around Syria, women and their children are affected by great violence, sexual violence, discrimination, exploitation, rapes, forced marriages. All of this could be halted if we were finally to provide, Mr Minister, UN Women and UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund with financial resources. The people there can actually help the women and the children, but they We need the financial resources for this, which unfortunately will also be reduced again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The UN should be strengthened, not a question, but of course also the UN policy of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Minister. Mr Vavrik said earlier that we had rejected the request he had made, so to speak, lapidar. That's not true at all. I would like to reject this claim. It is a question of UN organisations acting on human rights, which should also clearly be given veto by our side, when it comes to countries which have not yet abolished the death penalty. That's quite clear, and I think we'll meet. However, your request, Mr Vavrik, is overwhelming and difficult to implement. Focusing on Mr Vavrik's request by giving him clear competence in this area from our side, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The abolition of the death penalty must be a top priority in all the interests of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's the green one of us, it's out of question.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22492	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22556	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22578	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I think Austria is a guarantee for the UN. We don't have the UN seat in Vienna for nothing. Austria has always been very active in the UN. We once had a UN Secretary-General, who was then also President of the Federal Republic of Germany. He has done his job as a UN Secretary-General very well, we know. In the Middle East it has been very recognized. I believe that, as a neutral state, we are an important country for the UN, a country that has a name in the UN and which is mentioned very positively in the UN. It is not in vain that – and I have to mention your invitation positively now, Mr Foreign Minister – the Middle East talks about Syria and so on take place in Vienna. I don't think that's a matter of course. This is because the UN trusts Austria. I believe that this trust is not unfounded and this request has an absolute right; of course, we will be happy to stand by it. Now to Mr Vavrik's request concerning the death penalty: I've heard arguments here that he's too extravagant and what I know, but I think you have to think about it. Vienna is also the seat of organisations of various countries. And some time ago we discussed Saudi Arabia, whether the mind on Friday is on the agenda or not. And that's where I have to say: If you want to change something and discuss it, you have to be able to address it openly. I believe that the death penalty is not a good thing, because of course it is often abused to get rid of politically unpleasant people. I therefore believe that this request by Mr Vavrik has absolute authority. What bothers me in this discussion is that it is said that it is superfluous and too far-reaching and this and that. I believe that in the death penalty we can also send a signal and show courage – as Austria, as a neutral state, a state that is the seat of the UN with Vienna and which is very recognized by the UN. I think we should put a sign in this direction before, and that is why I would think that this request should be supported. Our group is the only one who has supported this request in the committee, except the NEOS who have put it in place. I think it would be necessary to think about whether we should not start a process with certain, perhaps even sharp formulations, which might then lead to a positive result. That is why we shall vote in favour of this request. Unfortunately, there is a negative committee report. I therefore call on the other parties to agree to Mr Vavrik's request, perhaps to go into it again and to contribute to starting a process to eliminate the death penalty, which often takes on very terrible proportions and really eliminates political opponents. [[Abg. Zinggl: What does the death penalty mean...?]] – What does that mean? - You know that yourself. I believe that the Greens are the last to blame, because it means that the death penalty is abused in order to eliminate political opponents. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Zinggl.]] The death penalty is certainly the wrong way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] – No, the death penalty must be abolished in all countries! I believe that this request goes very clearly in the direction of putting a signal that it is once made clear that this is the wrong way and that, in the sense of humanity, no one should be killed, for whatever reason. That's the right way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22626	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22648	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think there is broad consensus in general that we are against the death penalty. The House has said this quite clearly several times. It is only about the request that we do not share the opinion on the means, because we believe that it is not useful, as the idea of your request provides. We think that a very laborious process – in many infinite ways speak and action – it is necessary to achieve the same thing. We do not think that the means you are proposing are sensible, with all due respect. 70 years United Nations – today more timeless than ever! The importance of the United Nations is greater than it has ever been because the United Nations offers a platform for states that sometimes engage in war conflicts. Therefore, it is useful – and often underestimated – that there can be parties to the dispute and at least have a basis for the joint. It is important to create places or meeting rooms where conflict parties can meet, so to speak, on neutral ground. These are the United Nations, the UN. This is also Austria, in particular Vienna. And it is a merit of our Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz that here the talks on nuclear negotiations concerning Iran has been very successful and the conflict parties have been brought to a table during the talks on Syria. There were Vienna and Austria as ideal meeting places for bridge builders. This is an important contribution to international understanding and peacekeeping. Clubobmann Lopatka quoted Ban Ki-moon. I can add this quote to the statement made by Ban Ki-moon when he said here in the House that Vienna is a turning point for the activities of the United Nations. This is particularly true in the areas of nuclear energy, the fight against drugs and crime and industrial development. They certainly all know the many international organizations that are working here within the UN: the International Atomic Energy Organization, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and many more. Including OSCE and other international organisations outside the UN, this means a lot of positive. The United Nations intentions are timeless. This includes the tasks of securing peace and achieving a solution to global problems. At the same time, however, the United Nations is also being criticized. At many UN climate conferences, I have experienced how difficult it is to achieve something, because for years little is going on; my previous speaker Windbüchler-Souschill also referred to it. – This is quite clear because there is a principle of unanimity. Of course you can criticize that. Only: On the other hand, I must honestly say that it would not be right for a few large countries in the world to decide on us as small Austria or other countries. It has, as I have experienced, Papua New Guinea the same right to vote as China or India. In principle, I think it is right when states meet there in a similar way. It is clear that political processes are more laborious, such as climate protection – biodiversity has been achieved in a relatively short time – but it makes sense to do so. The success of the Millennium Goals is right. I hope that the 2030 Agenda, the Sustainable Development Goals, will also be crowned by success to combat hunger and poverty and other dangerous things in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22696	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22717	Madam President. – The Minister has taken us away. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of death penalty, I would like to mention here an international organization which has been used in the fight against the death penalty and which has always been very massive, namely the Council of Europe. In the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, the death penalty is no longer executed, even if it has not been abolished everywhere. And that's good. I would also like to mention a name in this context, or a member of the Council of Europe, who has actually earned a reward in this area. This is the Liechtensteiner Renate Wohlwenden, who not only wrote a report against the death penalty, but also was in countries such as the USA and Japan in order to point out this abuse accordingly. Now to the United Nations. – The fact that the universality of human rights in the United Nations is more than solid is that the members of the United Nations feel committed to these human rights is understood by themselves. That the UN is in times like those in which so many people are fleeing – we have heard time and again, 60 million people are on the run – is very necessary to take peace-making measures is of course. The decision taken by UN Resolution 1325, which also gives women a corresponding place in connection with peacemaking measures, is also an important contribution. It has already been mentioned that Vienna plays a major role. The fact that Vienna is the fourth United Nations headquarters in addition to New York, Geneva and Nairobi is also a very important contribution to the economic, economic prosperity within Austria and the reputation of Austria in the world. Syria, Iran has already been mentioned. As the last point, I would like to mention that this time there is the first opportunity – eight candidates have applied for the new UN Secretary-General/New UN Secretary-General – because there is a new procedure that will be more democratic than the original, according to which only the United Nations Security Council elects that a woman will finally be elected the UN Secretary-General for the first time. I hope that the second half of humanity will also be able to move once, not only at the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Lopatka: Tomorrow at the Court of Auditors!]] I hope you are so active here too, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, that we will help women to break through. [[Abg. Lopatka: I have little influence on the UN!]] This would be an important measure because women also have different access to the various important issues of our time, namely peace and human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22767	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22789	Madam President. Minister! The weight of Austria in terms of foreign policy or in the international concert naturally depends on us being a UN country, certainly. It is also related – I have already told you – that the one or other conference, which was crowned by success, has been held here in Vienna. But it also depends on the fact that international conferences are taking place in succession, and so it also depends on how we get them. It has always told me – because we are opposition, we hear these complaints – Austrian top officials who work for the UN or also for the EU, that Austria is very often underrepresented. As an example, I would like to see the Europe-Africa conference in Brussels. There, heads of government were danced, from Africa anyway, but also from Europe – and Austria was represented there with only one ambassador. There is also a risk of delay, I say now that in July – as mentioned previously in connection with Mongolia – in the Ulan Bator of the Asia-Europe Summit, which has been announced and confirmed that the German Chancellor is coming, that the Prime Minister is coming from England and France, and Austria has somehow indicated that this time it will be a bit more prominent, but has not yet made any actual nomination. It is a pity that not only these individual countries, where these conferences take place, but the whole regions take it very seriously and very, very closely, observe how we are happening there, and, if we deal with it so laxly, that is seen as a clear fractionation. That's why my appeal, Minister: You are the Foreign Minister – of course you can urge the Chancellor of the Federal Republic to work there! On the death penalty an important point has already been said a lot about it: From a humanitarian and humanistic point of view, it is embarrassing that around the world nearly 100 governments still consider the death penalty to be a proven means to guarantee order and justice in their states. Apart from the fact that it is highly questionable whether death by law actually deters potential perpetrators, executions of an enlightened society are unworthy. There is the trend towards the abolition of god praise worldwide, which is no longer reversible, yet the circle of those States that continue to carry out executions is alarmingly large, with the application of the death penalty in 2015 as recently published statistics indicate: The number of executions increased by 54 percent compared to the previous year. At least 1,634 people were executed worldwide. That was 573 more than 2014 and a record within the last 25 years. On the other hand, four countries have abolished the death penalty for all crimes, and that is now the biggest leap forward on the way to a world without death penalty. The way is long. To this day, 102 states have completely abolished the death penalty, six states are only looking for exceptional crimes such as war crimes, and 32 states have abolished executions in practice, but not in accordance with the law. It is all the more gratifying that all the political groups here in the House are offensively committed to abolishing the death penalty. However, opinions on how to achieve this differ. The NEOS proposal, which is being discussed today, is ambitious, but, you know, we have already said that in committee – it is not practical. We will not be able to agree to him because he is simply foreign to the world, not living. Austria cannot insist that the largest states in the UN be deprived of the right to vote, so we are ridiculous. That would be, as has been said, a nice proponent, honorable, but in practice simple and simply not feasible. We shall, of course, agree to the self-employed motion for a resolution on Austria's active participation in the global abolition of the death penalty, which my group has joined in the Committee's report. It essentially envisages moving forward the United Nations initiatives for the worldwide aggressment of the death penalty and for rethinking those countries that have not supported the resolution for a global moratorium of executions. We are aware of this, Of course, paper is patient – this is one of infinitely many resolutions – the path at which the death penalty is finally abolished may now be long and stingy, but a beginning is always set, and that is good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22849	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22870	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The United Nations may never have been as important as today. – Even if this sentence might be something at first glance – should it be said so? – melodramatically sounds, so he is so right with a look at the – if you can call it – dispute map. There may, with the exception of Australia, be no continent without war and crisis areas with all its effects. The United Nations, with its – I would almost say – so broad a portfolio is absolutely essential. For this reason, the four-party application is also made at the right time. It calls on the Federal Government to continue to actively support the work of the UN as a central element of the Austrian foreign, security and development policy. The head office of Vienna, which has already been entered under item 10 of the agenda, makes a significant contribution as one of the four headquarters. Of course, we are committed to maintaining the use of Austrian blue helmets in the service of world peacekeeping as well as nuclear and conventional disarmament. I would like to address two areas of activity of the UN, which also have to do with the seat of Vienna. Disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction as well as arms control are central efforts of international security policy. Protection and security of the Austrian citizen are the starting point of Austrian engagement. Austria is also leading the resolution to promote nuclear disarmament and is a global pioneer for multilateral nuclear disarmament initiatives. A special focus is also placed on the humanitarian consequences of the possible use of nuclear weapons. The third conference on this subject therefore took place in Vienna in December 2014. A second, particularly important topic in my view, is the field of sustainable development. With the SDGs, i.e. the Sustainable Development Goals, which were decided in New York in September 2015 and follow the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the United Nations has agreed on a kind of World Future Treaty. With 17 goals and 169 targets, very ambitious economic, social and environmental goals are combined, and they apply – and that is new – to all states. For the first time in history, not only politics, but also science, the economy and civil society have contributed to this. For a sustainable secure future of this only planet that we have, it needs a great common effort, and for that, ladies and gentlemen, the UN is essential!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22908	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22931	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thankfully, Mr Vavrik has already explained why most of the parties were opposed to Mr Vavrik's request. I might add another possibility of action against the death penalty, namely parliamentary diplomacy. I work in an international parliamentary organization, with the Parliamentarians for Global Action, which, as priorities, have human rights, the rule of law and, among other things, do something very concrete about the death penalty. For example, in 2014 and 2015, we worked with more than 100 parliamentarians, ensuring that we inform them and donate them almost with arguments that they can put in their parliaments against the death penalty. For example, we have contributed to the UN General Assembly, which is constantly voting on the question of a moratorium on the death penalty, to the adoption of Suriname's vote of censure, and to the abolition of the death penalty by national states, and to Uganda's opposition to renunciation. We have equipped very many Members with technical support, with legal know-how for the draft applications in their parliaments. For example, we have also contributed to the signing of the second Additional Protocol to the Civil and Civil Pact. And we support members of PGA with letters, analyses, preparatory documents in their work to abolish the death penalty. For 2016, we have undertaken to work specifically with the countries Ghana, Malaysia, Tanzania and Uganda. The latter is also a priority country of Austrian development cooperation. I think a parliamentary exchange on the death penalty with Uganda would offer itself as a project for us in Austria. If you are interested in working and becoming active in this organization, the Parliamentarians for Global Action, I would like to invite you to do so. Many of you have already signed a parliamentary petition against child marriage last year. Let me add another thought. I came back from the USA in the early days. Of course, since the weekend, the main focus of the media coverage has been the homophobic terrorist attacks in Orlando. However, what has hardly been discussed – yes, I have discussed it in the Open Society Foundations, but it has not been discussed in the media – was the question of what a lax arms law contributes to such acts. It's legal, of course, absolutely unpleasant now, what I say, but nevertheless, ethically: In reality, poor arms laws are more or less a state aid for death sentences that individuals make, without any judicial decisions, by going here and shooting people, whether because they are LGBT because they are Jews because they are black because they are students because they are children at the playground or because they are students or cinema visitors. On average, 100 US citizens own 88 firearms. This year is 165 days old, and in the USA there have been 176 mass shootings so far. I believe that we can make a huge contribution to a less violent to death by working on responsible arms laws both domestically and abroad. (The sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e22986	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We now come to the vote on item 13 on the resolution relating to the importance of the United Nations attached to the Committee's report 1164. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 154.) We shall therefore vote on item 14 on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1166 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1651/A(E). Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on Austria's active participation in the global abolition of the death penalty, annexed to the Committee's report 1166. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 155.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues and colleagues on Austria's increased commitment to the fight for the abolition of the death penalty. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[21:55:52]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 1721/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill, Dr Josef Cap, Dr Reinhold Lopatka, colleagues on strengthening the peace process in Ukraine (1165 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23082	That's what we're going to do in the 15th century. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23109	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are debating a motion for a resolution tabled by SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens under the last item on the agenda of today's Parliament's day with the aim of strengthening the peace process in Ukraine. Intensification, the content of the motion for a resolution is the starting point for Austria to have the OSCE Presidency in 2017 in the person of the Foreign Minister, and the Parliament calls on the Foreign Minister to support the Foreign Minister in promoting the peace process in Ukraine, to fully implement the essential points of the Minsk Agreement, to strengthen the OSCE's competences, to promote the idea of a common free trade area of the European Union with Russia and, of course, to insist that the bilateral agreements between the European Union and Russia be implemented on the basis of existing partnership and cooperation agreements. What is the situation? – The situation is certainly very, very unsatisfying. The conflict is still unsolved, unfortunately, we now have 10,000 dead, one and a half million people who have fled the region, the ceasefire is fragile, the political process within Ukraine – where it is about bringing about a new constitution so that elections can also be held in the affected regions that one can define autonomy in the affected regions – is in a standstill. Of course, there is a very high interest on the part of the Austrian Parliament that this peace process is beginning again. What are the main cornerstones so that he can get in the way? – I think it’s very important for Ukraine – and I was in the western Ukraine two, three years ago, in the region of Lemberg, Ivano-Frankiwsk, there was a very strong pro-European mood, but of course there is also a very strong pro-Russian current in Ukraine – a solution that can only be based on the fact that both currents are right. For Ukraine, both as and not as one or more of them must apply. The free trade area makes sense; Ukraine could have an important bridge function between Europe and Russia. The Minsk Agreement, the peace agreement, is of course fully implemented. The OSCE is already a very important task. The OSCE has lost its importance in recent years, but especially in the Ukraine conflict it has shown how important it is as a crisis fire brigade in the area of crisis management. The OSCE has a very important function, and strengthening competences here would be a very important step. Of course, it is also very important that, in my opinion, peace with Russia can only be with Russia and not against Russia. Austria is also interested in the sanctions in the agricultural sector or in tourism, that relations with Russia are again normalizing, that the best links with Russia are also there. But it's important: Peace can only be with Russia and never against Russia. Finally, I would like to say: In 2017, our Foreign Minister will be chairing the OSCE, and his title – I have been researching the Internet – will be: Chairman in Office. This is certainly a very responsible task, which is a diplomatic task in many areas very delicate. The preparations for this have already been fully implemented. I am convinced that, like many other tasks, our Foreign Minister will be mastering this task with Bravour. In any case, I wish him all the best for the 2017 presidency. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23160	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23182	I'm really lucky today: I can, in turn, agree with the previous speaker's words in general. I would just like to put to the debate this often recurring image of good and bad, so that Russia is in principle Evil is and Ukraine is basically good. It is important to make revision happen in recent months, which has not only happened in the implementation of the Minsk process, even in Ukraine, or what is now being revised there, namely as regards the conflict with weapons, as regards the positioning of the heavy weapons, as regards these many corruptions, withdrawals, the billions that come to the country and sifting and disappearing somewhere, where oligarchs still have a non-essential power. The criticism of Poroschenko – we have seen this in these Panama documents, in which it has also occurred – shows a picture that this good and evil does not fit. I am not saying the other way around now that only Ukraine is evil and only Mr Putin is good. We are all interested in the fact that there are comprehensive democratisation processes there, and that, of course, there is also a change in the political system. That's completely logical anyway. But it was just said: It has also been shown that this sanctions policy has not done anything in the final effect. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] I believe that it is necessary to try that this – and Germany seems to try it if one wants to believe these reports – is now corrected so that it comes to relaxation. I'd like to say: Now, if I look at this saber race in Eastern Europe, where NATO is marching, Russia is doing exercises, flying planes close to each other and crossing aircraft carriers, I think we can't be interested in an escalation at all. Finally, this also has an impact on Europe as a whole, far beyond what is now being criticized – as far as economic relations are concerned and the negative impact on growth prospects in Europe and, of course, also in Russia, this also has an impact on investment by European companies in Russia and vice versa, as far as trade relations are concerned – then it is slowly going into the threat of military. And that's something we can't even accept where you have to do everything. One has to go beyond the mere Sunday speech – peace, peace and peace at last, and at last there should be a rethinking of the previous instruments – and there must be real steps. We know that Austria is committed to the issue of Austria's efforts and that we want to do everything we can to continue along this path. I am very optimistic that this will work.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23233	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23254	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is true what Mr Cap said, Austria should already make an effort. – It is only the question of how far it can and will make efforts. One thing is ignored in this request, although Mr Cap mentioned it: That's the penalty problem. For Austria and the other European countries are not, of course, honest and neutral brokers or intermediaries in this matter. They are de facto parties to conflict because they are massively supporting the Ukraine conflict party with the resources of economic sanctions. If we are talking about broker services here, when we are talking about strengthening the OSCE, then we will have to get through to not always say: Yes, we must be solid at European level, and we must bear in mind everything that is decided there!, but we must say that if something absurd is decided there, if something is decided to disturb peace, if something is decided to weaken Austria's position and the position of Europe – and this is true of these sanctions –: Then we must have the courage and not raise our hands when we vote on it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We shall therefore vote in favour of this request because it says carefully between the lines: The one who advocates, as this request provides, that the international agreements such as the WTO and the Partnership and friendship agreements should be respected cannot, in fact, be in favour of extending the sanctions which violate all these agreements and the obligations they have. It is not foreseen in the WTO agreement that economic sanctions should be imposed because it requires a non-European power. That is not foreseen, let us say it that way. Whoever is in favour of this should also vote for the end of the sanctions. We don't need that. We simply do not have to vote in favour of extending sanctions. So it takes a little less courage than to vote against something. We do not have to vote in favour of extending them. I hope that the Foreign Minister, whom I very much appreciate and support in many things, will have the courage not only to take away what is now in the words, but also to implement what is between the lines, namely: an end to sanctions, a return to a neutral policy and thus a return to a role for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23312	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23333	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We know that Mr Cap and Mr Hübner find themselves quickly again in terms of sanctions. I'm not surprised. And I'm not surprised that you'd probably agree on the abolition of sanctions very quickly. But what surprised me a little, Mr. Cap, was that you're here and you think the sanctions seem to have brought nothing. I dare to doubt this, and I would not simply put it in the room as flat-rate as possible, because the sanctions are a means of peace, that no one knows how the escalation would have looked on the ground, there would have been no sanctions. [[Abg. Strache: A damage to our economy! That's what brought it!]] After the annexation of Crimea, nothing has changed at all in this situation. That means that Russia has to move just as much, but always in the triangle of the European Union with Russia and Ukraine. The intention of the application was clearly the OSCE Presidency in 2017, which is why we Greens also prepared it and then entered the discussions. I am pleased that we can make a common request in this regard. The month of May 2016 was one of the bloodiest in the eastern Ukraine, where many people died because of this armed bloody conflict. It is not enough to cry out only for peace, but it is indeed also necessary to put in place peace measures. This is also the big difference to the FPÖ, which only has in mind the Putin system of Russia and does not want to make peace for the whole region. That means: The implementation of the Minsk Agreement is quite clear. The dialogue between civil society and just promoting peace-making initiatives is important. Economic relations – yes, of course, but always with the question: What do the sanctions mean, and what is actually going on in this unstable situation? It is about maintaining sovereignty and security in Ukraine, and that is the concern of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23370	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23391	Madam President. I will make just a few comments about the unfortunate question of sanctions in the short time that remains to me and try to clean up with a few myths. First myth: The sanctions have not brought anything. So if you ask the Russians, they'll see it completely differently. They are very likely to suffer from the sanctions, and that is why, of course, Europe's gross domestic product is the tenfold of Russia, because Russia has the economic structure of a third world raw material exporting country, similar to Nigeria, and is far from a modern industrial country. In this situation, of course, Russia's economy suffers much more than ours. I do not want to disagree now that certain sectors, including the Austrian economy, suffer from the sanctions – we have mentioned it: agriculture, dairy products, pigmeat exports and tourism – but I believe that the long-term costs of allowing the foundations of the European peace order to be pushed aside will be infinitely higher than the short-term costs of applying sanctions. Second myth: The sanctions do not work. - That's wrong, too. I should like to mention the example of Iran. Interestingly, this is a case where the Russians participated in the sanctions, and this case has shown: The sanctions work, provided you stay closed and have a long breath. It is much faster to occupy a country, to annexed, to occupate like Crimea, that went within a few weeks. The non-military counter-option takes years, and that takes the long breath. After two years it is much too early to leave behind and send Putin against the completely wrong signal. That would take the only means out of our hands. One last point: Mr Cap, you have indicated that sanctions are a kind of preliminary step towards military action. – I don't think so, they're a substitute for it. I would like to take another example of Iran. Today, we are very happy that the sanctions have resulted in a diplomatic solution and that not Israel or the USA or Saudi Arabia or any other country have done a military first blow in order to eliminate Iran's nuclear capacity. And the same is true of the sanctions. I am deeply concerned that to the same extent as the sanctions are to be lifted, how the wind turns against sanctions, the countries that feel threatened, namely the Baltic countries, Poland, Romania, but also a country like Sweden, are increasingly focusing on the military map. In other words: It would be counterproductive to avoid sanctions. Iran has shown that that would certainly be true in the case of Putins. Therefore, I believe that it is essential to modernise the state structures in addition to helping Ukraine – all you have mentioned, Mr Cap – to help politically to help economically – and at the same time, this goes hand in hand – to keep the sanctions, as long as the Minsk Agreement is not implemented by Russia, and that means: Repeal of heavy weapons, stop military intervention in a neighbouring country. This is in Europe of the 21st century. ==References== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23445	Mrs Mag. Muttonen is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23467	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minsk Agreement is now 16 months old and the success, as we have heard, has grown. Another escalation has been prevented, but people are still dying. We are very far from a solution. Also, most of Minsk's agreements have not been implemented to date. So the situation is very fragile, the conflict can escalate at any time – very much to the detriment of people in Ukraine, but also of people across Europe. Not only is the situation in the East concerned, but it is also the situation in the rest of Ukraine, which does not progress with its urgently needed reforms in the economy and politics. It is therefore certainly right to push the Ukrainian government, the separatists and Russia, to finally move forward in the implementation of the agreement and thus to ensure more stability and security. But it would be wrong to reduce the conflict to Ukraine alone, behind the conflict in Eastern Ukraine is a much greater dispute, namely between Russian and Western security interests. We therefore also need a more intensive security dialogue between the USA, NATO, the EU and Russia. Both the OSCE and the EU can play an important role here. The OSCE has so far been able to prove in this conflict that it can act quickly and successfully within the limits of its mandate. The OSCE's observer mission makes an important contribution to halting the crisis because it is accepted by all the parties to the conflict and because it has been unanimously decided in the OSCE. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly offers a number of platforms where Ukrainian MEPs and the Russian Members can meet and communicate with each other in a solution-oriented manner. In other words, we must continue to strengthen and possibly expand the work of the OSCE in order to engage in a fundamental dialogue with all parties on the future of pan-European security. The EU can also make a contribution, as has been said, I am thinking, for example, of the common free trade zone, which was also recently remembered by the German Chancellor. That is to say, the old patterns of the Cold War will not bring us forward, we need ideas for a new common security policy. For this, Austria must work both in the EU and in the OSCE. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23512	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution on strengthening the peace process in Ukraine, annexed to the Committee's report 1165. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 156.) The agenda is exhausted. [[22:1633]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23555	We come to the vote on the request by Mr Scherak, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report on Mrs. Dr. Scherak's motion for a resolution (498/A) on a federal law on the General Civil Code is amended, a period of time until 28. ==References== Those who vote in favour of this deadline request, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[22:17:06]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-06-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00132_d8e23586	I announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications from 1731/A(E) to 1741/A. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 10:18 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
