ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4437	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government! I'll open the 146. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of the 144th and 145ths. Meeting of 21 March 1991 September 2016 are in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Bacher, Mag. Gisela Worm, El Habbassi, BA, Mag. Schrangl, Strache, Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, Julian Schmid, BAund Köchl. I welcome the national council presidents present at the gallery, except Dr. Andreas Khol, President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Margit Kraker, President of the Senior Council of Ingrid Korosec and President of the Chamber of Commerce Dr. Christoph Leitl. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4486	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is represented in the afternoon by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter. [[10:04:21]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4522	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4712	I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4733	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take at first reading the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act for the year 2017 and Appendices (1260 of the Supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4757	The debate on points 2 and 3, 5 to 7, 9 and 10 as well as 11 to 14 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda with this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4781	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as NEOS and STRONACH per 44 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 22 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:06:33]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2017, together with investments
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4825	This leads us to the 1st place. Agenda item. I give the floor to you, Minister of Finance, for this statement. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e4849	Dear Austrians! Madam President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear taxpayers! A few minutes ago, the Council of Ministers decided to allocate the budget to the House for 2017. Despite difficult conditions, this is a very balanced budget, and we have taken into account that we are both continuing the consolidation rate, which is necessary, as well as providing sufficient resources for offensive measures, for investment. That, I believe, is the important signal: that we are depositing this budget into an account, that is to say, the account of trust. Trust is known, ladies and gentlemen, the most important currency for a country, but of course also the most important currency for the finances of a country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We all know that words do not pay debts, but we will succeed in continuing this course, which we have taken, through action. And only this action will bring the results we need for the future. For the Minister of Finance, this means: to guard first, energetically and consistently about the careful, disciplined handling of each euro, second, determined to fight for the elimination of past flood damage, and thirdly to lay the financial foundation for the successful future of our country. Or popular: Get down with the debt, down with the expenses, but also down with the taxes! We have jointly defined this path in my first budget speech in the previous year, and we have taken this path and I will continue this way in a continuous manner. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For us, keeping a budget means primarily to our politicians: Keep word! Because the budget is not training this High House – you decide – but it is more than eight million Austrians. That is why the budget is not only a calculation, but also a future task. The effort of the level is great, but we have first successes to mention: The debt of the Republic is reduced thanks to the end point under this unmistakable chapter of Hypo Alpe-Adria. The expenditure of the federal government is reduced thanks to disciplined procedures and the legally agreed debt brake. The tax reform has been fully effective and additional labour costs have been reduced in three stages, and a reduction is planned next year. But something that has been criticized over and over again should now also turn out in the other direction, namely that we have worked up again in the rankings through these measures, which we have put forward with the budget of the previous year, and the successes resulting from them. I said last year – and I stick to it –: We must continue this path consistently in order to bring Austria to the top of what it belongs to. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the ranking of the World Economic Forum we have improved by four places, which is an essential step. Of course, we want this to continue, and we are working to ensure that it will. We have also improved in other areas, such as the innovation scoreboard of the EU Commission and other innovation rankings, but this, ladies and gentlemen, is convinced by this Federal Government, is only the beginning. We want to continue on this path to get to the top of it. Everyone knows where to go. The objective is a budget without new debt, a budget that produces surpluses and creates the scope we need for an active budget policy and for new investments. This is a way that we will walk together, without compromising what is constantly being blamed, namely to save the state. This balanced budget is an example of the success of this path. I am quite honest with you that I have come into a situation in this budget, which I am presenting to you today, which is all too much of a goal, but we have come to terms with circumstances that can only be influenced by us in part, in which we have in fact had to take measures towards integration and refugees. We have put in place measures, particularly in the area of security in our country. I believe that fellow citizens really value the fact that this beautiful country of Austria remains a safe country in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I spoke of trust at the beginning. Financial policy and budgetary policy are not just a question of figures and figures. You see here the numbering work, I suppose it has all read intensively since I have already heard the criticism about it. [[pointing to a crash of documents]] Otherwise, it's still time to hear. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: (in the free space of Abg. The stitch is still reading!]] – Some obviously still read because not yet here. [[Abg. Rossmann: Night shift!]] – Therefore, I believe that... [[Abg. Arbitrators: The first reading...! ... the place of entry! We'll read it later!]] – I know, Mr Klubobmann, of course! I did not refer to you either, but to those who have already spoken critically. The central feature of such a policy is, of course, the budget, and this budget is about three important features: It must be economical, it must be forward-looking and must keep it. These are the three guidelines for the Federal Budget 2017. Creating a budget that will shape the future is also a reduction of the burden from the past. I have inherited a lot of unpleasant things: from the high debt to the serious consequences that are directly related to them, namely the hypo-debakel, to the design failure that is critical. I believe that we must recognize that there is quite legitimate displeasure that people expect things, but that we have not yet delivered them, because also neglected actions trigger an avalanche of consequences. If we want to advance Austria, it is high time for courageous action. For this I have taken steps that have taken – important steps, noticeable steps. I also say here: We have not yet reached the goal, but we are already on a successful path. Success is not that the first step is particularly long, but success is that these steps are going in the right direction, and we have taken this direction. First and foremost, it concerns the confidence between the state and the citizens and the citizens. We have promised to implement a tax reform, they have implemented to stimulate consumption. The next step must be to discuss the abolition of cold progression, i.e. the sluggish tax increase, which I attach great importance to that, for all tax groups. General government social expenditure rose from around €55 billion in 2005 to around €79 billion in 2015, i.e. by 44.4 percent in ten years. This is due to the industriousness and tax morale of the Austrians! They allow for this social compensation despite the high tax rate in international comparison. Their willingness to show solidarity must therefore not be exaggerated either. Here again, it says: The right measure creates trust. No less important is the trust between the state and the economy. Only then, if these relations are untiring will we be able to see that the incentives we want to make towards investment are also implemented by the economy and jobs are created. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the economy, we have taken a first step in reducing the additional wage costs, but I expressly stress that this is only a first step towards remission. We must continue along this path. What the economy especially needs is planning security. We have to commit ourselves to some sins where we have replaced planning security with uncertainty. That is why I do not think any discussion that would continue to imperish the economy is appropriate, because then the investments we want will not take place. I have experienced this in the tax reform: There is much too much discussion about counter-financing and not about the impact. These counter-financings are extremely insecure, may be straining the investment climate and do not lead to us taking the path together with the economy, namely bringing Austria back to the top. The question of trust concerns the whole economy, and the economy also belongs to the banks. The banks, my very appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, are now the central bloodstream for the economy. The ratio to this financing option is therefore of particular importance for healthy economic development. That is why the first step in significantly reducing the bank's levy is an important step. The Austrian banks are thus regaining competitiveness and receiving back enough scope for action to provide the economy with the necessary funding for investment. Austria has come back to European normality, but I will be very careful to ensure that banks are actually granted loans and new innovative financing opportunities are created so that this blood circulation of the economy that I have quoted does not get started. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For the banks, this reduction of the levy is only a first step. They themselves are now called for further action and must reorganise, they must do their own homework so that profitability increases and the whole sector becomes more shock-resistant. Finally, in an internationally networked economy, it is also about trust between the international markets and our country. For this reputation and the position of Austria on the capital market, I have taken the necessary steps in the old load of the former Hypo Alpe-Adria. The HETA solution finally brings this difficult and painful chapter to a conclusion; a chapter – and I say that as it will sound now – which I owe to a Lord with whom I have only my second first name in common. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Hans Josef?]] With hard work it has succeeded: The topic of HETA is once and for all from the table. With the repurchasing offer now accepted, we have given an important sign for the capital market: Austria is a reliable partner. We've restored our reputation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] One thing was said to the professional twins: We have thereby removed massive and sustainable damage from Austria and we have normalized access to capital markets for banks, countries and communities as well as for many large companies, especially in Carinthia. We thus avoid complaints against the federal government, the country of Carinthia and the Heta, which had totalled €16 billion in dispute. The legal and advisory costs alone would have meant a high three-digit million and a severe impact on the capital market. Having turned away is responsible policy, as I understand it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Together with the general comparison with the Free State of Bavaria, a broad legal peace can therefore be concluded, and stability and reliability are made as such. Something like this with the Hypo Alpe-Adria, my much-honored Ladies and gentlemen, you must never happen again! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What's particularly important to me is: We have learned from it – a current item on the agenda, namely the submission of the report from the Committee of Inquiry, shows that there was a need for learning here – and we will act accordingly. Financial market supervision rules have been significantly tightened. The European Banking Union creates a single regulatory framework. We are already working on a reform of the supervision of the financial market in order to avoid in the future those errors which the Committee of Inquiry's report today shows. – I would like to point out: There must be major reforms on these issues. In the ongoing financial compensatory negotiations, we plan to harmonise the limits of liability of the countries and to implement a uniform speculation ban. We are in intensive discussion, and there are positive signals from the countries. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This means that the right steps are taken here as well. First steps are important, but even more important it is not to stop, but to continue in the right direction. And I say it again: We need a joint commitment that we try not to make new debts in order to shape the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is still a further way to a budget, which comes with its revenue, to a budget that does not impose new debts on its citizens, to a household that produces surpluses in good times to be prepared for weaker periods. – This is a realistic goal that I absolutely want to achieve. We are on a good way to go, but of course we also have to work intensively where it is ill, including on our expenditure structure. In order not to have to make investments in the past in the future, but to be able to make them in the future, this fiscal consolidation is of particular importance. All international organisations – OECD, International Monetary Fund, European Commission – as well as the national institutions such as WIFO, and above all the IHS and the Court of Auditors, welcome these necessary reforms in the areas of pensions, health, education and efficiency of administration. In this respect, too, the Federal Government has taken appropriate steps in the working groups to enable us to actually follow this path. To deal carefully with each euro tax means to have more money left for future investment. I would therefore like to look at one area after another in a comprehensive investigation, just as it happens naturally in each company. These are facts and not populist statements that also prevent many stakeholders from improving the quality of public expenditure and turning to the right screws. The instrument of so-called spending reviews, i.e. an expenditure analysis that checks the effectiveness and necessity of each expenditure, has already proved itself internationally, and what works is to be taken up. To introduce all these expenditure analyses as standard will be a challenge. The Federal Government acknowledges this. Both the tasks and the expenditure of each sector should be examined on the following criteria: Are they contemporary? Are they necessary? Are you bringing the desired results? Where are there useful approaches to improvements? Where best to perform tasks? – The recommendations resulting from this will then have to be incorporated into the budget process. Two pilot projects are already under way in my house. Of course, I demand that everyone – not only at federal level, but also at the level of the countries and communities – follow this example. This instrument will significantly increase the financial scope without the call for new money being made at all times. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is easier to say: I have a problem, give me more money! – But we all know that this is not the solution to the problem, but a reflex. But this is not a policy, because money alone solves, as we all know, structural problems are not, and expensive is not always good. All the politicians responsible are therefore invited to check again and again whether they are still doing what is right and necessary in their areas, or whether they are not sometimes taking outdated measures that are no longer necessary but nevertheless cost a lot of money. That means shaping, that means acting responsibly and that means doing it with care. In this way we can put our budget in order, so we can make meaningful savings, so we can take the next important steps towards a modern Austria. It doesn't need a big word, it's made too many anyway, and Shakespeare already knew: ‘Words do not pay any debt’. Forget You don't: Our politicians are accused of making the debt, but the taxpayers have to repay it. And as we know from the past, today's debt is tomorrow's taxes and taxes. I have announced – and I mean it very seriously – with regard to the projects to be implemented: We must come to implementation from the announcer! We need decisive steps forward. We need concrete improvements, and we need courage, and ‘must’, that stands for M like making, U like implementing and T like doing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our careful budget policy, which promotes growth and keeps the budget in a sustainable order, is particularly effective in the crisis situations that have been breaking into us continuously since 2008. After the banking and debt crisis with its long-term outflows, the geopolitical challenges came from the Ukraine crisis, the Russian sanctions to mass migration and, more recently, to Brexit. But here, too, it is quite simple – the same trivial sentence applies in budgetary policy: No crisis without a chance. Even if the consequences of Brexit are not yet foreseeable, we must take every opportunity to convince the country's location advantages of moving out of the UK, or of voluntary institutions and corporations. Foreign Minister Kurz and I have therefore set up initiatives together, and we see great opportunities here to successfully position Austria as a location. However, Britain's withdrawal may also have a medium-term impact on the EU's budget and its Member States, because we are losing a net payer. And in the event that this gap cannot be filled up, this may have an impact on the Structural Funds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I am not prepared, ladies and gentlemen, to fill this gap of additional Austrian taxpayers, and the European Commission must stop! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So much for all of us and me in particular Europe: I am the Finance Minister of Austria and will represent the same as here in Brussels. Austria will not pay the token for the raisin picking of other countries. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ.]] And I expect us to represent this attitude together as the Federal Government. I assume there is consensus on this. What I'm back with once again on the question of trust: We are proud of what respect investors all over the world have for. Austria still has top-bondity with a stable outlook. However, I see the obligation to make every effort to win the Triple A, because the second best rating is good, but the goal must be the best rating. This is achieved by continuing the consolidation path, further reducing debt and implementing the long-term overdue reforms. Our efforts to date in terms of a caring and disciplined budget are rewarded. At the same time, however, all these institutions also point out that they expect Austria to take a course and to undertake the necessary reforms. – Let us not lose this confidence, ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the figures of the budget: In fact, we have planned so carefully that the structural zero deficit can also be achieved in 2017. The key figures are that with revenues of € 73.16 billion and expenditure of € 77.46 billion, the key figures for this budget are fixed. For the third time, we have achieved a structural zero deficit. Positively, it has succeeded in reducing re-indebtedness by a third compared with 2016. The structural deficit of 0.5 percent is not ambitious enough for me personally, but it has simply given me no opportunity to bring down this zero deficit in the structural area even further. I have pointed out the special effects, and these, of course, burden our budgetary responsibilities to the appropriate extent. But we should not lose sight of a real black zero as a goal! In any case, I have this goal. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Maastricht deficit is good 1.2 percent, and our debt ratio, which is too high in itself, largely due to the problems in the banking sector, continues its continuing downward trend. In 2017, we will arrive at 80.1 percent. Even if there is nothing to do with this quota, it is 2.3 percentage points lower than this year. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2011, this Austrian Parliament, rightly speaking, decided on a debt brake with the aim of limiting structural deficits and thus indebtedness of the government budget. – From next year or the financial year to be discussed here, the structural deficit is expected to be only 0.35%. This objective has been missed with the budget presented. We now have to take the following measures by law: It is necessary to book this amount on a corrective account. In the following years, this gap has to be further closed, and this close-up means that in the following years we have to deal with lower budget deficits. First measures are already in place in the current budget. And the law therefore provides for further measures to be installed in order to put this correction account back on zero. We are therefore required to respond accordingly already in the Federal Financial Framework, which we will lead to the House in spring. The budget for the next year is planned for crisis. We've done our homework. The main key figures show that our household is developing in the broad direction. The budgeted disbursements are €827 million below those of 2016 and clearly below our spring planning. That's not a call to turn back, on the contrary! Now it is time to take the next steps that lead us to the black zero and thus also to black numbers. As Minister of Finance, I not only insist on this because I mean it, but, of course, because it is my obligation as Minister of Finance to ensure that this budget rate continues. And it is all the more important that we keep course as we experience a discussion about paradise on pump in parts of Europe. Wanting to achieve prosperity over new debts is the wrong way! For this we have a sufficient number of examples from the past and, above all, unfortunately also from the present. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Political responsibility – in which the Federal Government agrees – is not only enough until the next election day, but one must also bear due responsibility to the next generation. I would therefore like to address at least major structural problems before I go into individual departments, which restrict our scope for action, our design possibilities and our future investments. We have structural problems, among other things, in a position that is sometimes forgotten again and again. We have entered into excessive commitments in recent years and decades, and these commitments are now taxing the financial year in a mature manner. Although these follow-up costs are not due directly in the next financial year, they must be paid later and burden future budgets and thus future generations. Consider the volume of commitments entered into: They amount to a total of € 140 billion, these are two annual budgets! . We have entered into commitments for important programmes, and this should not be criticized, it should be presented only where the problems lie. We have entered into contractual commitments for multi-annual support programmes, for multi-annual service agreements, for contractual obligations or obligations in the field of infrastructure investment. Just so it's clear in advance: I am in no way opposed to such infrastructure investments. The only thing we should consider is whether, in the future, we are entering into commitments to this extent that will burden our successors and thus limit their scope. They all know – and this is discussed more often in committees of this House – that one of our major load problems, in which we have taken over appropriate pre-loads, is about €42 billion from the ÖBB infrastructure. Mrs Moser has repeatedly asked how these annuities are being used in the end, and I say to you: The most part – you always make mistakes – of investments makes sense to the site. But I say again: We also need to think about how we continue to deal with it in order to get rid of these burdens. If you look at the loads from the infrastructure – these are in total higher than our entire educational budget – we have to ask ourselves: Have we invested in the right measures? I think we are all required to think about how to deal with these problems for the future – not just in the sense of the past. This aspect of long-term commitments means for us: Let us be more critical in the future, let us be more careful, and let us not take too many freedom of choice for subsequent generations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this way, we would prevent the situation from setting its own priorities in budgetary terms. I do not think that it would be fair to them towards the next generations! My principle is therefore: People's priorities are also our priorities, and with all the needs, we are investing specifically in the future with this 2017 budget. Our top principle is: The state saves itself. Investments will be made where investment will spread the country and benefit all citizens. But let us also give people the opportunity to become active in their own responsibilities without bureaucratic obstacles, and above all help those who need our support! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my thanks to the members of the Federal Government for the constructive and fair negotiations on the budget and for all the staff in the departments who have made the technical preparations. Special thanks to the staff of the Ministry of Finance, who have the greatest burden in preparing the budget. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to give you a brief overview of the resorts. I have summarized the individual departments as they appear from the interactions. We face special challenges in the area of security and national defence, foreign policy and integration. One of the great fears of our day is the fear of being no longer safe in our own country. That is why we invest in internal as well as external security. In order to meet the current challenges and take their dissatisfaction as far as possible, this is imperative. We therefore raise the funds for the interior resort by 440 million to €3.47 billion. In this context, it is about maintaining the high level of public peace and order. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much. I would like to express my special thanks to the Austrian police officers at this point. They have made a significant contribution to the escalation-free management of migration flows through their prudent action. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Inside and outside security go hand in hand. We therefore take into account the changes in security challenges, including our state sovereignty. In addition, € 896 million will be available for national defence by 2020. Next year, the resort has a total of €2.32 billion. Austria remains a safe country with these investments. To cope with the refugee crisis, we will contribute €83 million to an adequate assistance and support service. With the increased resources, we also ensure direct assistance to the Austrian population in the event of disaster and the protection of our country's critical infrastructure. The 2017 budget also allows our army to continue to play its internationally high role in peacekeeping and humanitarian aid operations. The budget will put in place necessary savings measures, but it will be invested where it is urgently needed. Today, much more than ever before, the security of the foreign, security and European interests of Austria and an efficient integration policy are urgently needed. It is in our own interest to provide for this. In the sense of an hour's commandment, we have increased the means of development cooperation. We can raise them by 17.1 million to € 92.5 million in 2017. In addition, the foreign disaster fund, which we have already increased from 5 million to 20 million in 2016, continues to make these 20 million available. Budgetary resources will also be increased for contributions to international organisations. Compared with this year, they will be increased by around 39 million to 104.1 million euros. This is what we are doing to support international efforts for peacekeeping measures, human rights and on-the-spot economic and social progress, in the regions concerned. With the beginning of the 2015 wave of refugees, we have launched an integration offensive, which of course also finds its rainfall in the budget. A total of €250 million has been committed for this purpose. These funds are primarily used in German and value courses. These resources are used properly in this way because learning the German language is the basis for a smooth cooperation and enables a self-determined and active life as well as self-retaining. In the chapter on work and social affairs, we have a lot of proud results to mention. What worries us and will continue to worry is the labour market. Every year we pump more resources in this area, and yet we have the highest unemployment since 1950. We have this in times of record employment and a high number of unoccupied – or should I say: not more beggar? - Jobs. The area of work is therefore a total of €8.6 billion for 2017. This is an increase of € 543.2 million compared to the current budget year. For particularly difficult groups that we have to serve – such as older workers, long-term unemployed, refugees or eligible beneficiaries – € 350 million will be used. Many of you will have the impression that we are moving in a time loop in which the topic comes again and again, so to speak, in a new edition of the year. I am of course disturbed by falling down in the international and European ranking – thank God we are on our way up! . but the fact that we are managing more and more unemployed at an ever higher price is still much more worrying, not only for Parliament, not only for the budget, but for everyone concerned and for the economy. I have therefore agreed with Mr Stöger that, as I have announced on the issue of expenditure analysis, we are carrying out a very intensive analysis of the measures taken in the labour market, review their effects and develop new measures to combat unemployment. Here, too, the budget sets positive impulses. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] At the beginning I also spoke about the reforms requested by international and national experts. The pension sector, of course, continues to worry about us. With the budget we are presenting today, every fourth euro is already spent on pensions, and the trend is rising. Every seven euros of the budget goes to statutory pension insurance. In 2017, the €10.68 billion was the sole grant for pension insurance. Although the decline is around €90 million compared to the previous year – this is positive – the government grant will continue to rise and will be €13.3 billion in 2020, which is €3.1 billion more than the value from 2015 – €3 billion more! Therefore, as I said earlier, these slight improvements are only the first step in the right direction. The conclusion that we have no need for improvement cannot be derived from it. Yes, we are slowly approaching the actual retirement age that we already had in 1972, but not yet the legal one. We are also approaching a time when less and less young people in working life are getting more and more and more healthy and durable pensioners are thanks to God. If people were on average eight years in retirement in 1971, this period was already 15 years in 1991 and 20 years later, 2011, even 22 years. If you look 20 years forward, we will arrive at 27, 28 years. The length of residence in the pension will continue to increase with virtually equal retirement age and will maintain the pressure of reform, and we will have to consider further measures. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] Important topics – I have already mentioned it – are education, science and research. We therefore have a duty to take further steps because the entire educational budget of the federal government is € 8.65 billion smaller than the pension grant I have just quoted. Some may not worry, but I think we must invest in the future of this country – and the future is our children and thus the education system. Every ninth euro, roughly speaking, we invest in the school future of our children in 2017. These figures will also improve, as you know, most of the bank's discount payments will also flow in the area of school full-day care. However, we also need a great deal of reform here, which seems to go far beyond the current educational reform. Experts tell me that of every euro we put into education, only 50 cents arrive in the classroom. Many say you don't know why. I think we should analyze this in depth. For example, the OECD study clearly shows where action should be taken, and this points to the direction we will have to take. Austria has an above average cost per student, where we are between 25 and 50 percent above the EU average, with a very low student-teacher-relation. While 12 students come to a teacher in Austria, there are 14 in the EU section and 15 in the OECD section. This means that we have potential for an increase in the efficiency of the education system and should address it actively and quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – Whether to the maximum number of students or to other measures: The dialogue with the Minister of Education will continue accordingly. A substantial increase is experienced in the 2017 budget, both in the field of universities with € 210 million and in basic research, which receives € 100 million of additional resources, in order to mention only two improvements in the science and research budget. The total budget for science and research 2017 will amount to € 4.3 billion. We can say proudly: We can keep the research rate constant above the 3 percent already reached. This area in particular shows that investment is necessary for us to be able to carry out further investments. Innovations are not only happening in the academic world. € 530 million from the government budget will be invested in the so-called applied research funding. We are continuing to expand the Internet through the broadband initiative and will invest an additional €110 million from the overall volume this year. If we assume that something like a digitalized world will come about, then this is an investment that we urgently need in preparation for this world. Interestingly, I have recently read that some European governments would neglect their investments in infrastructure, but Austria cannot be meant to do so because infrastructure investments alone are rising by around €800 million by next year, and public investment is stable at 3 percent. [[Call the Greens: You have to tell me that first!]] In addition, I should like to point out that this Federal Government has created a large start-up initiative: a support model for wage-additional reduction or non-tariff additional costs of €100 million as well as a risk capital premium for investors of 45 million. Before that, the venture capital market was already equipped with €200 million of public risk capital for young and innovative entrepreneurs. This is a story that can be described as a success story. Per 1 € Tax money is generated up to 3 € risk capital. We have thus been able to eliminate one of the major weaknesses, namely the provision of capital for start-ups in Austria, which will affect our job supply in the medium term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We thus strengthen the courage to entrepreneurship. Because we all know one thing here: Policy does not create additional jobs, it does businessmen in that country. We as politicians have the framework to create. [[Call to the Greens: Genau!]] This start-up package indicates what direction it needs to go, and we will continue to develop it. Of course, the success of a location has many fathers. The non-essential factors in a country include the legal system, the question of the independence of justice and its reliability. Justice will therefore be paid this year with a budget of €1.4 billion. Another outstanding asset of our site is the quality of life, which is often seen as an Austrian speciality. The area of agriculture is worth €2.1 billion in 2017 and the environment is worth more than half a billion euros. Especially in the current situation where farmers are taking on income losses for the fifth time in a row, it is important to support them. The high quality of life that our farmers secure us, and their crucial role in the care of our landscape, must be worth it to us. After all, every fifth job in the remote and downstream area is dependent on a farm. Austria must also not leave a cent available for agriculture in Brussels. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, climate protection, ladies and gentlemen, is also a particular challenge for Austria. In the sense of the historical world climate agreement, we will have to take precautions. The aim is to take this into account when drawing up the next federal financial framework as soon as Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter has announced an integrated climate strategy. Another area that is always valuable to this location – and it is particularly important to note this abroad – is the art and cultural landscape. We estimate half a billion euros in this area for the coming years. We have an excellent health system. There is also a need for reform in this area, but it is far from the influence of the Federal Ministry. Health is taught together with women with € 1.06 billion. € 6.9 billion will be available to the Ministry of Family Affairs next year. Austria is and remains one of the most family-friendly countries in Europe. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we need a clear line. If I wish for something as Minister of Finance, then a common guiding principle, a guiding principle that we jointly represent – not only the Federal Government, but all –: We'll get out without any new debts. Not everything else needs to be done, but much better. It is enough to act on the idea that everything can and must become more transparent, simpler and task-oriented. It is enough, ladies and gentlemen, for us to focus on a private household. When someone builds a house, he wants to repay his debts as soon as possible, for he wants to inherit his children's home and not the debts. [[Ruf:He would have to build a lock at the door]] We must finally implement the already known concepts, generate courage and confidence for the next generations and secure the future. We need rapid adjustments and changes to do so. Of course, I urge everyone – including the opposition – to participate in these changes and not to block them. And we need, and I am in favour of this – also in the light of the financial settlement negotiations – a task and state reform that avoids double-tracks and allows for a slimmer and more efficient action; a reform that is not a heated debate about central or federal, but rather that assigns the tasks where they are done most efficiently and most civilianally. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It should only count what is good for the location and its citizens, and not what is good for any client policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Thank you for the applause. You understood. [[Abg. Kogler: What remains of the ÖVP if there is no client policy?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to SPÖ and Greens.]] The New Deal, which Federal Chancellor Kern has announced, is fully supported by me, but – let me say the sentence to the end – the mechanism of the New Deal cannot be operated with the old cow trade. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore sufficient to say goodbye to retired paths. I expressly draw attention to the fact that the question of the New Deal also has the common understanding of this federal government and that we are all aware that we need to change in a political style in order to get to the results that are important for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the Greens.]] Recipes of the past that are no longer in the 21st century. ==References====External links== In many areas of the state, I feel that we have to arrive in the present, where people have already arrived and rightly criticize politics for their non-trafficking. In many words, we can talk about a great throw of reform. But this does not overcome the standstill by any means. As a politician, we have the obligation to provide for necessary changes, but not by always announcing huge reforms, but by choosing a better way, namely to take logical steps together in order to reach the goal. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I practice this mode of action in budgetary policy. There are quite a lot of holes in our state structure, in which money infects, not because of evil will or lack of knowledge, not from slumbering, but often simply from habit and non-intellectual questions of apparent facts. Making these holes fixed is also a command of sparingness. Then we will be able to offer our children a lot, even in times of scarceer means. I say quite frankly to you: Sacrifice is still the best source of revenue for the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, we must also focus on the examples we call Best Practice, which we find in other countries, not only those that fit us into the picture, but perhaps also those who are critical of some course. It's just that we guarantee the best for people in our country. Instead of big reforms, a new and different thinking would help. Away from the old-fashioned trample paths, to new, fresh thinking approaches! That's what we understand together on New Deal. But there are two things that we certainly do not need – and this is also supported by the population surveys –: We don't need new taxes and no new debts. George Washington said: Making new debts is not the fine way to balance the old debts. Interestingly, however, we have such a discussion and debate. These discussions will have to continue, but what we want is to invest where we are bringing the country forward, and the money will have to be available for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In every normal household, it is so that you build a upholstery to be able to invest. I believe that we too are invited to create upholstery in order to be able to invest in the future that is so important to our country. That means shaping the future! It's different, too. We just have to want it and do it. First, we need to act more sustainable, forward-looking and targeted. We need greater self responsibility for those who are able to do so. Performance needs to be done again, and not something you get. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us critically ask the question: What tasks is the State supposed to perform? Here we must focus on tasks concerning those people who need our support. I believe that this is a common goal and should not be questioned at all. If we carry out the review of historically grown processes in the state that I have announced, if we succeed in creating unnecessary bureaucracy from the neck – a working group is working on it and will present it over the next month – when we talk about the accuracy of the social state – and we want them instead of the principle of casting canning – then if we promote our own initiatives, we get to the top of where, as I have said, we must come as I said. If we do, we can save the state budget in a healthy way and at the same time invest specifically. [[Abg. Lugar: When are you coming to the budget? Where are the measures?]] We've made a difficult way. In this way, we must keep going in order to achieve success. Together with the Federal Government, my plan for Austria next year is to develop a programme that stimulates and promotes private investment. I also say: Get away with the cold progression! I want to show the cold progression the cold shoulder! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let us also, ladies and gentlemen, make the debt brake the engine of a modern state! Let us take advantage of the task and expenditure analysis I have addressed as a tool for an efficient Austria! Dear Austrians, your tax benefits are an advance of trust for us – trust in a country that works not only today but also tomorrow. Then: A budget is not a self-esteem of the Minister of Finance. A budget is the base, the ground on which we sow so that we can harvest. So let's think about it! Let's free ourselves from rigid, interest-controlled thinking patterns and let's be open to new things! Let's do the best for Austria, the best for our children and grandchildren! Let's do this, which Austria has already proved in the past, that it can do well: Let's build a better future! Let's get good ideas to the performance and bury the old brake shoes! Much is still to be done – I am ready to do so. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5260	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement on the Federal Finance Act for 2017. Before entering the debate on the next two items on the agenda, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the members of the Committee of Inquiry for 20 months and almost 700 hours. In these months, the Committee of Inquiry has shown that it has been borne by the sincere desire of all political groups to define the responsibility of Causa Hypo, and we have succeeded in creating a good basis for the future with a new and better instrument of parliamentary control. I greet Dr. Walter Pilgermair at the Galerie Procurator, I welcome the Deputy Procurator Mag. Walter Hellmich, I welcome Mr. Dr. Bruno Binder and Deputy Procurator Dr. Klaus Hoffmann, who will pursue this debate. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you and all the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate for their valuable work. Thank you very much. [[General condolences.]] [[11:02:31]] 2. Point Report of the Hypo-Research Committee in accordance with § 51 VO-UA used to investigate the political responsibility for the processes surrounding the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria (1/US) (1291 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2015/5 (III-157/1272 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5309	We come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. According to § 53 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Investigation Committees I expressly propose the termination of the Hypo-Research Committee (1/US) by Wednesday, 12. October 2016, 11.04 a.m., fixed. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is the first person to speak in the debate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5350	Madam President, thanks also for your work as chairman of this committee, it was not easy! It was also not to be expected that all political groups would agree on a report, so I will focus on the report and the conclusions, the findings and results of the Green Group – you will not be surprised. [[a copy of this report on the speaker's desk]] First of all, however, on the fundamental problem: The Examining Committee has already paid off – I am going to explain why investigations are in principle important, especially since in such a debacle – it was inevitable because we – unfortunately the Greens have kept it right – have to do with a total damage to taxpayers, depending on the bill, of up to €10 billion. If you add to the damage for Carinthia, the damage to the Bavarian taxpayers – which is also close to us – the public hand is quite a damage of €15 billion. For the Austrian taxpayer, I fear – and unfortunately we have still been right – that more than €10 billion will remain, probably €11 or €12 billion, and this may even be worse. That is why it was inevitable to start this committee. It is, of course, one of the most essential parliamentary rights, and I even believe that I have a duty to carry out investigations and control the government. I am expressly speaking here, even though private-sector crime cases are very often mentioned, of the control of the public institutions that are there: Governments, state governments, federal governments, supervisory authorities and civil servants. That's the primary thing, and that's what we did. Of course, you also need to look at banks and hypos to know how the supervision failed – and it has completely failed, almost all the time and on all lines and thus also politics, not only in Carinthia. That's what we can expect, so we can stop. That is why I think it is ultimately a contribution to economic reason and to social justice if one makes such investigations because they benefit from a wide variety of benefits, at least towards future savings; therefore, as I said, economic reason and social justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Indeed, market economy works only if stakeholders comply with certain rules when proper rules are given. Otherwise, we'll end up somewhere. In the case of the hypo, however, it was so; the damage has already been named. It is therefore a question of justice because, if such committees are properly managed, we can also, of course, contribute to the recovery of money once again, after all those responsible for holding the money together have failed before. However, they have not even recovered it properly, and we will go into it immediately. [[towards Federal Minister Schelling]] – That is why, as I said, it is reasonable and just. What benefits do such studies have in principle? I believe that most of the political groups agree – as I see Mrs Tamandel in particular, I do not want to say that – that there has been a number of similarities in the analysis and, fortunately, at least half of the conclusions and recommendations that we are going to hear about today. I therefore come to see the benefits of such investigations. This is underestimated. The former, more or less unloved, just-to-do banking investigation committee has also led to substantial legislative changes here in the house, but also to a certain cultural change; unfortunately, for the hypo too late, because – and I have to say that – the main damage has now occurred until 2007/2008, one does not pass by in the finding. This benefit exists – in order to sum up these four, five important reasons – in the possibility of making at least radical changes, on the one hand at the legal level, on the other hand also at the executive level and at the classical supervisory level, without having to change a law at all times. We'll hear it. Another benefit, of course, is that such committees of inquiry develop a certain general prevention. Even though some may not have discovered everything they expected in the committee, it is clear that no one, almost nobody likes to get there, does not even know that no one likes to study files where there may be what has really happened. Unfortunately, we didn't get everyone – but that's another topic, I leave it away today – but it was enough to work out a very strict result. But that doesn't like anyone and thus has a general preventive effect. Imagine that we would have used this scandal and not a committee of inquiry! – So only the fact that there is him has already fired this general prevention. As important are the other reconnaissing reports, such as the Court of Auditors' report, which is now being negotiated under one. Madam President, Kraker is here – I congratulate you on your work! We commissioned the Court of Auditors, and the cooperation was perfect. It was a commission of this house, presented in my name. We also agree with the Commission's report by Dr. Griss on a wide range of routes – we will work it out; we do not agree everywhere – but even if it is not so, I must pay tribute. I am not prepared to apologise for the fact that I have misestimated Mrs Griss's Commission work in advance. It must be possible. I think this makes sense and agrees with it over long distances. However, we have used a completely different method of working. By the way, this is also beneficial, because with us the testimony and all the evidence are legible; I believe that only in our report that I have brought with me in about a thousand footnotes. There's nothing holladrio, just funny party policy, no, that was real investigation. In any case, this can be said for most groups; I am doing this for the unscrupulous, of course, according to the best of knowledge and conscience. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The next benefit of these investigations – and now it's getting juicy and even more interesting – has been related to the fact that justice has finally got its legs. What was until 2011, 2012, although the scandal has been everywhere for many years? – Nothing has happened, nothing! On the contrary! Let us remember – even though this is not the main damage at this time – that: Of course, the corrupt system has been seen in Carinthia in the case of the fact that one has still been cut in these various hypo-sales for illegal party financing. This is not a matter of principle, but what has the judicial system done in spite of the clear argument and in spite of advertisements? Twice she's taken the case. Only the third time we've gotten over the corruption prosecutor's office has gone through. But that was a lot later. Previously, justice was completely different, almost lame, paralysed. That will also be the main result of the NEOS report, I think. I support that at this point, but I believe that much has already gotten better. That's what you have to say: In many areas that are criticized by the year 2010, a lot has already improved. In the case of justice, it was so – and I am referring to these investigations by the Court of Auditors, the Griss Commission, but also to the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry – that from 2013/14, when it was seen that this committee will become inevitable – you could have put your mind on it, even without minority law, we would have decided it sometime, we had some – something that happened before, namely: The justice wakes up, she suddenly gets feet and does something! I claim, without all these investigations, but due to the work of the opposition – and an element of it, an important one, this Committee of Inquiry – this would never have happened. You can understand this statistically. Look at what happened by 2012, 2013 at all indictments! You'll find a lot of white spots. But from 2013, 2014, 2015 it started, although previously the CSI Hypo, which was used – strange name, was like that – has sent out almost 100 in number, persistently. We worked this out exactly. They have even been blocked – that is at all the best – up to the government. But then, as it was clear, there are more and more investigations, there will be transparency, even the lame justice legs. But now I don't want to blame any more, I'm going to put on the NEOS, but I'm just saying: This is a benefit of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is probably no one who, before he started to work, has brought so much, because if the complaints are duly filed – unfortunately not still the case, but they are getting better and better – one can of course also hope that either of the accused or interested parties will return money or that one can complain much more civilly on compensation. The end of the flag rod has not yet been reached. In the end, we will hear that it is still useful and rewarding to look in the interest of the citizens and taxpayers, how this goes on, because it is still about a few billion: Are they coming back or not? So the work is not even over, but these investigations provide the basis for that. Another benefit, of course, is that – I have just tried to explain – that these investigations support the line – not everything has come out of what would have been possible – from these so-called creditors and investors, there or there even speculators to recover money. That's not to be underestimated. I'm just saying – but it's difficult to classify the mathematical –: You will now receive a quota of 90 to 95 percent, and if the government – and I am talking about the Federal Government – would not have fallen back again, you could have gotten out much more! I claim that 75 to 80 percent would have been loose in the end, just not to throw away the nerves. Even though the gentlemen and ladies creditors, the fund managers, the Deutsche Bank and anyone, some Austrian insurance companies – my goodness! – I would have looked at what is happening. But unfortunately, once again the courage did not reach – even that of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I'll tell you one thing: The difference here, between 75 and 95 percent, is more than €2 billion you could have recovered. All the investigations have given every indication that these believers were not worthy of protection with God. It was already clear that 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, in these years, when these bonds were drawn, about which they were still going, in Carinthia, did not operate a good regional bank, but rather a soccer business with Mafia shops. I say this in full consciousness, and we have also proved it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is still a difference in how to face these parties if that is the case. If that is the case, then every economic reason ceases! They first cash the interest, under the battle call, that they have to take a risk, but if the risk occurs, then the taxpayer pays, just because liabilities that were always only air liability, recognizable air liability, always! The creditors have responded to this – and the Federal Government has then decided to fall over with caution. The investigations themselves would have given rise to a more courageous appearance. That's a shame. But anyway, we still save a few hundred million euros, better than nothing! We heard it from the budget speech earlier; the sounds of Mr Finanzminister almost as shaky as with Schäuble. Since I'm playing on the Swabian housewife, it's already gone by €3, there's already a smallest measure very important. So despite the failure of the Federal Government, we have still managed to reorganize a few hundred million. After all, this is a small success – a bigger one would have been possible! But this is not the committee. Now to the Information from the Green Group: Yes – but we already knew that before – the origin of the crime, I would almost say that the financial crime lies in Carinthia, but what we did not know is that it was not just there, or that many did not want it to be true; we would have known it already. Much more parties – if you want to see them politically – were already found to be, much more organs, especially the federal institutions, involved in the failure chain, and away from the beginning of the investigation period. We will still be able to hear or at least read the role of the central bank and the financial market supervision that was set up at the time, because the whole time is now too short, not for nothing the thing has 330 pages. I recommend to all spectators the reading of the report, he has been online at the hour, also on the Greens' homepage. Everyone has failed, even federal organs, and therefore – even if it might otherwise fit in with me politically – you can not only claim that it was the blues in Carinthia. That's wrong! Of course, we found there a mixture of incompetence, growth craze, greed of money, impurity. Those responsible who we have already found in politics there have put people in the bank who, in their turn, were relatively quickly corrupt. There is no need to wonder when semi-politics engage corrupt bank managers that our tax money will then swim away in the Balkans. That's the way it was, it's detectable. That was successful. It starts with – no one has found it yet; we have found it in the files in an advertisement at the prosecutor's office, which is completely plausible – that it has been shown that when selecting the bank managers in 1999, 2000, 2001 – exactly at the beginning of the investigation period – one – knows who it is; I don't always want to name names – was not considered suitable by the Assessment Center for Morals. [[Call the greens: who?]] - The fungus wants to know. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Striedinger!]] It is probably Mr. Striedinger; so far will the imagination be rich. He was already active in the Balkans before, and that's why the hypo board of directors thought: Let's take this for foreign business! From my point of view, much more has happened there than in the Kulterer resort. This is still not our primary purpose of education, but if I find it – no one should say, nothing new comes out; it was always so that more facts came from the files than from the Witness surveys, but that is not surprising either – these notes, then this shows that always and from the first moment was played away on the wrong side, in the worst sense of the word. We have, of course, political responsibility in Carinthia – who else? – that's not the bowl to blame. Also, the occupation of the Supervisory Boards – we continue so that we can still take on speed – was primarily through national policy. This is therefore so important as the credit committee is being recruited from the Supervisory Board. In part, although the bank wanted to keep it from us, we organized the protocols; they were only partially present with other suppliers. What do we see in the minutes of the credit committee? – The fact that these Gauners, who were already known as such at the time, received in minutes credit tranches amounting to fifty million euros, without guarantees, even a third time, a fourth time. And once one has asked a question, he has been swept away – and the person has also been swept away. The Supervisory Board was a member of the Executive Board, and it was purely political; the only one was the GRAVE, but there is not a lot of fantasy to be assigned politically. These ladies and gentlemen, we have partly heard supervisory councils – it was adventurous what we heard there, quite apart from it! In your statement, you have suppressed everything you can only push out. As mentioned above, the files give rise to the complete failure. But this is also a state failure, which has been proved. The state failure is that one could always have seen this, but the note bank and the FMA looked a lot too lax. We – Holub and I, including Dr. Pilz – have already transmitted this at the time, just these cases, in 2006 and before, and they have not followed them enough. We would have saved ourselves very much, very much, and it has been clearly demonstrated that there has been some failure; just as the auditors and auditors have failed, that is no different. There's going to be some improvements, there's got to be a lot more sharp. We have recently decided on a rather weak novel, which has become even worse. There was an improper action – I have left out this now – of the Oesterreichische National Bank, when the bank was deliberately described as not ill, although it was already dead – only with the aim that the Minister could report to Brussels that the bank was healthy. Pröll has done the same; we also have the files that he gave personal instruction: The hypo is healthy! This is a failure chain of the special class, I think, and that has continued: Because one has behaved so unskillfully, the Bayern have had easy play in the so-called nationalization. By the way, you bluffed. We now have several indications that the Bayern would not have sent the hypo to the pleite, but our side has been pulled over the table. Poorly prepared, badly negotiated, bad result – disaster! We found out – I would not have thought that it was possible – that not even the entire text of the contract was read when it was signed on behalf of Pröll, which is even admitted. The guarantee has been waived. In a bank that you knew had been lying to for years, you rely on that! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] It has been plausibly plausible in all the relief action – classification as not ill – which was obviously absurd. Just as the whole process is absurd, one has to remember what the decoupling of this matter brings, and I assume that it will never happen again in this form if we take the consequences. – We are here, I call you, and then the whole thing has had a lot of meaning.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5450	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5472	Madam President, I should like to start by thanking you, especially you - you have been very, very rarely, but yet you have been represented - for your, as I believe, very careful and very objective Presidency, but not only with you, but also with the trial judge and with the procurator and their deputy, with the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, but also with colleagues from all the political groups. About 20 months ago, this investigation committee was set up, and for many of us a very intense time has begun in which we have dealt with the subject of hypo. Today we're just reporting on these 20 months. At least from my side a thank you to you and to all those who have made sure that this committee has worked so well. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the Greens and the Agg. Tamandl.]] To realize that a lot has gone wrong with the hypo, we did not need an investigation committee, but the question of what went wrong has been put to the fore. Now you have to go back a little bit further: The hypo exists for over a hundred years – there has not only been a hypo in Carinthia, but there has been hypo in all federal states for over a hundred years – and they have survived the world economic crisis, the banking crisis et cetera. The question is why they survived all of this and why there were problems then. It must be said that there was a change of law here in this House at the end of the 1980s. Until then, the mortgages were allowed to do very little, namely to lend mortgage loans, to handle housing funds, to finance land projects, and to have liabilities for them. For over a hundred years, nothing has gone wrong. Since 1990, they have been allowed to do everything banks can, and that was just a huge problem, because they had no idea what they were allowed to do because they had no exercise in it. But they did not need it either, because it was not in 1990 that it was impossible to get financial services, a credit, or that no one accepted the savings books. In other words, they did not need anyone, they actually had no idea what they were allowed to do, and they had a lot of, very cheap money due to the country's liabilities – and yes, that went wrong in many federal states: in Burgenland, in Tirol, in Vorarlberg, in Lower Austria. We know there have been losses in many federal states about the hypo. But there is a difference: These losses could be borne by the respective federal or bank; they could all bear them. So what was the difference between the hypo in the other federal states and that in Carinthia? The liability decision in 2003, for example, was a wordable decision in seven federal states – only in Salzburg and Vienna, because they had no more hypo – but there is only one hypo that employs us here, and not seven; therefore, the question arises: What's the difference? – In the investigation committee it was relatively clear: The difference makes the Freedom Party, especially the Freedom Party in Carinthia, but also at the federal level. That's what makes the difference to the other hypo. It begins with the decision taken in 2003 that these liabilities may last almost ten years – it is always said that they have been taken unanimously; yes, unanimously, in seven days of land, but only once a problem – one that has always been made responsible in the days of the countryside, which has been said: You're looking to see that the risk won't be too great for us! You can look at every note in this bank, you can have everything checked, and you'll get a stop button! And if there's a problem, you press that stop button! This stop button has been pressed in many federal states, only in one not, and that was Carinthia. There the competent caretakers, the supervisory commissioners, the finance councils, including Pipeberger, Haider and Dobernig, have never pressed this button. This is the first failure: You have never pressed this stop button that has been pressed in other federal states. I do not want to say that there were any problems in other federal states – there were problems, but there was someone who pressed the stop button, those who were responsible for it. That didn't happen in Carinthia. Second: supervision. We have always heard that this is a supervisory failure and so on. For example, a supervisory structure looks like. [[a board on the speaker board, one half of which is covered with one sheet of paper and on whose other half under the title ‘Sight structure’ is to be seen a circle with different segments of colour]] This is something complex, something colorful, there are a lot of bodies; you probably can't read what there is. Let us look at this: 1999/2000 the Freemans take over for the first time almost leading government responsibility at the federal level and at the national level. What does the supervision look like shortly after when it comes to hypo? [[The speaker removes the paper from the other half of the board, on which the same circle is represented under the title ‘FPÖ’, with mostly blue segments.]] - It's just blue. [[Call:Boah]] At all points of supervision, people from two offices are sitting; they have all worked in two offices: either at the Haider or at the Grasser. All these nodes are persons who only worked in these two offices. And yes: Supervision has looked more than looked at – up to the supervisory reform and, above all, as long as the liberals were in the Federal Government, the Minister of Finance and as long as they were in charge of government in Carinthia. Yes, this has happened in all these areas. That's the difference. The liberals make the difference between what has happened in other federal states and what has happened at the Hypo Carinthia. Next: One time, 2006, the supervision really did something. After the loss of swaps, the financial market supervision has started a decommissioning process, as it has been said: The board of directors, cults, has to leave, it is not suitable to run a bank! What happened then? – Head of State Haider defamed the FMA boards, sent a letter to Grasser, said: You have the obligation to drop them! And what did Minister of Finance do to Grasser? . He has initiated a decommissioning procedure against the Boards. Finally, financial market supervision becomes active in 2006 and wants to ensure order in this bank – and what are the blue politicians doing? – They threaten them with the decomposition: Pressure on supervision, impossibility of supervision. When they sold the bank in 2007, what did they do? – You sold the bank, but you kept the liability. Maintain the liability, keep the risk, 2007 – a very serious mistake! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the sale there were individuals who warned of it; but these were not the Blues, they were people of other parties. They have warned against selling and retaining the liability; the liberals have not sold and retain the liability – good idea, you can only say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klinger.]] What did they do in 2008 when the bank first got into trouble? What have the liberal politicians done in Carinthia? – New liability offered! That would have been illegal, but wurster! They offered new liability to Bavaria in 2008: I give you liability, take up money, I'm responsible for it! In 2008, in the financial crisis, one has come up with the idea of unlawfully entering into new liabilities. What did they do in 2009 when this bank was in the middle of the pleite? What did they do as owners – where the Carinthians were still minority owners? They said: I'm on my property, I'm gonna shoot money into that bank!, did they do that? - No! What did they do? – They almost cancelled their savings books. They took money out of the bank. You made the bank's problem worse, and that as the owner! I say to you that in these 20 months I have not seen a single constructive, positive contribution from the liberals, neither at federal level nor at national level, in connection with the hypo. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] I have only seen that they have increased the risk and that they have made the damage worse, that they have worsened the bad situation, but never seen any constructive contribution to reduce the damage in order to reduce the costs for taxpayers. Not even in the solution so that we finally get rid of these liabilities in Carinthia, the liberals are there; no, they are on the verge and forgave attitudes and pretend as if they had nothing to do with it. That's pathetic what you're showing here! That's really pathetic! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Hafenecker.]] On the question of nationalization: Top prepared? - No! I'll tell you: No federal government in this world will ever be prepared to take over such a horrendous bank! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Which government takes over banks every 14 days? - None! And no one expected it to be such a broken bank that the liberals left behind; no one really expected it. In so far as: Were we well prepared? - No! Did you make the most of it? - Yes! Have you been allowed to pull over the table? [[Abg. Hagen: Bavaria! ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: That's not to stop!]] I mean, there's always this filth, you've been pulled over the table. - Ha, ha, ha! Let's take a look at that. [[A further panel on the speaker board bearing the title ‘Bayern’ and under the title ‘Risiko Insolvency’ shows a bar labeled ‘5,5 billion’, and under the title ‘Cost Nationalisation’, a bar labeled ‘4,9 billion’.]] What was the risk of Bavaria and what were the costs? – The risk of Bavaria was €5.5 billion, which was their risk in case of insolvency. What have they paid to this day? – €4.9 billion. [[Abg. Schimanek: (the corresponding melody intones) “I make the world, wide-ranging as it pleases me”!]] Nearly a hundred percent of their risk has become striking, a difference of several hundred million euros. Costs could be reduced if more money remained in the HETA. What was the situation for Austria? [[a further board, bearing the title ‘Austria’, and under the title ‘Risiko Insolvency’, showing a bar labeled ‘25 billion’, and under the title ‘Cost Nationalisation’, a bar labeled ‘4,3 billion’.]] – Our risk was more than €25 billion. [[Abg. Kogler: But there are...!]] What have we paid to this day? – € 4.3 billion. Is that going to be more? – Yes, it’s about to double, but that’s far away from the risk/cost ratio that Bavaria had. [[Abg. Kogler: A herb and beet economy!]] Who is responsible for this damage? – That’s what the liberals always say, that’s the Bayern. From documents, from facts, from files from the Committee of Inquiry, it is appropriate that the problem is the lazy loans that are now being paid back, and we have looked at who has granted these loans under whose supervision this has happened. [[A further panel which lists the names Dobernig, Haider, Pipeberger and Zernatto under the title ‘Responsibility for Damage’, each with a beam indicating how much damage these persons have to bear]] – These are the country’s supervisory commissioners, and you can see who was responsible from the policy to ensure that the risk to taxpayers is low. Piperberger, Haider, Dobernig, these are the three persons responsible for ensuring that the risk to taxpayers remains small. Yes, they failed! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] You see here at the length of the beams as it was. I'm going to show you one last plate, because we've still converted it to the main owners. [[another panel on the speaker’s desk, which is presented under the title “Responsibility for Damage” in the form of a pie chart, how much damage Bavaria or Carinthia is responsible for]] – More than 80 percent of the loans that cannot be repaid today have been granted under the ownership of the Carinthians, less than 20 percent under the main ownership of Bavaria. Yes, the Bayern have also made a lot of mess, but to do as if the liberals had nothing to do with it is ridiculous. This has really been demonstrated by the Committee of Inquiry: the Freeman is the responsible person. That's the difference between the other country-hypos, where everything hasn't always gone well, and Carinthia. [[New call of the abg. Schimanek.]] The FPÖ is the difference. The damage to taxpayers is several billion euros, and there is a political responsibility there. [[The MEPs Schimanek and Hafenecker:Communal credit, Bank Burgenland...!]] That was our task, and the answer is quite simple: Freedom Party of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5730	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5751	Madam President. High house! Estimated citizens! The Hypo-Research Committee is experiencing its finale here. For 700 hours we consulted 123 people in 79 sessions, 16 million file pages are located in our data area and, of course, it is also important to thank ourselves in advance, at least for all those forces who were on the move in the service of the Enlightenment. Unfortunately, they were not all, that must be said openly; it was not even the majority in the committee of inquiry. Don't worry about it! What are the findings from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats? – Three questions have been raised at the heart of the Enlightenment. Question No one: How could a bank dwarf such as the Hypo Alpe-Adria cause huge losses of at least €15 billion to taxpayers? The Causa Hilltop, known in the investigation committee as the goat snack case, was as informative as symbolic for answering this question. There was a loan of around €40 million for a small property on a Croatian island, without security, with a fake value report. The planned tourism projects have not yet been realized, but the money is gone. Those who are profiters have been veiled by directing payments through Liechtenstein trustees and anonymous foundation structures. We have looked at many such cases and causs in the Committee of Inquiry and found out that this is not an individual case, but a system. The bank has been systematically cleared out over years by the collusion of criminals inside and outside the bank – modern bank robbery, as I always call it – and that is the real reason for the economic collapse of Hypo Alpe-Adria. This “credit award” was financed – under quotation marks – by bonds guaranteed by a default of the country of Carinthia. No prior or subsequent consent had to be obtained for the liabilities entered into by the Bank. The risk for the country of Carinthia was therefore uncontrolled and unlimited. When did it explode? – This occurred especially at the beginning of this millennium, when the national liabilities increased from around €5 billion in 2000 to almost €25 billion in 2007. Who's responsible? – The then head of state Haider, who from 1999 to 2008, exactly at this time, held the main political responsibility. What was the obvious consideration for this unlimited, uncontrolled liability? – That was nothing but political lending! Hypo Alpe-Adria has been abused as a banker for national policy and has had to lend loans that it should never have granted for purely economic reasons. In this case, for example, the project Schlosshotel Velden emerges: € 133 million has been invested in a tourist show project desired by national policy, it has finally been sold by €39 million – no amount: about €100 million. The second question, which was at the heart of the Enlightenment, was: Why must the Austrian taxpayer pay the bill for a bank characterised by criminal transactions and machinations? – Well, the first case of sin has already taken place in 2008 when the government of the Hypo Alpe-Adria granted €900 million out of taxpayers’ money, without careful examination of the bank’s economic situation. As Alibi, an opinion of the National Bank was issued within four days and the Bank issued a personal note. In this context, the then and today Governor Novotny bears responsibility for this, and it is completely incomprehensible for me that someone who is responsible for such a thing, who has at least been abused for a political order review, today, in 2016, is still governor of the National Bank. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] This method of non-comprehensible care irregularities continued in 2009. In contrast to Bavaria, the Federal Government has not added any external experts, the national liability has not been subject to any legal examination, and the negotiating positions have been mis-rated – and, Mr Krainer, you have done the same again today: You have, like the National Bank back then, mistakenly assumed in your account that the mortgage would be nothing more valuable, that the assets that can still be used would be null, and that this would make the risk bloated and completely exaggerate. – This is and remains wrong. It is not apparent that an examination of alternatives to the acquisition of the hypo by the federal government and thus by the taxpayer. A due diligence test – international standard – has been neglected and, last but not least, the federal government has also failed to guarantee any kind of guarantee that all risks from Bavaria have been transferred to Austria. This inactivity continued after the acquisition. Although de facto insolvent and without a viable business model, the Hypo Alpe-Adria was continued. The investigative committee has also demonstrated and demonstrated that not later than autumn 2010, both the Chancellor's Office and the Ministry of Finance were informed of the disastrous state of the bank and of the wrong balance sheets. Nevertheless, the balance sheets were not corrected, the suspicion of the balance sheet falsification was not indicated, and the bank was still kept artificially alive with tax money. The Finance Ministers Pröll and Fekter are responsible for this. Can one really talk about failure in such a conspicuous series of carelessness and misbehaviour? - I have my doubts. I wonder if this was not more intentional inactivity. It is suspected that the political decision to take the hypo was made in advance and without any material basis. Not least, we have also found in the Hypo-Research Committee – which was previously unknown – that the countries were faced with liabilities of almost €10 billion over their respective national mortgages. There is a situation where the questionable financial presentation of some of the national leaders remains under the cover and taxpayers pay the bill. The third and last question raised in the center of the Enlightenment was the following: Why have all the ministers responsible watched for years? I also call this the chapter "Legal scandal" Hypo Alpe-Adria. I would just like to mention as a marginal note that financial market supervision has remained inactive over all these years. However, what we have seen in the so-called reprocessing of the hypo-crime has really surpassed everything. Not only that the Klagenfurt Procuratorship has been completely inadequately equipped with resources, but the Ministry of Justice has the public prosecutor’s office – without a call for tender! – a consultant who was caught because she previously worked for the hypo. The Klagenfurt Public Prosecutor's Office was assigned a prosecutor from the Ministry of Justice, although he had no economic experience – but the desire of the Chief of Cabinet made it possible. In any case, only the offence of unfaithfulness is accused, which is quite practical for the prosecutors, because they only have to prove a damage to the bank. However, the criminal money is not checked, and this in turn is practical for the profiters, because they remain unlit. The taxpayers stay on the track, the rule of law remains on the track, and the Minister of Justice, Bandion-Ortner, Karl and our Minister of Justice, Brandstetter, are politically responsible for this. The latter is particularly interesting because he represented the hypo-grands of Kulter, Moser and Berlin before the start of his ministry as a criminal defender, among other things. As Minister he then changed the pages and is now the chief chief of the prosecution authorities. How's that? Are the legal principles relating to conflicts of interest and partiality not known in Austria? Does the rule of law only apply to the ordinary citizen? Well, the conclusion is: After one and a half years of investigation committee, despite massive disability, some findings have been made. It must also be noted, however, that this swamp is further developed out of possession, corruption and exuberant rule of law, and that is why such a disaster can happen at any time. To conclude: What can you do? . I call on the citizens, in particular, to see what they can do, because we should not forget that this Committee of Inquiry, among other things, has been set up by hundreds of thousands of signatures of citizens of this country, yes, at all. Now, valued citizens, you have the lever back in hand! You can make sure that this old system is selected by old parties. Now you have the opportunity to eliminate this old system and create space for something new. [[Abg. Lugar: Are there new elections?]] [[Abg. Krainer: Yes, but this has already happened in Carinthia! The liberals have been elected!]] I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5809	The next item is Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5830	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we complete a chapter on these days: on the one hand – with today’s day – 20 months of investigation committee, research into the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank, but of course also the handling of the HETA, which was successful for the Minister of Finance, which Mr Kogler criticised, but which I would like to highlight as very positive on behalf of my group. Also the country of Carinthia has to make a contribution, and I think that is an essential point: The creditors also have a contribution to make, which has always been called for, and we must all thank Mr Schelling for his negotiating skills, because this is the final conclusion of the chapter. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the committee of inquiry itself: This Committee of Inquiry is the first of these types. The opposition was able to set up a committee of inquiry with a minority of one quarter of the MEPs. In my opinion, the new instrument has worked very well despite initial difficulties. I would like to express my ex-plicit thanks to the trial judge, Dr. Pilgermair, but of course also to Professor Binder, who worked as a trial lawyer, to the chairman, Madam President Bures, and to their two alternates, Karlheinz Kopf and Norbert Hofer. The employees, of course, also belong to the success of a committee of inquiry. I would like to thank my own staff, our club staff and, of course, my colleagues, but also the good cooperation with the other groups. What is likely to be offered here again in the next few hours and what has sometimes been offered in the Committee of Inquiry is one thing, but taking responsibility or preparing, for example, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, is the other. This was not easy for all of us, and I would really like to thank our colleagues. Much has been done unanimously, much has been achieved with the approval of five out of six parties, and I believe that this must be honoured. I would like to thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank Parliament's Directorate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] The studies have confirmed many things, but some have also explicitly supported them. What we knew was that the origin of this largest financial scandal of the Second Republic in Carinthia, in the Carinthian state policy, is to be found. The FPÖ then set the head of state, and it was a high-level and central bank-led head of state who extended the liability to up to €25 billion in the event of an exorbitant expansion of the bank. – One has to imagine this, which is more than ten times the national liability – the national budget – thanks. [[Abg. Lugar: The Landesbudgets!]] The country of Carinthia could never have served these liabilities, and I think the politicians were clear. Of course, the liability commissions were great, because of course they have helped state captain Haider to pursue a bread and game policy that is looking for the same. The interconnectedness of persons also shows a moral image that moves through this entire bank and through this entire causa. Let me give you a few examples of this: How can it be that an auditor of an audit firm that has examined the bank for years suddenly becomes the Supervisory Board of the Bank, which he himself has audited? It even had to be withdrawn – and that is hardly the case otherwise – once a statement of confirmation, because the Kulter Executive Board had lost the time and only passed on specific information, which is why the auditors had to withdraw the test. An auditor, who was at the time also working with one of the two responsible audit firms, namely Dr. Karl-Heinz Moser, then suddenly became Chairman of the Supervisory Board – a link that normally should not exist at all! Or: In the case of cults due to swap losses, a management qualification procedure was carried out by financial market supervision. What happened? – He has changed to the Supervisory Board, and everyone has watched, some have even spoken positively of continuity – a moral picture that has gone through this bank all the time. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Raiffeisen... Kulterer!]] On the critique of participation capital: After the Lehman argument in 2008, it was even a wish at European level and also necessary that no European bank should go into insolvency, as this would have resulted in a domino effect throughout the European Union. The Hypo Alpe-Adria was by the way the best-tested bank in all of Austria. The National Bank knew the bank inside and outside. That is to say, the criticism that for an opinion only four days was, you can say, but you don't necessarily allow them, because the mortgage has received critical reports from the National Bank for years. The National Bank knew the bank. [[Abg. Stroll: Not distressed!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lugar and Mr Hagen.]] The National Bank knew how it was about the bank. That is why the opinion was also a basis for the Federal Government to make decisions, and that was not an opinion one wanted, but it was an opinion which the National Bank has drawn up as an expert on the Republic, and on this one it is also necessary to rely on the Federal Government. On the strange question of the need-to-distress assessment, namely, the Bank was neither healthy nor ill, but “non-sick”: This is, of course, a strange coincidence that, contrary to the European Commission's recommendations, there was its own word creation. But the whole thing goes on: It is always criticized for nationalization, but it is totally hidden what role Bavaria had in the process and what role the Carinthians had at that time. In fact, the Committee of Inquiry has supported very well, ladies and gentlemen, that the Bavaria decided already in August 2009 that they would like to leave the bank. That's what we could be in the investigation committee. We always believed that they decided that much later. Yes, the Republic of Austria, the representatives of the Federal Government and all those involved did not get this until mid-December 2009, but the Bavaria had the plan before, and the Carinthian had this plan, because they already said: Of us there is no other capital! as the bank went downhill. What, then, do we want to criticise a nationalization that has simply been done without particularly good information from the owners – on the part of the old owners, but also on the part of Bavaria? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what came after that is what happened before: Miss management in the bank, partly also the failure of supervision, and also the role of auditors was one that one can probably consider long in the future about the past. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear: A committee of inquiry must in any case filter out consequences, and that can only be reforms. We have made many recommendations on this, for example, a reform of supervision: It must be so clear and transparent that critical reports are simply not only put on ad acta, but that they also lead to consequences. As far as the Commissioners of State are concerned, there must be an appreciation, and clear criteria need to be defined, how to become a state commissioner and what we need to bring with it. On the other hand, the role of auditors must also be considered: The merger of the auditors, which there was at the hypo, in the course of which one suddenly failed to trust one another and did not jointly withdraw the unrestricted note of confirmation, but separately, has again shown a moral picture of this whole matter. Nevertheless – and this must be noted at the end of this Committee of Inquiry and this revision and also in the light of the resolution of the HETA – it is remarkable how little regret is given in the Freedom Party on this issue. It is remarkable how little self-criticism the Freedom Party has expressed in the country's arrests. The Haider system has passed far beyond the death of Jörg Haider in the bank. Culters and co have just continued this and have tried to do everything they can to keep everything under the table and hide it. We have now clarified everything, and I am now excited to see what Mr Angerer will say about it. In my opinion, he cannot dissuade these accusations.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5920	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e5942	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Many claim that the Committee of Inquiry has brought little to nothing at all. Unfortunately, we have to agree on certain routes. There has not been much knowledge. There's been a lot of stuff that we haven't known yet, but most of it we already knew. If you ask the question why this is so, then you quickly learn that this is primarily because we have set up a committee of inquiry to clarify the processes surrounding the hypo, but have not received any files from the hypo. – You have to break this on your tongue: There is an investigation committee that is trying to explain what went wrong with the hypo, and we have not received from the hypo or from the ITA files to the bank. What we've got, these were files that got into the committee on detours, and we don't know whether they're complete either, because there was no completeness note. There was no declaration of completeness, and we have also repeatedly noticed during the investigation committee that files have not been transmitted at all. That was the birth defects of this committee, and if we are to set up a committee again, we must definitely ensure that the files are also available. This was not the case with this committee, and that was also the reason why not too much has come out. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] A second important reason for this was also: The persons questioned were protected by a threefold against the Members; we have experienced this in the Committee over and over again. There was the trustee, there was the lawyer, and there was the trial judge, who immediately intervened, if only once asked into the blue, because we did not know what to ask for in concrete terms, because we had no documents and files from the bank. Now, of course, one had to ask questions to possibly find out something, and that was very hard and immediately turned off in the Committee. We also need to talk about whether we want to change this in the future, because if we really want to find out something, we also need to change the question accordingly, so that even once a surveyer might say something that will help us to ask further questions again. That's how you move on in a survey. That's what anyone can tell you who has experience, just as far as the hearing of defendants is concerned. [[Abg. Obernosterer: Do you have them?]] [[Abg. Krainer: Interview of defendants?- Oh, my God!]] Yes, we have learned some things we have not yet known, for example, that the state commissioners who were on the ground and who should check and get what is going wrong in the bank – and the bank has done a lot of things that was criminal, what was illegal, what was against the law – which has not seen, but not because they are incapable, but because they have not seen it at all. For me, it was a news that the state commissioners were kept by law, this task, which is incredibly important and which might have saved us many billions of euros, in their spare time. Did you know that, dear television viewers, dear citizens, dear taxpayers you can pay for this now? Did you know that by law the state commissioners are obliged to do this supervision in their spare time, and for that they get €315 a month? – These state commissioners are going to the bank, and these state commissioners must then determine whether the bank may be turning left - just like the hypo in the Balkans and elsewhere. This information is even provided in the credit documents. We have heard today from Hilltop, of this case with a damage height of 30 to 40 million €. And in this case, it was in the documentation that this is a left-wing lot and that this property is bought only by the bank to resolve provisions in order to prevent value adjustments. This is clearly a breach of law. You could see that in the documents. Only the State Commissioner never saw these documents because she did it in her spare time and had no time to read all the documents. She's satisfied with what happened to the bank. By the way, the others have done the same. The Supervisory Board, which would normally be obliged, has also been satisfied with this, and that is the problem. That is, if we create by law a system that allows those who control to see exactly, there is no control at all. And so it was at the hypo. The hypo is going and is also dealing with the state control of OeNB and FMA by then moving down investment projects in certain areas – and not only that, because it might be possible to check in Croatia or elsewhere – one then shifts it further into purpose companies and then into other purpose companies and sub-companies, with the same people who are passed from the top down to then complete this business at the very bottom. The only sense of this is that supervision cannot look in. That's the point. That's clear to everyone. Supervision has also said that – not just once – the OeNB has said: Sorry, we don't see in there; the hypo conceals it quite consciously! Help us out of politics! And what happened? - Nothing happened. On the contrary: The FMA, who should have issued these letters, disputed with the OeNB. There have been tensions, because one has deliberately separated that between the OeNB – those who have known themselves – and the FMA, who should implement it politically, but has not done so. And that's the hypo problem. In all of this, politics has watched – not only in Carinthia – the whole policy has watched. The Minister of Finance has watched. Everyone's been watching. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Everyone knew that the Carinthian Bank was a desert soccer resort. Funnyly, the Bavaria knew that too. It's always said that the Bavaria, the poor Bavaria, bought this shit and didn't know what they were getting involved with, but they knew it. It was even in the contract: Whether that's true or not, what we're telling you, no matter how the bank is together, we're not taking it back! – So it was in the contract, and the Bavaria accepted it because they wanted exactly that. They wanted to have a wild soccer house to continue where the others stopped. The employees of the FMA said to me in the committee that they hoped that Bavaria would finally look closely at it, and in the same breath they said that they did not, unfortunately, do. And yet it was watched. Nevertheless, one has made Bavaria work, according to the motto: Yes, yes, it will! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] And then, when the Bavaria noticed that this was not happening, they put the knife on us and said: Take the cremple back! The most interesting thing about this is: Here comes Mr. Kranebitter, an advisor to Bavaria – you have to imagine it – the opposite side, and puts the knife on us. In the Committee we saw that Mr. Kranebitter was the first to have the idea to hire the knife to the Austrians with the insolvency. The idea has not been met before by any of the Bayern. Then we're going to come up with cranebitter and put the knife on us. Pröll in the Committee says: Ah, I went to my knees because the knife was on my neck! Unfortunately, I couldn't help it. We had to take it back. Ah, the insolvency, it's so bad, and the Bayern are so bad! [[Abg. Krainer: Such a fool, please!]] And then what happens? – We take the Krempel back, and then the one who put the knife on us, namely Kranebitter, Chief Executive Officer. Leave You're gonna break this on your tongue! Who's doing such a thing? – If someone is required to do something he doesn’t want – and everyone has said they didn’t want it – does he make the one who put it on the tapet who put the knife on the neck, the chief of the board?- Oh, my God! Then fate has set the course once again towards hope for the taxpayer. Fekter and Spindelegger still wanted to let the Bude go into bankruptcy and would have saved us a lot of money. There was an opinion that said that this would be the best solution for taxpayers. I'm not talking about whether you should have taken it back at all. We should not have done that, but we know that since the Griss report. But even then we would have had the opportunity to save the taxpayer – and even then this federal government has not done so. Now this federal government goes here and compares itself with the creditors who have written down 50 percent in their books before. You have to imagine that! The OeNB and the FMA have required them to write down 50 percent. And now you give them 90 percent. They make a profit now because we give them 90 percent. And who pays for this? The taxpayer! [[Abg. Obernosterer: What's your bill?]] That's an insanity what's going on. It's an absolute insanity. And that's the problem. That is why we need a few measures very quickly, and they are simply explained. Firstly, we must combine FMA and OeNB. What belongs together must be together. Secondly, the state commissioners must be used primarily in the professional field. They don't have to do this in their spare time. They have to look into the bank day and night to prevent this. The third point is very important: Politics is out of the banks! – We still have that in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Steinbichler: In Upper Austria too!]] Politics is out of the banks! And the most important point to the end, then I'm already done: We need a political liability. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Mr Heinzl.]] That is what we need, namely a political liability, because only if we have a political liability do we have politicians who think about what they are doing three times. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Mr Krainer.]] This is especially true of those who are now once again spoiling the people's wealth at the HETA, and of those who are constantly watching it. If we had a political liability, Pröll wouldn't have made it national at all. I guarantee you, then he'd have been asked to cash. And just as every entrepreneur – I was long enough entrepreneurs – has to bear a liability if he builds crap, a politician must finally be held responsible, not by relinquishing, but by standing straight for his decisions and thus can still face taxpayers tomorrow. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This is political liability, and we need it here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6097	The next item is the report by Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6118	Mr President. Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! [[The speaker put forward a paper entitled “20 Months of Hypo Examining Committee. What's the result? What are the consequences?"]] [[Abg. Krainer: Taferl should also be able to read!]] After 20 months of investigation committee, people in this country are expecting, I believe, answers and no mutual debt allocations. The questions most often asked to me are: What's the result? And what consequences do we draw from it? But before I come to this issue, I would also like to express my express thanks, on behalf of my group, to the President, Mr Doris Bures – also to Mr President-in-Offices, whom they have sometimes represented. It took over the chairmanship of the Committee of Inquiry, was in some cases vis-à-vis its own group president, and nevertheless managed the whole with a balanced hand. I really say thank you for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This also applies, of course, to the Parliamentary Directorate, to the Court of Procedure and to the Procedural Advocate. We have also criticized and questioned you, but with your statement in the “ZIB 2” yesterday, you have brought in an interesting aspect, as you have said, that if you change the function of the trial judge in a certain way, you will also improve the survey in these consultation rounds. This is, of course, a different perspective, and then you can also discuss whether a procedural judge makes sense. It is a question of informing us that we are dealing with democratic tasks which this House and the Members have to fulfil. They must be fulfilled at the best possible level, and if a procedural judge can contribute to this, it should be so. The Rules of Procedure in itself are also very positive. It is very important that the establishment of a committee of inquiry is now a minority right. I believe that we in this House should be proud that in the future information cannot be prevented, as happened here 20 times in advance by the government parties. It must also be remembered that we have always been committed to the establishment of this committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The forwarding of the report here to the House has also led to discussions, but we are also positive that we say that, although we do not agree with everything that Mr Procedural Judge and the President have presented, we will, of course, take this report along with our annexes in the meaning of the new Rules of Procedure and take note of it. But now perhaps to the causes and consequences: We have simply tried to record facts that can be proved by means of documents and to compile our report on the basis of statements made by individuals. [[The speaker put forward a paper entitled "The basis for the country's liability – a unanimous decision in the Ktn. Landtag 1990 and 2004’ and a graphic on the speaker's desk.]] And now, when I take out the first fact, namely, the much-quoted country liability: Now we can discuss liability, and we will also discuss it and do it for a long time. We all assume liability, we assume in our community liabilities that go beyond the annual budget of our community. Now you just have to resist: What is the value for which I assume liability? What risk do I have if I take over this liability? How high is this liability to be maximum? Countries assume liability, all countries in Austria have liability. The federal government has taken over current liabilities of €94 billion. This is also far above the federal budget. What happens when these liabilities get beat? How big is the risk when these liabilities become critical? [[Abg. Fekter: Two years of budget, not 20 years of budget!]] And just to put it this way, there would have been a damage of €27 billion, and no value to it, is simply wrong. This has already been said by Mr Hable. And I am now also bringing you an example of taking over liability – and this will always have to be decided by politicians, and Mr Schelling, Minister of Finance, decided last year: He's sold the hypo's South-Eastern Europe networks. It is necessary to know that the South-East Europe networks of the Hypo are at the time of nationalization with approximately €1.8 billion of book value in the books, says the National Bank, in 2015 it was still €513 million, and the South-East Europe networks of the Hypo were sold by Mr. Finanzminister Schelling last year by €50 million. In addition, he has assumed a liability of €1.7 billion for the South-East Europe networks. This is the 34-fold of the obvious value of this bank. Now you have to ask: On what basis did he decide? – He obviously had to decide, but we do not know what Mr Lugar has already said, because there is absurdity that we have no insight into this bank, into this society. But he decided. Whether it was happening, whether it was not happening, whether these liabilities would be beating or not, we will learn first. And it is even in the report of Mr Krainer that he sees this danger. Now we might go to the next topic that people are also interested in: [[A panel with the title “billion damage” and a graphic on the speaker’s desk]] How did the damage come about? Now I'm calling for statements from those in the Hypo-Research Committee. There were two people who called a number. The one person was the mastermind from the Raiffeisen Group, the former CEO of Culterer. He has said, for his time – by 2007 – he can imagine that 1 billion euros of damage have been incurred. Now I'm starting from this period. Today, as we all know or accept – we do not know exactly – we are at perhaps 7 billion, 8 billion, 10 billion euros, which in the end result as a damage. Where did the rest of this damage come about? [[Abg. Tamandl: That must not be true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] – And this has already been mentioned today, and that is why I do not need to put myself in detail, but at least I did not count that, but the former ÖVP Minister of Economic Affairs Dr. Johannes Ditz. I appreciate Mr Ditz – although I only met him in the Committee of Inquiry – that he understands something about the economy. I know that you see this differently and that he now also sees it differently what the ÖVP of Economy understands. But I think he can estimate that, and he said that a damage of up to €5 billion has been done. And who has been Minister of Finance during this period? That was Mr Pröll. We still do not know why he has nationalized this bank, why he has taken off the Bayern bank. This question remains unanswered because there is simply no reason for it. The insolvency threat that has arisen in the room does not exist, it has never existed. There has been no reason to take over this bank. But he did it anyway. And that was the beginning of a damage that Mr Ditz has estimated at €5 billion. Why did Mrs. Fekter, who's sitting here with us, prevent Bad Bank? – We already know why, probably the 2013 election year. Of course she didn't admit it, but it's probably so. In the end, we had to sell the assets under high pressure, because we underestimated all of this, including the aid procedure. If you go to the neighbor today, buy him a fridge, pull the plug out of the socket, then carry the refrigerator home, then wait four or five years and then open the refrigerator and say: Now I'm selling what's inside!, then you'll get the content that's in this fridge isn't very much. And that's exactly what you did with the hypo. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One can, of course, shift this to consultants, officials and other people. The question is: Are we going to do something good as a politician? And here I am already with Mr Lugar: A certain responsibility should be assumed by a politician, and he should stand by what he is doing, what he says and what decisions he makes, for otherwise we should actually withdraw from politics. I, as mayor – and there are other mayors inside here – take over this responsibility, because the mayors are the only ones who are always in liability with one foot when they make a decision. We all here can say a lot under immunity and do not have to answer for it. The only question is whether we are all doing well as politicians if we constantly push ahead of our responsibilities and are not prepared to take on this responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are responsible that we in Carinthia have agreed on the country's liability. If I read through the report from SPÖ, I have to say honestly that I just don't think anything more about it when the FAQs on whether the SPÖ has taken part in the country's liability as an answer is no. This is a denial of reality, because today's head of state was sitting in the Landtag and decided to do so, just as our Members have agreed. And the ÖVP, in its report, writes like this: Yes, they have decided that, that was the origin, the mistake, the green, Holub, has decided at that time and he now refuses to decide on it, which is actually more to blame for it than they do. – Everyone decided that in the Carinthian Landtag, and they should stand for it. We're on it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally. [[a table entitled “Share of Depreciation Banks at Maastricht Debt in Billion” and placing a graphic on the speaker’s desk]] What damage will result from it? What damage will remain in the end? – You always forget the other two banks, which are still in this package with inside. - I'll be right there. My colleague already shows me that I have to stop, but I still have to do that. The source of this graphic, which I have here before me, is the Court of Auditors – and I believe that we are not questioning the Court of Auditors. It states that for the Maastricht deficit, a total of €29.4 billion has been spent on banks, including the Volksbanken-AG with €2.3 billion and the municipal loan of €11.9 billion, i.e. almost €12 billion. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] And if I look at the hypo/HETA with the solution Carinthia, then at the end there will be a deficit in the order between 6 billion and 10 billion, maybe 11 billion € left – we don't know yet because we still have liabilities taken over – and the Carinthians pay of it 1.2 billion €. As a Carinthian with a share of 12 percent of a bank in total – EUR 1.2 billion plus € 200 million in nationalization – you have to ask yourself why you pay € 1.4 billion as a Carinthian and why Bavaria has recovered € 5 billion in recent years. I have to tell you the truth, as a Carinthian, I have to ask myself this question. I think it is ours, whether as government or opposition, responsibility to learn from it. Much has already been said, and in many ways we agree, even with the demands of the Greens – I do not need to repeat them either. It is the conclusions to draw from it, because the last ones bite the dogs. And the taxpayer is actually tired of getting bitten all the time. In this sense, I hope we all learn from it and draw the right consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6258	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6279	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Madam President Bures! Ladies and gentlemen! After 20 months of intensive work it is also time to thank the team. That is why we, colleague Werner Kogler and I, would like to thank our team – Edgar Blocher, Hermann Dummer, Roland Spitzlinger, Inge Hausbichler, Marc Schimpel, Heinz Hattinger, Wolfgang Niklfeld, Josef Meichenitsch – for the intensive and competent work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After 20 months of work and the facts we have on the table, and the lessons we have learned from it, it is now also time to ask: What does it really have to do with consequences? What must be put into law? What strands of action are now open to us to prevent such a financial debacle from happening again? I would like to begin with the area of liability: In 2006, the country of Carinthia was liable for €24.7 billion, with revenue of just €1.9 billion. And it was offered, completely outrageously, further liability. To this end, I would like to quote from the Green Hypo report – which you can of course visit on our homepage, as well as on the Parliament's homepage – page 31. The then head of state and current Federal Council of FPÖ Dörfler, together with Mr Dobernig, wrote the following – I quote – to Minister of State Fahrenschon in Bavaria: “As we have already deposited on this occasion, the country of Carinthia is ready to assist in the realignment of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG in the further positive development of the Bank and also to grant a national liability for the planned bond – in compliance with the conditions set out above.” – In March 2009, just nine months before the nationalization, another offer to accept the liability. One thing has to be said clearly, Mr Angerer: In 2004, with the votes of all the political groups represented in the Landtag, it was decided to terminate the liability – the expiry! This was a very important step, though with far too long transitional periods. This is due to the intervention that such transitional periods have existed. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] What is the lesson of this? – The teaching is, we need limits of liability, not only for the federal states, but of course for all local authorities and especially for the municipalities. This is a first important step. Of course, we need a clear, transparent presentation of what is included in these liabilities. We know that we have different systems across Austria. It's long overdue! One thing you have to ask yourself about this debacle: Is it the responsibility of the federal states to assume liability for banks? – I say: No, it's not! Here too, a rethinking must take place. The second major area concerns insolvency law. There has already been an appropriate request, which has not found the majority here. The federal states must not make themselves extortionable, we need an insolvency right for the federal states and municipalities! A long-term overdue step that we should implement together in this form, because this insolvency law is a very clear signal, and that is now urgently necessary. A next, very central area was supervision. The auditors are an important member of the supervisory board. In this case, the auditors have had a very special role to play in hypo, not particularly praiseful. The Confida has examined the Bank for many years, i.e. from 1993 to 2005, for an infinitely long time. Of course, there are quite clear dependencies over such a long time. Interestingly, this network of Confida has grown simultaneously in southeastern Europe, where the hypo has expanded. It is precisely here that we need to: It needs the independence of auditors, and we must all be able to rely on the balance sheets. The reliability of these balance sheets is based on the control and warning function. Ladies and gentlemen, it was missed in May/June when we had the first chance to improve the rules in this area. Therefore, first of all, there is a need for a rotation with a shorter rhythm among the auditors. We propose that the test period be limited to six years. Now it's ten years, and that's too long. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] The second is that we need a pool of auditors, compiled by the supervisory authority, and this is where the allocation is to take place. That also ensures independence. And we need much stricter liability rules for auditors, because it always raises the question: If there are no liability, where is the responsibility? – That is exactly what we call for in this form. A very special topic at Hypo was the state banking supervision. This is a triangle of Austrian National Bank, Financial Market Supervision and Ministry of Finance. And what becomes quite clear: In fact, there was a special class of responsibility here. They remember that the FMA and the OeNB made their statements on the Committee, and vice versa referred one to the other and said: Well, actually, they should have done it! The statements have come out quite clearly, it has always been about power. It was about power struggles, and so much has been missed. Hypo was the most tested bank! We have the reports from 2002, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. What has been found? – It has been found that there have been false reports regarding own resources, there have been shortcomings in reporting, lack of credit risk management, poor credit audits. And so almost every test report looked out! Now the question is: Why have there been no consequences? – There is a central problem as the supervision was designed. Yes, there have been improvements since then, which are partly due to EU rules, but nevertheless it is now also necessary to look closely at them, to evaluate where problems are and where one needs to intensify. And to the state commissioners who were a little girl, the question arises: How do we put this up? – Either you strengthen the position or you get rid of it. Of course – and this is the case with the President of the Commission – we are convinced that, if the public authorities are liable, the Court of Auditors has the right to examine, or if there is 25 percent public participation, then the Court of Auditors must also have the right to examine. I come to the next area, to nationalization. There were two essential criteria which led to the fact that there are participation capital or not. One criterion was whether the bank is healthy or ill, and the other was system relevance. This theme of system relevance played a very important role in nationalization, and then one relied on the expertise of the OeNB. To this end, it should be noted that there are various key figures on which one is oriented. If the hypo in Austria had 1,200 employees, it was 7 500 in Europe. The market share in Austria was 4 percent, for example in Bosnia-Herzegovina it was 20.9 percent, in Montenegro 13.9 percent, in Croatia 10.7 percent, much more. The question, of course, is why the nationalization has not taken the step to get in touch with the countries in which the bank was actually system-relevant, and to say: Dear people, there is a problem, there is a construction site, let's see that we find a common solution, we make a Burden Sharing, participate in it! – That was missed too! Therefore, we believe that there is also a need for an evaluation on the subject of system relevance and that we need to look more closely at when and how it is classified and what it means for supervision as a result. One must not forget now – I would like to mention the completeness in the course of today – even after the nationalization a lot of errors have happened. A restructuring, a bad bank was delayed, not the necessary steps were taken. The investigation was hampered, and the new business was more than questionable, so the problems continued. I would like to conclude with the demands: The damage is now there, the taxpayers are at the moment having to bear the burden. We believe, however, that it is necessary for those who have benefited particularly from the saving of the mortgage – and this, of course, is banking in Austria, that is the financial system – to bear the burden on bank charges. I therefore believe that it is necessary to construct the bank levy in such a way that this damage is actually to be done in the foreseeable future. This will not be possible just as the bank levy is now imposed. As a Green Group, we can assure you that in the next few months we will consistently work to bring these demands into line in this form, to implement them in order to prevent such scandals, such damage in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6352	The next speaker is Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6374	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! 20 months, hundreds of hours of survey with the aim of clarifying the political responsibilities, and the FPÖ unfortunately continues to tell us today the old-known fairy tales, pretends as if it had nothing to do with the country's liability. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] What is really inconceivable is what is stated in the FPÖ's final report, namely that all serious and very proud of the fact that the country of Carinthia has earned € 140 million in liability commissions “...and thus operates far economically as other federal states”. - Is that what you're serious about? As a result, billions are being reduced, and in retrospect you can say nothing but quite proudly to the commissions of liability: We deserved something! – What kind of relationship is that? It's incredible you haven't learned anything to this day! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Obernosterer.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You do not need to be so excited, I do not want Mr Strache to pay this amount personally now, I do not want that at all. [[Call the FPÖ: What?]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I personally do not want you to work constructively on a solution to this hypo-miser. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] But what I demand of all of us is that we learn from it together, so that something like that never happens again! And what I would expect of you, the liberal, is that you finally go out and say: I'm sorry about what the taxpayers got from us, what the liberals did in Carinthia! – Unfortunately, you have not done so to this day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] One thing is quite clear from the Committee of Inquiry – the facts in the Committee of Inquiry speak for themselves: They were very prominent in this mess everywhere. They were involved when it came to coloring and looking out for control, when they were sold to the Bayern, when they held the liability and gave the control possibilities, they were there at the emergency nationalization, where Gerhard Dörfler sat prominently at the table. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You weren't there in the next room?]] At the time, the FPÖ country party president of Carinthia Darmann was delighted by a rescue package for Carinthia, which was celebrated in the Carinthian Landtag – so much to the facts, even in the post-war period – and you were involved in the friendly economy with illegal party funding and even if it was about intimidating critics with charges. That was the service of the liberals, you were always there! [[Abg. Hafenecker: The referee was there!]] Finally, you were no longer present when it came to the solution and you tried to clean up this pile. You just weren't there. In the solution, when cleaning up, the liberals were no longer seen. Then what was the solution? – You can't say that often enough. – Strache then talked about here in the high house and said: Let's send Carinthia to the hospital, we'll send the hypo to insolvency!, no matter what that means for the Carinthian population. No matter if you may have to lock hospitals, whether you have to lock up schools, whether you have to release people, he didn't care. That was the only contribution that Mr. Strache made that one should simply turn the federal state. Incredible, irresponsible, what you did not do in the area of solution! Incredible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: What was your contribution?]] If one had not been so stupid at the time to keep the liability and the risk when selling to Bavaria, it would not have needed this whole debate on the need for national emergency. I believe that we can take this very clearly after the Committee of Inquiry. Mr Lichtenecker has already shown it, and it has already been mentioned several times today: If seven federal states have almost equal liability decisions and in Carinthia the liabilities explode, you have to ask: Who was responsible for the control? – It was quite clearly regulated, there was a person who was the caretaker who could have looked at every note that could have looked at any evidence that the hypo should have examined and not only should, but should have done so. This person could also have pressed the stop button at any time, one could have said after 10 billion, 11 billion, 12 billion or 13 billion €: Stop, up here and not on! – No, the liabilities have exploded up to €25 billion. [[Abg. Höbart: Was that the land day?]] And all of this, although the liberal finance councils had the task and the duty to take care of the assets. The monitoring was very clear among the supervisory commissioners. [[Abg. Hoebart: Who has decided, Mr. Colleague?]] [[Abg. Krainer: (in the direction of Abg. You didn't understand anything at all!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I can remind you why you didn't do that. Why did the Finance Councils not control as closely as it was required by law? – Quite simply because it was actually about the bread and games policy of the liberals in Carinthia. I just remember a few examples – Gabriel Obernostererkann certainly mentions a few others –: the youth-thousander, the mother-money, there have been promotions for the suit to the Schlosshotel Velden, and Haider of course also wanted to have his own airline. That was the reason why, so to speak, the liability commissions were so important and one simply did not respect the risk. I believe that we must discuss quite openly that such a thing must never happen again, that we also derive consequences from whether it is a speculation ban in the financial constitution, whether it is liability limits and more transparency, all this is urgently necessary, up to the cooperation of the supervisory authorities. We all have the common task of helping in these cleanups. In Carinthia it has now done the future coalition. Peter Kaiser, Gaby Schaunig, Christian Benger and Rolf Holub worked together and tried to open this mess. What have the liberals done in Carinthia? – They didn’t touch a finger, and they didn’t help in the process and solution that you’ll give Carinthia another chance in the future. On the contrary, one has, so to speak, tried to prevent this solution by all means, and has played investment banks and creditors in the hands of them and is really trying to torpedo this solution. This is incredible, as happened in the post-cleaning work, which against wind not only the Minister of Finance, but also the parties in Carinthia, where we have now achieved this painful solution. Incredible is also what you have shown in retrosponsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can't say this to the young people who have been bubbling up this backpack for thirty years, too often: The liberals are always at the forefront of the problems, but then when it comes to cleaning up and the solutions, the liberals are out of sight.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6567	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6590	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! We are negotiating the final reports on the hypo scandal today. About €15 billion in damage to citizens, this is an astronomical sum. For comparison – because we have heard the budget figures today –: In the education sector, we spend about €8 billion. That is, we would have to lock up 6 000 schools for two years for 1.1 million students we have, when we say that we have just spent the money we need for all the students in this country, for all teachers, for all schools. That's the accident in a regional bank that happened to us! How could this accident happen? But above all: Why can he happen again at any time? – This is the problem: Hypo can happen again in this country at any time because it had a scandal system and because this system still lives in Austria. That's the problem. In the summary, it is a threefold scandal: It is a criminal case, it has celebrated criminals in the bank, outside the bank, domestically and abroad happy origins. It's modern bank robbery on devils coming out. This has also been made very easy for them, and it is also to be feared that many of these criminals in Germany and abroad have not yet been caught. Second point: This has to do with the fact that the hypo is, of course, a supervisory and judicial scandal – and this is essential. Politically, no special-state prosecution was established. The resources for the education were deliberately kept short. It was deliberately intervened which prosecutors in Carinthia were to determine. All of this is an incredible cleanery, an advantage for taxpayers who have to pay for this damage for decades. It was a significant lack of interest in the investigation that entered the Hypo-Research Committee. It was an investigation committee without access to the Hypo Alpe-Adria documents. So the company owned by citizens was granted that it did not have to provide any documents. This is, of course, also an expression for the citizens of this country. [[Abg. Krainer: Who did that to you?]] Why is all this possible? Why was legal removal possible in the judicial system? – This was possible because there was and exists political complicity in the old system of power in this country. The old system of power, borne by FPÖ – in this case – ÖVP and SPÖ. And this old system of power in this country has to go away. It's got to be gone! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It has caused astronomical damage in this case, and the hypo is only symptomatic of this old system of power. There were care obligations that were not observed, for example by finance ministers. We have returned without due diligence, i.e. without an objective, in-depth examination. This would not do a medium-sized company if it took over a company. At the hypo one said: Let's do that, we don't need that somehow! Obviously, the country took over this without professional examination. [[Abg. Krainer: This is not comparable!]] – This is, of course, comparable. And with the sums in the room, dear SPÖ, a clean test would have been all the more important. [[Abg. Krainer: Go, please! An emergency nationalization with a takeover...!]] I do not know why the SPÖ is also protecting ÖVP finance ministers. Of course, they dragged this away, that's for grabbing! [[Abg. Krainer: apples and pears!]] Chairmans of the Supervisory Board of Hypo Alpe-Ad-ria have resigned, by the way, from the ÖVP because they have said: The Minister is tossing away, and the Minister is tossing! Of course, they said: We must deal with it if we do not, the citizens pay billions more! - The minister didn't finish. She said: Yeah, that's not my money, then we'll drag it on! It was, in the best case, dilettantism, if not conscious violation of due diligence. Of course, it is also a matter of intervention in the field of justice. All these are things that are not okay, not tolerable. What can you learn from it for the future? – We need five points: We need an insolvency right for local authorities, even for federal states. This has been a requirement of NEOS since the beginning of our movement. Federal Chancellor Faymann didn't want to do this, and now everyone is pressing. They say: Yeah, you should do that, but you don't. That's the problem. We also need audited auditing for companies under 50 percent federal participation, Madam President. The Court of Auditors should therefore be able to enter into those companies which are 25 percent up-to-date in the possession of citizens and to check them with no help. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] We need a depoliticized, independent justice. This must finally be implemented, whether this is a relinquishing of the right of guidance or whether the finger is away from intervention. We need that urgently. In such cases, of course, we need a special state attorney's office. When, if not, the Republic must say: It is about our money, the money of the citizens, and we are doing a special effort and sending in a special state attorneyship? Finally, the last point: It's not okay that this federal government is privatizing profits on an ongoing basis, but socializing losses, that is, nationally educating the citizens. Of course, as a policy, we must have the courage – just as the Americans have, as some other European countries have already shown – to allow banks to die. There, where big-style dung is built, politics must say: The responsibility must be borne for this! – Therefore, there must also be insolvency for banks if they are no longer entitled to live.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6695	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6716	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Gabi Tamandl thanked many, especially for the club staff of the ÖVP Group, for our parliamentary staff. I really want to tell you, dear Gabi, a warm thanks. You led the ÖVP Group great. It was 20 strenuous months, and this U-committee was for many new lands, but you did it great. I was happy and proud to be with you on this team, and just want to say thank you again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] I do not understand that some previous speakers said that not all in this committee were interested in information. This has been said by one or the other. I can only speak for my group: We were interested in 1 000 percent of education. I think anyone who is sitting in committee – members, journalists or any other kiebitze – can confirm or prove this. We wanted full information, and we have committed 100 percent to it. I mean, the U-committee did great work. Also in-depth on my previous speakers: It was certainly a special situation that this Griss report was a good guide for the entire Committee on 20 months. The CSI has also been somewhat criticized, but I think that Josef Pröll's decision to set up this CSI was correct and important. This has also welcomed and confirmed Rolf Holub, who is now the State Council in Carinthia. Sepp Pröll said: Every proof must be turned back, and that has happened. Let's look at the CSI balance sheet: Over 1 000 cases have been dealt with. A total of €642 million was displayed in 69 case-by-case representations. There have been some civil complaints in the area of over €100 million. Now, just a short while to Erwin Angerer, which I personally very much appreciate: I think it's kind of a bad chance for you. One could have proved credibility now by saying: Okay, we're responsible for the FPÖ responsibility for what happened in Carinthia! This committee has also clearly demonstrated this. You can read all the reports, especially those of Dr. Pilgermair. The political responsibility for this billion scandal lies with the FPÖ and in Carinthia. Instead – and I am now a little disappointed by you – you come there with endless accusations against Josef Pröll or also against Maria Fekter, and from my point of view the whole thing always under the cover of immunity. I think you really have to say to Maria Fekter that through her use she has minimized and reduced the damage to taxpayers. There are not, as you claim, any electoral strategies or similar things in the background. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] [[Abg. Kogler: He was good!]] This is simply not right, and it is also in the final report. The judge also confirms in his report that everything has been done there and that political responsibility is clearly appropriate. This behavior and today's speech were not worthy of you from my point of view, and this also makes a huge contribution to political starkness. I would also like to take a brief look at Matthias Strolz's comments: I do not think that it is the style with which you have moved into Parliament, to raise allegations against justice or against our Minister of Justice, since not everything has been done. You wanted a positive style, and I don't know, but somehow you have it reversed and are destructive instead of constructive. I am sorry because otherwise you do excellent work in many committees. Finally, I can quote from our report, from the ÖVP report, where it is clear what a lawyer says: “A lawyer responsible for informing the CSI Hypo said on the work of the judicial system that there probably had been no second such complex economic criminal proceedings in Austria, which took so short from the announcement to the first judicial conviction. In addition to the officials in the SOKO Hypo and the investigating prosecutors, an experienced bank expert was put to the justice for processing. The expert also assessed the work of the prosecutor’s office, in particular the work of several prosecutors in a team, as ‘greatly grand’.” – So much so on these allegations. I would like to thank all of you very much once again. Let's leave the church in the village! Are you on your political responsibility? We have all contributed to the fact that this political responsibility has been clarified. I would like to thank you once again for the constructive climate in the U Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6778	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6799	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! - Oh, where is she? - High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with the Court of Auditors' report on the hypo because we are dealing with this report under these two agenda items. I would like once again to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and, of course, the whole team for this report. The Court of Auditors report has, like the Griss report, found a multi-organ failure. It can be summarized that there was a multi-organ failure in the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, the Financial Market Supervision and the FIMBAG. The two reports are quite in agreement, and I think that is also a basis on which we shall have to look at the final report of the Hypo-Research Committee. Lack of transparency, lack of documentation, insufficient audit and insufficient action – these are the main criticisms that are also reflected in the Court of Auditors report. We have heard many different, many divergent opinions today. There is agreement in the fact that this hypo scandal hits the Austrian population financially as much as no other scandal, as no other debacle. That's what it's all about, I think, but also with the oneness. However, it is not unlikely that this hypo scandal, this hypo-debakel, will cost up to €16 billion. 8 billion € are already, 8 billion € has already cost this hypo scandal. Mr. Finanzminister Hans “Josef” Schelling – we have heard today in his budget speech that he is so called – said in terms of the hypo: a chapter I have inherited from a gentleman with whom I only share my second first name. – So much for the education: Hans Josef Schelling. [[Abg. Wöger: Very funny!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Not funny at all, that's the truth!]] In these days, this Minister of Finance is engaged in finding, among other things, risky speculators and fast profit-based investment funds generously with €10 billion for debt of the Carinthian Hypo that speculators and investment funds have willingly taken over. My colleague and previous speaker, Mr Lugar, has already pointed this out, and some other speakers have already mentioned this in their speech. I also have to turn to the SPÖ: At least not yet understood how this scandal came about, the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, has come to be. Especially in the last few days and even today in the speeches, there is a loud yelling: Haider's the culprit! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this claim is not only cheap, but also simply wrong and not worthy of looking at the one and a half years of committee of inquiry. That's wrong and can't be stopped like this! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] The SPÖ proposes to Haider, then head of state, to assume liability for the Landesbank Hypo Alpe-Adria; Liability, as they used to be – and not only then, but now – in all the federal states. The previous speakers have already mentioned these liabilities to the banks in all the federal states. [[Abg. Wöginger: But not in this height!]] [[Abg. Hanger: The tenfold of the national budget!]] In Vienna, for example, the SPÖ also assumes liability for the municipal central savings bank, which is now part of Bank Austria. Just as the Wiener SPÖ assumes liability, Carinthia has also assumed liability for its Landesbank. You've got to stick to the truth! Proposing truth: The SPÖ was not only involved in all decisions concerning liability in Carinthia, but also agreed. Stealing from responsibility is not all right! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] In particular, I would like to refer to the 2004 Landtag Decision, where further liability was decided. This Decision was adopted unanimously. The two Green Members also voted in favour of this, and in the short debate there was not even a word message, not even an interlocutory call. [[Abg. Kogler: But there has been decided to terminate the liability!]] We should also discuss these facts here, and this should be borne in mind by the spectators. It should not only be illuminated one side, but everything. The truth is also reasonable. [[Abg. Kogler: It's just not right!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The emergence of the debacle and the resulting burden on taxpayers are primarily responsible for the bank's management. The Bank Boards have generously supported and credited dubious real estate projects in Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and other countries with their crazy strategy. The problem only occurred when the credit repayments from the many windy real estate projects became less and less. That's where the problem occurred. This hypo problem was completely independent of the financial crisis, one has to say here. Then, Finance Minister Pröll came and initially put €900 million of equity capital into the mortgage, under the cover that this is about a bank that needs to be helped, financial crisis et cetera. However, this has not had anything to do with the fact that the losses of the hypo would have occurred so and so because of these risk operations and the lending in the real estate sector I mentioned earlier. In the night of December 2009, the so-called "Emergency Nationalization" was added. The Minister of Finance was poorly prepared – badly prepared, one can also say. He has just been on vacation on Mauritius, returned, quickly sat down and took over the bank in a Ho-ruck action. He took the Austrians away with them with extremely high loads and took away all the loans that were in the BayernLB – no advice, no security, nothing! And who decided, who agreed, who said yes? – The former SPÖ chancellor Faymann has decided to do all of this and has, as it were, made the wall. What do we have today? – Faymann is gone, Pröll is gone, they are no longer in office. Who's still in office? – The Austrian taxpayers who have to pay good billions for this scandal, for this megadebakel that has caused red and black. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6934	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Kogler. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e6968	Mr President. It was claimed by the previous speaker here that 2004 had been decided in the Carinthian Landtag – literally, on that matter – the liability. [[Abg. Donate: “More ”!]] [[Abg. Lugar: “More ”!]] The point is that 2004 was the only land day decision to date that has decided to terminate the liability – albeit with transitional periods, on the basis of pressure from all Austrian heads of state. [[Abg. Lugar: “More, ” she said!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7064	Next speaker: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7112	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! If the previous speakers, especially those of the government parties, were to be heard, they would be surprised to see if they were sitting in front of the TV yesterday, whether they might have seen the "ZIB 2" and whether they were primarily listening to Mr Pilgermair’s statement. I looked at it and could not hear any debt allocations to the FPÖ. I don't know in which universe ÖVP and SPÖ live. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless: Mrs Tamandl asked before a single speaker from us was at the speaker's desk, and, of course, the FPÖ assumes responsibility for having agreed with the liability. But what I have not yet heard is a confession to the liability of the SPÖ, a confession of the ÖVP and also of the Greens. I've missed that so far. We insist that we made a mistake there and that these liabilities were not optimal or actually the cancer damage of this entire scandal. However, it is necessary to look at the liability in the context of the time in the 2000s. This has been a general political mistake that was made at the time. The “standard” reported in 2011 on what it looks like with national liability, and at the end of 2011, the Austrian federal states held € 71.5 billion, ladies and gentlemen. If we do this today's scale, it's too much everywhere. Mr Krainer said that you then pressed the stop button. Mr Krainer – who is unfortunately not in the room now – where has the stop button been pressed by the SPÖ at the Bank Burgenland? Where has it been printed at the municipal credit or at the BAWAG? I would have liked to hear from a representative of the SPÖ what has been done there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, when you think about the level of liability, you should look at Vorarlberg. In 2011, Vorarlberg had liabilities of €6.3 billion at a national budget of €1.5 billion. So, too, one simply has to conclude that the handling of liabilities in the 2000s was negligent and incorrect, and all political parties should also take responsibility for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I would like to make a specific commitment to the Committee and, above all, to the social democratic parallel universe, because we really have been dealing with Phase I for a very long time in the Committee, and it was, I think, a horse from Mr Krainer that he absolutely wanted to achieve the following: Mr. Landesführer Haider blamed himself on the hypo scandal. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it was partly really adventurous what we had to experience there. We have already discussed almost paranormal phenomena, in which the head of state might have intervened in the bank in 2009 and still controlled the bank from the beyond. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, so cheap it is absolutely not possible to do it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do you know what's remained of this whole Hider hunt? – A letter that can still be seen in the Gazettes, which is still seen on television today in some way as a screenshot: a letter in which a head of state writes to the Minister of Finance that he is satisfied with the fact that a government hat is taking place on the Landesbank and that this is detrimental to the bank’s business conduct. – This is a summary of the content of this letter that you are selling as a great scandal. I would like to give you another example to deal with the ÖVP a little bit, if you only talk about the influence of national leaders in banking or in authorities: There was, for example, the incident at Casino Baden in 2014, where the head of Lower Austria Erwin Pröll applied the head of the FMA Pribil with the following comment: ‘The FMA’s approach is not a sourry that he, Pröll, does not like; Pribil owes it to the ÖVP alone that he is sitting in the central bank, without a party he would be nothing. Pribil got up to calm Pröll, which, however, brought it up even more.” – We all know Pröll. – “Pröll threatened: He will ensure that Pribil doesn’t sit in the central bank for long, and at all he will ensure that Pribil and Helmut Ettl (FMA board member since 2008) no longer get a job in this country.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is an intervention into the authorities, which is an intervention into the National Bank, and in reality that is the huge scandal, like national leaders, also dealing with banks and supervisory bodies. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to deal with the contents of the Committee, which are exactly what has happened, especially after the nationalization, where the Reds have not said much to this point until now. There were red and black networks without end, ladies and gentlemen. One has spent 256 million € for consultants. Why has this not been explained by Red and Black today? Do we want to go into some detail? – Mr Alon Shklarek has been given – to the SPÖ; Business contacts with Mr. Gusenbauer – who has received €4.8 million of fees for the corruption of the Hypo-Consultants Group. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Wöginger and Lausch.]] Then, by chance, there is a lawyer who should be known to the so-called red half of the empire, namely Mr Lansky: You have a lot to do with Mr Lansky, he is also the party attorney. He has received €1.8 million for consultants' activities. – Although he was on a grey list, that is, before the nationalization already advised the bank or was in a contractual relationship with the bank, he was then again occupied with intervention – three times you may guess, by whom – by your clubman, who is rightly not here today, by State Secretary arbitration. Also very exciting, which money has been pushed through the area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöger:... Ettl!]] [[Abg. Lausch:... Haider, Haider, Haider!]] Then there was another consultant company, the company CIN of Thomas Havranek, son of grey eminence in the SPÖ Wien Günther Havranek. There was also a very, very considerable amount, a very, very considerable advisor's fee, and that for a company with only 11 employees. [[Abg. Listen, they don't know that anymore!]] Very interesting what went on there. – Faymann and arbitration: Both have assigned their cabinets to ensure that these orders are awarded. [[Abg. You have forgotten that!]] A particularly exciting consultant was also the ex-communication head of SPÖ Heinz Lederer. It has also been forgotten that he has received 456 000 € fees for activities within the Hypo Alpe-Adria. So we can already say that close-to-party friends of red and black have been very, very well served – as have ÖVP State Secretary Mahrer, whom we saw today at the budget speech: He has, for example, accepted a lobbying commission, which has been lobbyed against FMA and against the head of state Haider, while at the same time ensuring that the ÖVP has a good appearance in the upcoming country election. He, Secretary of State Mahrer, has done this with €72 000 in gold with his company. And if we're talking about gold, we still have an ex-Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer: He gave a very, very great talk evening – I don't know how long he took. It is alleged that he was not so long, but he charged 18 300 € for one evening, i.e. social democratic redistribution. – In total, Gusenbauer has received €84,000 for consultations, where we still do not know what it is about. It is really remarkable that in the whole environment of the hypo, very, very many people from the ÖVP have been employed in significant places. For example, I would just like to refer to the replacement of the SPÖ-nearly Supervisory Board Bussfeld, which was then exchanged against Dr. Moser on the intervention of the Black Ederer from the GRAWE. At the same time, Pribil, of which we had just heard about how he was referred to by the head of state Pröll in his charming manner, was in the FMA. He was also a black player in this game. The Chairman of the credit committee Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Penkner – you should know that too – who, above all, has granted the problematic loans in the Balkans, is also to be attributed to the ÖVP. In November 2007, the ÖVP Landesrat Martinz was Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Landes-Participation Holdinging. You should know that too, and you should not always bend the truth just as you need it. The fact that Mr ÖVP Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger then joined a German advisor in February 2014, who collected up to €100 000 in the month and finished his contract only in January 2015, is only more a marginal note. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we should not look into these consultants – a request from Mr Angerer proves this – is the real scandal in this committee of inquiry, because I would be very interested in what party channels these 260 million € have been flown into. I think that we must now draw a conclusion from this hypo-research committee, but we should still look at where these 260 million €, which have mainly been flown into the cash registers of red and black consultants, actually came. What does that look like?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7277	Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7298	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Allow me to begin by trying to raise my eye, especially the look of Mr Hafenecker and Mr Schenk. [[Abg. Jarolim: This has been a terrible look from the colleague Schenk!]] Col. Schenk, Landeshuptmann was Jörg Haider. He had the function of the national financial officer. That's what he had...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7327	Mr Jarolim! This is a limit, that is to say, they are personally attacking. Don't do that, please. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Excuse me, Mrs Greiner! - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7357	Let's try again: Mr Schenk, Jörg Haider was the head of state, he was a national financial officer, and thus he had a clear political responsibility, namely the control function. He didn't notice her, it's proven. The liability... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donate.]] . We have taken a decision, yes, regarding the expiry of the liability. It was never the talk of a liability height. We have contributed – and we are fully behind it – that the liabilities will end. This is the reality you negate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Hafenecker, allow me to try, as far as your eyes are concerned, to bring about an intensification. [[Abg. Hafenecker: He's already sharp, I've got glasses!]] It is already a bit cool to compare the Bank Burgenland and the BAWAG with the hypo. [[Abg. Hafenecker: And the comparison with the municipal credit...?]] – Well, this comparison is cool. Why is he cool? – Bank Burgenland, BAWAG: There was no federal euro. We took over liability, but we did not put in a federal euro. This is an essential difference to the hypo. So much for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: And the municipal credit?]] Allow me to come to the investigation committee on the hypo that is ending today. What distinguishes this Committee of Inquiry? – It was set up in accordance with a new Rules of Procedure; it was the one with most meetings and consultation days and the one with the most extensive subject matter of investigation. Unfortunately, we had to investigate the largest financial debacle in the Second Republic. What was the goal? – The aim was to clarify political responsibility; criminal aspects were and are still the subject of numerous judicial proceedings. It was only recently that a former finance representative from the Federal Republic of Carinthia, I am speaking of Mr Dobernig, was sentenced. [[Abg. Krainer: A blue one too!]] Not only the Members, but also the journalists, have proved veritable endurance, expressed high interest, reported on the events in the Committee and informed the public. During the duration of the investigation committee, I was often addressed and asked: What's going on? What do the informers say? Is it even possible to clarify political responsibility? – Yes, it has succeeded in clarifying this responsibility. Although the 124 persons showed significant memory gaps at times, thanks to our specific and consistent questions, one thing has been very clear: The cause of this unprecedented disaster lies clearly and undisputed in the immensely high national liabilities – € 24.7 billion in 2006; that was the highlight, more than tenfold of the national budget. The surveys have confirmed that the national liabilities were the business model of the hypo. Only in this way was their rapid expansion possible at all. In return, juicy commissions flowed into the Landeskassen. What happened to it? – The responsible financial referents have fully spent the money and financed prestige projects. Allow me to remind you of the sea stage, the airline, the football stadium. The financial referents Haider, Pipefenberger, Dobernig had the control responsibility. They could have pressed the stop button, but de facto did not do it and therefore did not assume their responsibility in any way. On the contrary, you have maximized the risk for taxpayers. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] What are the consequences of this Committee of Inquiry? – I would also refer to the Court of Auditors’ report on this subject, in which such recommendations are also reflected. There is no need for a uniform liability ceiling across the country. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Yes!]] Although the Austrian Stability Pact has committed itself to restricting its liability, which has not succeeded in agreeing the general government ceiling between the local authorities, it has led to the fact that we currently have 17 different systems in the federal states – 17 different systems! There is a clear need for action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] There is also a need for a ban on speculation for communities. While it is regulated in an Article 15a agreement that countries should not speculate, uniform application would require that this ban is also enshrined in the financial constitution. It would also ensure that municipalities are actually included. Ladies and gentlemen, the hypo scandal has caused responsible FPÖ politicians in Carinthia. Our task is to protect taxpayers from such barriers and to prevent such scandals from repeating. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7499	Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7528	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have two reports in the negotiations, the report of the Hypo-Research Committee and also the report of the Court of Auditors. As a member of the Court of Auditors, I would like to deal mainly with the Court of Auditors' report. This concerns mainly the question: Was this emergency nationalization necessary, or was it not necessary? – From the liberal side sometimes comes somehow so salopp: Well, that wasn't necessary, it shouldn't have been! – If we now want to assess the need for national emergency relief, we have to consider the question: What was the economic situation of the Bank in 2009, at the time of emergency nationalisation? – And it is quite clear that the economic situation was disastrous. That is to say, regardless of the owner’s question, a massive expansion rate has been achieved over 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, but at the same time the losses have increased accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rauch.]] In 2008, a balance sheet loss of €472 million and a loss of €1.4 billion in 2009. Then there are two options: Either the company is so strong in the equity situation that it can compensate for these losses, or it is not strong in the equity situation – as was the case with our bank – then, of course, the owners have to resume capital. When the owners announce: No, we are no longer going to capital!, of course, there is a risk of insolvency – that says one of the most classic economic house minds – and it was necessary to avoid insolvency: for the Austrian financial centre, for the European financial centre. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] [[Abg. Listen:... Insolvency!]] We were at the height of the financial and economic crisis, this will always be forgotten, and of course there was a huge risk in the background for the Federal Republic of Carinthia. The Federal State of Carinthia – which was also expressed by the previous speaker Kucher – simply send it into bankruptcy? – The situation is not that simple! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. It's funny.]] This would have had far-reaching consequences, and the financial responsibility was with the Federal Government. You did the right thing. This emergency stateization was alternatively non-existent. Many aspects have then been discussed in the Hypo-Research Committee, why this has come so far. There are many, many aspects: the role of the owner, the role of bank management, the role of the Supervisory Board, the Internal Revision, the regulatory audit bodies, the financial market supervision, the OeNB, of course, also the role of auditors and the question of why they have tested for so long. You can discuss a lot of things there. The right conclusions have been drawn, and many things have been put on the right path, but it remains undisputed that the liability of the country of Carinthia was the cause and reason for these major problems in the bank, and, Mr Hafenecker, I have rarely heard such a clear admission of guilt. They have explicitly said that the country of Carinthia is responsible for these country's liability under the leadership of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Angerer: (holding a pile of printed paper in height) Read your report! Read your own report!]] And, Mr Hafenecker, we already have to distinguish between the liabilities that one gives to a credit institution or the liabilities that one gives for example for housing financing. These are quite, very big differences! And ten times the national budget for liability, that only happened in Carinthia, and that is clearly the responsibility of the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What I want to mention, what has happened in recent years, were three milestones for me: This is the Rehabilitation Act for banks, in order to create at all the basis for the possible participation of creditors – I can remind myself of the speeches of the opposition parties that all this does not work, that it is not possible; in the meantime it is reality – the general comparison with the Bavaria was very important in order to create legal certainty as well, and very important was the recently closed comparison with the creditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rauch]] There is really thanks to our Federal Minister of Finance Schelling for this hard work for Austria, and the fact remains that we and Federal Finance Minister Schelling had to remove the rubble caused by the Freedom Party. That's it!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7638	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7660	It's a shame that our colleague, Mr. FPÖ, is not in the house. I would like to ask him how this is: There is a FPÖ member of the court who is suspected of signature forgery and whose immunity has been removed. FPÖ-Kickl, however, introduces himself to the media and says: Even in the event of a conviction, he retains his mandate. – I wonder: Is this the understanding of the FPÖ of conscience and morality? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! See, this is also the reason why we stand here today and treat the Hypo Committee because you and your FPÖ have put a Landesbank in the sand and, as you can see, nothing but really nothing, dear colleagues from the FPÖ, have learned from it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: This is terrifying!]] But what surprises me a lot more, and admittedly also annoys me, is that you, that is, the members of the FPÖ, are still not prepared to acknowledge that it was FPÖ ministers, FPÖ financial advisers and a FPÖ head of state who initiated the disaster and still bear responsibility for it, and that the government's way out of the debacle was no easier but ultimately the only right one. When do you really really have the consequences as a FPÖ? I would like to make it clear again at this point, as it was possible, that this blue hypo-debakel has adopted this inconceivable dimension at all. In 1999, Haider will become the head of state and appoint former FP countryman Karl Pipefenberger as the Finance Minister. In 2000, FPÖ-Grasser will become Minister of Finance. Grasser, on the other hand, appoints his cabinet employee Kanduth-Kristen as the State Commissioner in 2002. In 2003, Josef Christl was appointed to the OeNB Executive Board, where he was responsible for banking supervision. Previously, he was an auditor – who knows the answer? – active in the Cabinet Grasser. In 2004, former Head of Office Haider and FPÖ club director Josef Moser became President of the Court of Auditors. Two months later, Heinrich Traumüller – the Chief of Cabinet at Karl-Heinz Grasser – changed to the FMA Board of Directors. In 2005 the auditor was then Karl-Heinz Moser Supervisory Board Chairman. In 2005, the links between the Bank and the KLH’s Carinthian Landesholding were intensified by the appointment of Reinhard Zechner and Hans-Jörg Megymorez, who was still in charge of the HBInt’s accounting department until 2007. In 2007, the board of directors of the KLH was supplemented by Gert Xander, and later the blue financial officer Dobernig, who has already been legally condemned. In the end, the entire supervision of the bank – and that is the jumping point – is blue in color and is systematically mouth-deaded. Only by this could the catastrophe take this immense form. It's not about 1, 2, 3 or 4 billion euros, it's about over 20 billion euros of damage risk. To illustrate this sum: If you knit 10 €-shoes together, this results in a distance of 1 340 kilometers. Colleagues from the FPÖ, especially for you, so that you can imagine this more easily: This is four times the Vienna–Bärental route. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Have you already done this with the municipal credit?]] We speak clearly – and this has been clearly demonstrated by the Committee – of a FPÖ-debakel. With proper supervision, all of this could not have happened. The In the letter from Haider to Grasser, he writes that FMA's executives, who were very useful before, should be exchanged because they began to ask uncomfortable questions. The truth is that FPÖ has the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic on conscience. But you obviously do not have a conscience, for otherwise you would finally come out and apologize to the people in that country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7729	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7751	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Around the publication of the Griss report, the image of the Greek tragedy around the hypo scandal was repeatedly drawn in the media. I would also like to build up my remarks in this way: three files, which, by the way, cover up with the phases which we have also dealt with in the Committee of Inquiry, with two breaks and two hopes. The first act: the time until 2007, the Carinthian time, characterized by criminal machinations, toothless supervision, national liability, exaggerating risk and political influence in the bank; leading: the FPÖ. Then the second act: the time of Bavaria. I can remember cults when he said: When the Bayern got into the boat, so to speak, he had the hope that it would get better with the bank and go uphill. But unfortunately, the second act found itself again: criminal machinations, toothless supervision, rising national liability, exaggerating risk, political influence; leading: the FPÖ. Then the third act: the nationalization. I really have to hold this place: She was important, and she was right. In the third act as the main actor: our then Minister of Finance Maria Fekter. What were the characteristics? – Unfortunately, the bank remains advisory and reform-resistant. New business is being done, which is no better than the old business, and cooperation with the owner, the Republic of Austria, and with the European Union is far from being sufficient. What's left under the line? – I am grateful for Mr Kogler’s statement that a great deal has happened in recent years. Nevertheless, it will be important to launch further reforms in the supervision of banks, including the state commissioners and, of course, also in the cooperation of banks with auditors. In this sense, I thank you very much for the interesting and constructive cooperation in these many meetings and remain with the motto: Such a scandal as the hypo must never happen again! - Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7791	The next speaker is Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7812	Mr President. Estimated citizens at the gallery! Dear Colleagues! Not all two years ago, we jointly launched a new chapter on parliamentary control, thus taking a major step towards greater transparency and openness of policy, but also political decisions. Establishing investigation committees as minority law, including complementary procedural amendments, was undoubtedly the right way, and I am glad that I was able to contribute here. After the last few months, it is clear that an investigation committee does not necessarily have to go to the party-political show stage or be sacrificed personality rights on the media altar. It is also clear that forthcoming committees of inquiry can build on the experience of the last 20 months. As a substitute member of the committee, I had the opportunity to gain important insights and to participate in the investigation. However, it has already been made clear in the previous speeches – and I am speaking specifically of Mr. Lugar, but also Mr. Hafenecker – that the will for Enlightenment has often turned away from competition with one another. In part, it would have been desirable in this debate today in plenary as well as in the committee of inquiry itself. As far as some ministries are concerned, it should now be clear that it is not appropriate in the sense of the Enlightenment and, hopefully, no longer happens in the future, that files are blackened, but that one has to keep to certain classification levels. What has the revision of the Causa Hypo by the Investigation Committee actually brought us? – A central aspect is that we can now make a complete report of how such a failure could have occurred in such a number of supervisory bodies. Through targeted party political occupations, parts of the state and federal supervision were removed. Person carousel with roots in the Carinthia Free movement overshadowed the most important feature of functioning control, namely ensuring independence. Where to look – Finance Representative, Federal Ministry of Finance under Mr Grasser, State Commissioner, President of the Court of Auditors, FMA Board and, and, Almost all the supervision was occupied by Grasser and Haider and their confidants. In my opinion, independence seems to be quite different. [[Abg. Hafenecker: The Grasser has been on the board since 2002 at ÖVP!]] What do we learn from it? – It is now our political responsibility to address the structural but also legal deficits made clear by the Causa Hypo. As Mrs Bures has said, we must not be surprised by the criminal energies. We must do everything we can to prevent such transactions. With the statutory audit law this year, we have ensured that for two years after checking an undertaking of public interest, an examiner may no longer take a leading position within that company. And after ten years... [[Abg. Lichtenecker: After ten years!]] – Of course, I am right for my colleague Lichtenecker to say that a streamlining would of course be desirable, but after ten years of auditing of a company, it must also be changed. These are the facts. This has already happened this year, and this is a positive direction. [[Abg. Kogler: But that's too long!]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: Six years!]] However, we also need to focus on the fact that banks and especially those in majority state ownership are not allowed to conduct highly speculative transactions in order to maximize their profits. There is a need for an absolute ban on speculation in this area, as Mr Greiner has already pointed out. On the other hand, the supervision of these banks should be extended at both national and European level, and their independence must be kept free and secure from network disruptions, as we have seen them from Carinthia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7896	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e7917	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! If you have spent 100 days in this committee of inquiry, you will of course be asked at home, in the constituency or wherever you go: So, what's going to come out? The money's gone anyway! People are actually expecting, at least those who always talk to me about political responsibility. For Parliament's investigative committee, we are not justice, we have to clarify: What is the political responsibility? I would like to say something at the front, because you know today, he hasn't been there, he wasn't there, he was there a little bit or not at all: No matter which party in Carinthia, no one can wash their hands in innocence on the subject of Hypo! At some point, every party, whether green, red or black, was at one time under the leadership of freedom. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Such a fool, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, some not on the side of the Enlightenment!]] If every political group presents it today, according to its own report, which has been attached, I will stick to the report prepared by an independent judge, in accordance with the new rules of the committee of inquiry. We should actually discuss this and take note of it, whether it is appropriate or not, of course, these are the new rules for the Committee of Inquiry, which provide for an independent judge as a court of procedure. I stick to the political responsibility, to the report by Mr Pilgermair. Let's be honest: What and when was the origin of the evil? – We all know that, the Griss report has already said quite clearly: These were the liability decisions in the government in autumn 2003 and in the government in spring 2004 and in the Kärntner Landtag. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: That's not true, Mr. Cot.]] And if today it is claimed that all the federal states in Austria had taken the same decision up to two, that is simply not right, but the Carinthian decision has been averted. I have the act of government here, wherever it stands inside. With us the decision has also stated: unlimited and for all legal successors, for divisions and their successors. [[Abg. Kogler: Logical!]] The unlimited liability and “for all legal successors ” were the great evil. In the years 2004 to 2006, there was, as we know, a FPÖ/SPÖ government in Carinthia, the adoption of the decision in the government, the unanimous decision in the Kärntner Landtag. We also know that from 2004 to 2006 the liabilities increased to over €10 billion. And you have to say something about it: The main responsibility for this – and it cannot be cheated, I also say, and one has to stand for it – has taken place in time under a liberal head of state, under a free financial officer and under a freedom of supervision commissioner in the Hypo, who has had all insight and all rights there. The majority of this has once happened to the SPÖ, once with the ÖVP, and in the Carinthian Landtag it was decided with all the political groups, also with the Greens. Also, the nationalization, which is so condemned by the liberals who would never have been necessary after them – we know that exactly a hundred percent, and therefore I do not stand out in this direction – which would never have been possible if not the Carinthian liberals had supported them at the time, even with the voice and most positive words of the then Clubobmann representative and current Council of State in Carinthia, Mr Darmann. Without the liberals in Carinthia, this nationalization would never have been possible. You all know that very well. Two more sets of political responsibility. How will we be in the future, when another committee of inquiry comes to deal with this and how will we explain it to the people outside if that is all we have done here today: Packing up and going home, damage has arisen – political responsibility zero!Unknown term type: "%s".? In Carinthia, there are five people in the Carinthian state government who, in any decision, had the power to give the bank's experts the opportunity to hate them unlimitedly and basically bring Carinthia to the fore. How do the political leaders deal with this? One of the Freedom Party still sits in the Federal Council, you sent one back to Carinthia, probably because too much came out of it. He's in the government now. The Greens know exactly which of them is in the government. [[Abg. Lightenecker: The Holub was always with the reconnaissances!]] The Stronach team has also talked about political responsibility. Today's chairman of the Stronach team, Mr Köfer, then had his hand on top of the SPÖ. I am excited when you here again ask for a committee of inquiry to explain this to the people if you do not take political responsibility from this committee of inquiry. After all, you are unbelievable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8040	Mr Lipitsch, next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8061	Mr President. Madam President. Carinthia is rich. These words know, I think, everyone inside here. And we've been in the investigation committee looking for where Carinthia is rich. We have actually found a sum of criminal energy, incompetence, but also control failure. If we conclude this investigation committee today, I believe it is important that we draw lessons from it. Certain points have already been implemented, we are already discussing certain points. The reason for this disaster, which has come so far, has been clearly defined in the Committee of Inquiry, which has been discussed very often today. The colleague Hafenecker said this himself: The real reason was the liability. If you, Mr. Hafenecker, have started to throw nebula grenades and try everything you can: That may have worked at the time with Mr Haider, not anymore. I do not believe that even the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will not believe in the fact that I can see who your group is still talking about. This has not worked quite well that one simply wants to push away responsibility for it and push others away. I would just like to say: It has always been said that the financial leaders were Pipeberger, Haider and Dobernig during this time. Two of them have a judgment. And I think if we look back in this Republic, there was no time yet, in the politicians who were in charge were condemned as often as at this time when the liberals in the country and in the Federation held responsibility. However, I would like to say one more thing if it says: Control. The financial controllers of the country, these three mentioned, had the responsibility to look into the hypo and say: Now there is no more liability! And the comparison of the four-fold liability with the twelve-fold liability already hurts me a little, because at some point I have to see that the door is no longer going on, and I have to forbid that. I would also like to add the following: It has not been submitted for three years by the financial officer of the Freedom Party in the Carinthian Landtag. And today to criticize the fact that there may have been no criticism there and there, although criticism has come, but on the other hand, I do not think that what is provided by law is not correct. Finally, I would like to make one last point, which was only two days ago; I take it as an admission of the Freedom Party: She did not apologize, but at least she did not speak in the Carinthian Landtag. She had nothing to say that there is a solution for Carinthia that Carinthia has a future again. It was the head of the state Emperor and the finance councillor Gabi Schaunig who negotiated this pact with the Federation. And when my colleague, Lausch, asks: What was your performance?, then I'll tell you: Our performance was to save Carinthia! because this disaster bears a name, and that is: FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8109	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8131	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! So, with all due respect and appreciation, Mr Obernosterer, but I wonder about the Hypo-Research Committee, where you have been for the last 20 months. It is true, rather, that the origin of these liabilities is in 1990. In 1990 the Kärntner Landtag decided exactly that with the votes of FPÖ, ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Abg. Krainer: The origin is in 1892!]] In 2004, it was decided to terminate the liability, Mr Cot. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Introduction of the Crown-Currency!]] And one thing is still here: Yes, Holub has done good work, especially in bringing hypo light into the dark and in carrying out appropriate information.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8195	Mr Fichtinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8216	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you cannot agree on classical education: De mortuis nil nisi bene – about the dead nothing but good. Unfortunately, it's not always that easy. If we debate the reports before us today at the conclusion of the Hypo-U Committee, we can hold as a summary: The new form of the U Committee has proved itself. We have heard a lot of information for 20 months, we have seen a lot of documents, and, I think, all of them draw the necessary conclusions, namely going to what is not to be repeated in this respect in the future and never happen again. But what I would like to take out here as a partial aspect is that the U Committee is a political instrument. It is not a substitute for the law enforcement authorities and the courts and their activities. It is quite right – Mr Hable has always stressed this issue – to find out where the money has remained, but this is the task of the investigators, the prosecutors and the courts. And the Causa Hypo, as we all know, has not been completed by criminal law for a long time, not even in all its numerous facets – as much as many where the FPÖ has been responsible. I would like to take an example – and I am returning to the input quote – of the Causa Birnbacher, the negotiating mandate that Mr Birnbacher received at the time, who was formally incompetent, whose qualifications were not recoverable for us, and who charged € 12 million for a six-page opinion, and then granted a so-called patriot discount of 50 percent, i.e. only € 6 million for this opinion. 1 million € per page! The Public Prosecutor's Office, Klagenfurt, considered this to be thirty times higher than that. The outcome of the whole, the outcome of the negotiations, in which Mr Birnbacher was involved, did not solve the problem of national liability, but the loss of any control and control possibilities in the bank. And the subsequent investigations into party donations and claims of guilt can be assumed to be known. Who was also involved in this next to Mr Martinz was Jörg Haider. And you won't be able to wipe that off the table.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8258	The next speaker is Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8280	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today we are discussing the final reports of a committee of inquiry, which is based on a century-old disaster. A state government, a party that has used a bank like a ATM, has taken over 25 billion liabilities, ten times its own national budget, has shown political responsibility, and thus has thrown a country into a situation that has put the Carinthias in great danger. [[Abg. Hafenecker: How about the Multiversum!]] And the FPÖ is responsible for this! [[Call the FPÖ:Multiversum! How high are the liability in Schwechat at present?]] The Committee of Inquiry itself: I consider it politically, especially as a parliamentarian, quite important that the establishment of an investigation committee became a minority right. I see this in such a way that we, as Parliament, are also very serious and self-confident. An investigative committee is an instrument to define, identify and identify political responsibilities – and not to play justice. I have also experienced in a number of meetings that some of my colleagues have confused the committee room with a courtroom. I believe that it should also be learned that this is not the role of such a committee, but that we focus on political responsibility. But now on the content priorities. Firstly, the takeover of horrendous national liability in Carinthia: How did this actually work, and how is there such a thing that is increased without any discussion about it? – By simply never setting up reports or accounts and thus predominating transparency to the infinite and also failing to monitor and control. This was an interplay between the responsible politicians of the FPÖ/BZÖ Carinthia and a bank, which has completely distanced itself from its original tasks, and has tried to take a foothold on the international financial market. Second, sale to Bavaria: Carinthia, as Mr Lipitsch has already mentioned, did not become rich – at the time the state captain claimed – but Carinthia held the total risk of €23.1 billion in liabilities. Yeah, then the Bavaria wanted to get rid of the bank again. There were two ways: Carinthias in insolvency and therefore completely inability to pay in the second – schools should have closed down, hospitals would have collapsed, and thus the daily life of people would have been threatened – or, second, the nationalization. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: such a nonsense, please!]] And so it was the solution with the slightest damage. But again: The origin of the entire miser was in the years before, namely in the time of the head of state Haider and Co. In conclusion: What do we need? – Openly said: It is necessary, in the policy of questioning the position of banks in our society as well as their tasks. Landebanks, which are clearly state-owned, must again focus on their core tasks, namely to enable favourable loans for individuals and businesses – and away from all speculations. In other words, we urgently need a ban on speculation, national liability restrictions and even better controls at national and European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8340	Mr Christ. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8361	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Let me begin with a positive start, with two thanks: on the one hand to our Group spokesperson Kai Jan Krainer, who has done an excellent job and on the other hand to Georg Ortner, who has been very committed and excellently supported by our entire team. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] Thank you for your support! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] A second big thank you, ladies and gentlemen, goes to the Carinthians. They have elected Peter Kaiser as the head of state and thus allowed an opportunity for a re-start of national policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] He does the best possible work together with his team, and of course we still wish everything good for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The Hypo-Research Committee was important and correct. He was at no time a substitute court hearing, but always an instrument for examining the political responsibility for this unimaginable debacle and this more than clear failure of free government responsibility. Not everything has gone around in the last 20 months, but it was a new form of the Committee of Inquiry and an intensive load test for all parties involved. We draw the lessons and the right conclusions from them and correct the necessary things. But more than clearly it turned out: The inability of economic thinking and action and the proven economy of friendship within the Haider regime and its political successors are looking for the same in the history of Austria. This irresponsible doing has brought Carinthia to the edge of the ruin, caused great damage to the Republic and forced all taxpayers to pay the figures. And never again can anything like this happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The obviously completely false interpretation of the medieval proverb “Hear, see and be silent if you want to live in peace” – and you all certainly know the visualization of this proverb – must never be the guiding principle of political action. For the time being, the FPÖ has proved that it is the best in the opposition with the terms of responsibility and control over war feet. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8431	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Kraker, has now spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8452	Mr President. High house! The debate here shows me that you have been sufficiently concerned about the events surrounding the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank and are also very aware of the scope. But in addition to the report of the National Council's Committee of Inquiry, there is also a report from the Court of Auditors on the nationalization of the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank. This report by the Court of Auditors goes back to a request from Members Kogler, colleagues and colleagues of June 2013, and we have presented the results which were also discussed in the Committee last week. I would also like to forward to all of you: The Court of Auditors shall be responsible for financial control. Political control is here with you in the House, and I have nothing to say and nothing to add to it. The June 2013 examination request was based on 17 questions and we have addressed them in the context of this examination. The objectives of the study were to present the economic situation of Hypo Alpe-Adria International, to assess the impact of nationalisation on the public budget, to assess the feasibility of the approach and the contractual design of the rescue measure, and to assess the course of the EU aid procedure. It did not include an assessment of the Court of Auditors of alternative emergency measures. The review period ended with the nationalisation in December 2009. In addition, further questions and legal assessments, including ongoing procedures, were not the subject of the audits. Two main statements just briefly: The flat-rate country liability for the liabilities of Hypo Alpe-Adria International and the change of ownership in 2007 – Carinthia sold to BayernLB – favoured the expansion of the balance sheet amount to €43.3 billion by the end of 2008. The liabilities were the basis for the expansion of the business policy of the Hypo, and they played a decisive role in the negotiations on nationalization. Secondly, Information asymmetries have been developed through the wide range of involved Federal Offices – BMF, FIMBAG, Oesterreichische Nationalbank and Financial Market Supervision. In the nationalisation of Hypo International, the information situations of these four institutions were relevant. Thus, the Oesterreichische Nationalbank and thus financial market supervision were better and earlier informed of existing shortcomings than FIMBAG and the BMF. A guide to a coordinated approach to information networking did not exist. Furthermore, I do not want to go into the test report now. I just want to say that as the new President, I want to look to the future. All of us here in the House agree that such misdevelopment should not happen at the expense of the public and a threat to the sustainability of the public hand. For this reason, the Court of Auditors has also recommended to the Ministry of Finance, as a consequence of the issue of liability, that legal provisions prohibiting local authorities from taking over liabilities that exceed the economic viability of these territorial authorities, in particular those which contribute to the emergence of critical and systemic risks, which may ultimately also lead to an economic compulsory situation of the federal government. In May 2015, the Court of Auditors published a report on the upper limits of liability in the field of countries and municipalities. It has just shown that, despite the agreement under Article 15a B-VG, a general government liability limit had not been established and that there was also a uniform approach to determining the limits of liability and the allocation to risk classes. The Court of Auditors welcomes efforts to find a clear settlement here. In recent years, the Court of Auditors has repeatedly advocated a modern budgetary law for countries and municipalities. The 2015 VRV is now a basis for ensuring transparency in the management of the countries and communities. Both the issue of the upper limits of liability and the issue of implementation and compliance with the stability objectives will be closely monitored by the Court of Auditors, because it is a general government body, in future audits. It will ensure that VRV is fully implemented in countries and communities. As regards the audit competence of the Court of Auditors, I can point out that it is a long-term requirement of the Court of Auditors to reduce the limit for audit competence from 50 per cent to 25 per cent in public undertakings. This also corresponds to comparable rules of competence, as they also have national accounting courts. In the case of the hypo-Alpe-Adria International, the Court of Auditors would have been responsible for the examination in 2006 and would have been able to carry out a follow-up review and would have been able to review and refer to the point of liability commissions presented in its preliminary report. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8497	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We come to the votes, which, as always, are carried out separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Hypo-Inspection Committee to take note of its report 1291 of the Supplements and Appendices. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 3: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-157 of the supplements. Who agrees to this request? – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:55:09]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on the Stoneographic Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on ‘CETA and TTIP – The Free Trade Agreements between the EU and its Member States with Canada and the USA’ (III-305/1275, p.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8557	So we come to the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speech comes from Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8584	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests on the galleries and in front of the televisions! After our survey held a month ago, it could have been thought that the content of the contributions has been included in the policy and that the many most critical opinions on this agreement have led to a change in the political position of the political leaders. This impression has been given, above all, by Mr Bundeskanzler Kern, who has made marked and very clear statements in the last two and a half weeks, rather than just talking about and using fogwords, such as those which also make up the designation of the agreement itself. The agreement – CETA is the abbreviation of the English term for this – is called a comprehensive economic and trade agreement, but it is not – it also gives everyone – but it is a comprehensive regulation of the competences of the two contracting parties. Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern said good things. I only remember the interviews and guest comments he gave in “profile”, “The Standard” and “Kurier”. For example, he said that CETA is “a massive shift in power in favour of global operating groups and at the expense of democratic participation”. – You can't actually say anything about it. Then, in the last issue of the “profile ” of the 8th. October, which appeared on Monday, said something more beautiful. As he said, referring to CETA again: “This is the Rubikon. National sovereignty must be safeguarded, democratic legitimacy is imperative.” In this interview, he said something more beautiful – I do not want to be superfluous now and say that it could almost be mine, but it could actually be mine – that is, the EU and the Commission, which are doing all these negotiations and which promises us the blue one from heaven to secure our jobs in export. To that end, he said: “The EU’s promise of prosperity” – which it has given as its basic element – “has been broken”. – These are strong words! Strong words sometimes follow strong action, but not in the Austrian government coalition. And so it seems unfortunate, because what has the Commission done? . It has produced this paper, this joint statement, this leaflet, between Canada and the European Commission on the content of the agreement, i.e. a presentation explaining what it wants. And soon this paper was taken as the great opportunity to go back from the labeled sayings and say: Yes, we have achieved a lot, now a lot has been clarified and much disillusioned, and Austria has achieved a great success, and now you might agree to CETA! But I invite everyone – in order to use the words of my colleague Pendl, whom he never leaves out, I invite this time – to read this statement, this note and then to assess whether the experts need it to explain what is inside – just as Mr Bundeskanzler said. I do not think so, because first of all many experts, many lawyers, have already expressed themselves, and secondly, it is quite clear that: It says what the agreement also contains. Of course, it is formulated as always obsessive and distorting, but when you read between the lines, it is quite clear. For example, it also says that CETA is the gateway for TTIP or for the US to the European market. [[Abg. Amon:... Canadian companies!]] That's explained as far as the question is concerned – how is it overtitled? – Investment protection inside says that CETA requires it to have an economic link, i.e. an economic link to the Canadian economy... [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: Where does TTIP stand? Read this to me! TTIP!]] – CETA, I'm talking about CETA! – Wait, Mr. Vice chancellor! - Wait, wait, wait! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: You said for TTIP this is the entry door!]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Now read it to me!]] The important thing is to read between the lines and disintegrate things, and I'm trying to do that. [[Ah-rufe and cheerfulness at the ÖVP]] It's in here... – It's not that difficult to read in it. [[Abg. Amon: Of course this is difficult!]] If you stick only to words and headlines, it is very difficult. So it's in here that... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: I also remember the quote: “If you stick to words and headlines only”!]] – If you only adhere to individual words and individual headlines! [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] When you look in there: The Canadian EU Agreement calls for an economic link between the society concerned and Europe to be applied, and this economic link does not exist if it is merely a letterbox company. – This is more or less contained in the agreement, which is only clarified. But what does that mean on the contrary? – So if it doesn't apply to letterbox companies, it probably applies to the rest. In other words, every company that has an economic activity in Canada, which has for example an establishment, starts with General Motors via Microsoft, which has a significant number of facilities there, as a Canadian company, comes to the benefit of CETA through the economic link. This also explains to us very clearly what many claim: CETA is the back door for the economy and the US corporations in the EU. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or if we keep going... [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: It is extra different inside!]] - It's in there! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Exactly different! Such a...!]] – It stands in exactly what does not apply. It does not apply to corporations or companies that do not have an economic link and it does not apply to ‘shell’... [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Read page 5, third paragraph! Read it before!]] – I only have it in English, I don’t want to read it in English now, but I can also translate it. I read it in German, I can translate it as well. The language in Parliament is still German, so I will read it in German. [[Call the ÖVP:I translate according to what I do!]] It's right in here: CETA requires a real economic link with the economic areas of Canada and the European Union so that a company or a company can make use of the agreement, and it excludes – it excludes “and preventions” – that “shell”, that is, we do not use that, that is, mere shells or letter box companies based in Canada or the European Union, are used by investors or other countries to bring claims before the arbitration court against Canada or the European Union. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: To prevent!]] [[Mr Haubner, Mr Amon and Mr Schittenhelm: Yes! That's right! That's right!]] [[Abg. Amon: That's all right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shit helmet.]] That is, these are things that are always clear: that you can't go through the agreement with letterbox companies or get around by simply making a mailbox in Canada, that's clear, but all the other – argumentum e contrario – can, of course. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But with all the others!]] [[Call the FPÖ:But everyone else!]] And that's the important thing: that you get to the bottom of things and read things as they stand behind them, and not just stick to headlines. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] – I’m not apologizing because I think it’s important that the vice chancellor reads between the lines, and if he tells me again: No, no, there's the other one inside! After I read to you, I don't apologize. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: That's why!]] Let us go again to the Right to Regulation, to the right to adopt legal provisions. This is not called into question in the agreement, because the arbitration courts do not provide for the country to be forced to change its legal provisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This right never stands in. What is now being said is that this right to adopt legal provisions is preserved. But let's look into the agreement. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] It's already clear in the second paragraph – well, wait a minute! – that CETA clarifyes – that is the authentic interpretation – that the compensation that an investor receives due to such changes or regulations is limited to the amount of actual damage. [[Abg. Schultes: You've been better already!]] In other words, the investor cannot, as the agreement also provides, require the change of laws, but he can obtain compensation for damages. And now the big placebo is coming: It's limited to the actual damage – well, I don't know any damages in the whole world, which provides that you get more than the actual damage from the title of compensation. And in international trade law, the actual damage also foresees the lost profit. Where's the improvement? – There are many other things you can read from this booklet. What else does the scientist or the expert have to say? – There can only be a clear decision there: If we take seriously what the Chancellor himself has told us, then we must do everything we can to stop this agreement. This is of course also addressed to the SPÖ, which should actually take seriously what the Federal Chancellor has said. Then we cannot help but finally adopt a clear declaration that we will not put this agreement into force as far as it stands in our power. If the Austrian National Council makes it clear now and today: We will not ratify the agreement with the remaining investment protection provisions, then we have taken a peg and shown the flag. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Whether it has an impact on other countries is another thing, but we have at least made the attempt and have not talked about it and have not distributed placebos and not spread sand to the people and said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shot helmet]] Ah, now we have a paper, it's not that bad, now we can agree! Finally, because it's so beautiful, I have to quote Christian Kern again: “National sovereignty must be safeguarded, democratic legitimacy is imperative.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8900	I call Mr Haubner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e8922	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! I would particularly like to welcome, on behalf of my Styrian colleagues, the citizens of the municipality of Stainz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Hübner, I am sure that Mr Vice-Chancellor will also speak accordingly, as has already been said about his reactions. I just want to say: We hardly read between the lines, but we read the lines, and I think that's the most important thing, because that gives the text. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's the mistake!]] I would like to start with a quote from the German Minister for Economic Affairs and SPD Chairman Sigmar Gabriel, who said: “We create reasonable rules for globalisation for the first time.” [[Abg. Themessl: Yes, we do! We know that!]] I would like to join with this and I would also like to say something about it in principle. [[Mr Hauser and Mr Hübner.]] The task of the economy is to build bridges, not to draw graves, and this Canada-Europe trade agreement is such a bridge because there are great opportunities for the Austrian and European economies and thus also for new jobs – we must say that quite clearly. [[Abg. Deimek:... Free trade!]] Actually, it's amazing: We have always had good experience with all the trade agreements we have concluded in the past. They have paid off, the figures show this very clearly. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an export record of more than € 130 billion export volume, we earn € 6 out of 10 abroad, and almost every second job is directly or indirectly dependent on export. So one million jobs in the companies in Austria are dependent on this export, and I think it should not be easy to put at risk, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] In fact, it should also satisfy us Austrians with joy that our products are as in demand throughout the world as never before. These figures clearly show that. Let us take the opportunity to shape globalisation, and let us not watch when the other takes over for us! We need to see a chance in CETA! In 2015 we made exports worth more than one billion euros to Canada, in return the Canadians exported about 440 million euros to Austria. This is a huge opportunity for our technology and innovation-driven companies. That is a very important point, that is very important. [[Abg. Steinbichler: That doesn't stop!]] - You see, I see this completely differently. In addition to a reduction of customs duties, much more can be brought into the design of globalisation by our societies. What would happen if we left the other? Ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of our own approach, and I can say from my constituency, for example, of the company Geislinger: Market leader in vibration technology, 650 employees, family business, exports 98 percent to overseas. Mr Geislinger also said quite clearly: If we do not succeed in constantly strengthening our trade relations with countries like Canada, then the countries of America will increasingly turn to the Pacific area of trade and Europe will increasingly lose market shares and jobs. – We certainly do not want that, ladies and gentlemen, and we must not allow it. CETA offers a strategic opportunity, and we should use it. If two major internal markets, the EU and Canada, set as high standards as in this agreement, it will be difficult for the other trading partners to remain behind these standards. I think that is an essential point. [[Abg. Kogler: What about the precautionary principle?]] Mr Pirklbauer! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Pirkl huber!]] - Pirklhuber! Sorry! But by Profession Bauer? - Yeah, that's right! All right, all right! [[Abg. Pirklhuber nodds.]] [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and NEOS.]] You have to check your credibility a little, too, because on the one hand you always warn about food with minimum standards such as the chlorinated chicken, on the other hand you want to abolish the quality profession of the butcher in the trade order. In our view, this is not quite in keeping with each other. So I have to say quite honestly: We confess to both, on the one hand to the high standards at the agreements and on the other hand to a clear yes to quality and master. I would also like to have said that quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You also have to clean up a little with the fairy tales around CETA. The agreement does not intervene in the provision of services in the area of housing, as is repeatedly claimed. One thing is clear: If the city of Vienna wants to sell Vienna residences, the Canadians are allowed to offer. That's clear. But whether they will do so is very doubtful, because in the rental law and the housing law we have, I think they will not be interested in it. Whoever spreads only fairy tales should also mark them, just as we have to label every fuzzi product in the economy – so please also introduce a label for fairy tales! Finally, I can say: Ladies and gentlemen, we should not be afraid of Canada, but we should say about new opportunities and new jobs Yes, so in this respect also a yes to CETA. [[Abg. Kogler: Who's doing that? Nobody's doing that!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9080	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9101	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago we had a survey on CETA, which was very comprehensive, we have listened all day to experts. The group of experts was divided into two parts: On the one hand were those who explained to us: Without CETA, the economy in Europe will collapse, the economy in Austria will collapse! and on the other hand, we have heard experts who have said: Get your hands off me! It is dangerous for our domestic economy to agree to this agreement for our jobs. I told you quite honestly from the Stronach team: I could make it easy for myself to know that the car supplier industry will be one of the big profiters. We could make it easy as a group and say: Without If and But, we agree. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am also the EU spokesman of our group, and as such I see and perceive how great the EU scepticism is and how much distrust has become in this institution. Let's take this example of Brexit: No one here in this area has thought that a country like Britain could say goodbye from the European Union. But many people are losers of globalisation, and many people have lost wealth in recent years and decades. This is the substance from which the aversion grew. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canadian Minister for Trade has also said: Globalisation is the question of society. – We have to ask ourselves the question: How far do we want to advance globalisation, knowing that there will be many, many losers? – colleagues from all political groups in Canada raise this question. If we are not so blind and blue-eyed, we are not simply going into agreements without critically questioning them! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The Canadian Minister for Trade also said: It has been negotiated for seven years, the Pact stands, and it will no longer be changed. And if the Federal Chancellor now calls for a change in the package text, I say quite clearly: That's too little for us! [[Abg. Amon: What would you like to change?]] Ladies and gentlemen! They always say Frank Stronach would drive a completely different line. I talked to him about it. And he said, The only question you have to ask yourself is this: Are jobs created or destroyed? [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Is the Frank Stronach really... Magna or not?]] And the CETA agreement destroys jobs. There is the American study of Tufts University, which says that 200 000 jobs are lost in Europe by 2023, in Canada 30 000. [[Abg. Haubner: By CETA?- Oh, my God!]] That is, jobs are destroyed. He also said: We learned from NAFTA. And since, Mr Vice-Chancellor, he may have a little more idea because he lives in America and Canada than we do in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] He said: NAFTA alone destroyed thousands of jobs in America. I think we should take this seriously. It's about jobs. We have 400 000 unemployed, and we need to take responsibility here and find ways to create jobs, how we can strengthen the economy and how we can see that these people have a future perspective. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Some of our core criticism points are: It is a living agreement, there will be committees installed, there the agreement will be changed, it will be developed dynamically – far away from all parliaments. And again, I am quite clearly concerned that there are parallel structures for transnational groups that simply create the framework conditions they need to achieve the highest possible profit, not in order to create jobs in the countries – and there is different access to the EIA. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a great responsibility. The Federal Chancellor has declared that he wants to take on this responsibility, and we also demand it from the opposition. We demand that he finally act courageously and that he vote against it in the Council. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] If we vote in the Council, with this smooth excuse: Well, it is a mixed agreement, and the EU's jurisdiction will be decided in the national parliaments anyway!, this is no more than a faint excuse, because, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, we expect an ECJ ruling on the EU-Singapore agreement, which already assumes that the arbitration courts will fall into EU competence. That is, it could be that the Federal Chancellor says: Well, don't be afraid, dear people! Don't worry, dear party colleagues, who have all your big concerns about CETA! That's going to be decided in the parliaments anyway! – And from 2017, it’s like that in EU competence, we agreed to something that we don’t know for sure or don’t have a good feeling about it. Ladies and gentlemen! Now is the hour of decision. Now it is important to confess color, even for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, even though he says: It's not a kids' game. – It has a lot of pressure on Austria. That's what we're all aware of. But this is now also the nail sample for his credibility as federal chancellor. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now we will see how seriously he takes the vote of his party colleagues. We from the Stronach team are definitely clear against CETA.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9203	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9225	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The issue is not simple, and I should first like to thank Mr Hübner of the FPÖ for stressing the positions of German Chancellor Kern. These are correct and objective. We cannot tolerate that the back door of an agreement could undermine substantial parts of what constitutes the quality of life in Europe, but also in Austria. To stay concrete: Parliament is meeting here in Vienna. Vienna has not been the most vital city in the world for years, because there are things like manna falling from heaven, but because there is an excellent organization of public health care there – from childcare to canal connection to supply of water and energy – which ensures excellent quality of life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: That's what Canadians want...!]] An agreement that threatens this is unacceptable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: All of this is not affected!]] - I'll be right there. [[Abg. Stroll: That's unscrupulous!]] Now there are critics who say that you should not vote, you should not sign. But there is now only one man in Europe who, although the procedure is actually completed, is trying to counter those parts that could endanger it. And Christian Kern has been very successful on this question so far. He is the only one who has achieved changes, and he tries so to do so by means of a pack and with a liability. [[Abg. Kassinger: Where?]] I would like to make that clear. The same critics who claim that the same is in the midst of the CETA Treaty – which is wrong by the way – and who also say that it is not binding and therefore we do not need it, which is also not true, are in conflict with itself, because, Mr Pirklhuber, if nothing else is in it, it would be binding, and if something else is in it, then the claim of liability is wrong, because this declaration is already binding because the Vienna Convention of Treaties provides precisely that such a declaration is directly applicable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: How?]] [[Abg. Kogler: Why?]] That is why we have a liability here with the declaration, and we have also included all the essential points in general care and in the standards that Christian Kern has achieved that there are significant improvements. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Which article...?]] Ladies and gentlemen! At this point it is also clear that: We haven't decided yet. (Inter-note from Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.) – 31 is it, yes! [[Call the ÖVP: Members!]] We have not yet decided whether this is enough for movement, and we are now in a very critical examination of the previous points. But one thing is clear: A Federal Chancellor of this Republic cannot, when he goes into negotiations and tries to reach the essential points – he talks personally with Prime Minister Trudeau, he also talks to the President of the EU Commission Jean-Claude Juncker, we are here talking to the Canadian Minister and Commissioner Malmström – then, if there is a distraction, say: In the present form, approval is not possible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] There you can go, of course, and in an unqualified way, like Matthias Strolz in an intermediate call, you can say: That's what they say. This is poison and galle! We don't even look at that! That's terrible, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Smear comedy!]] You're going to break up! A bit clearer and better was colleague Hübner, who criticised that companies that may have another owner, but are not letterbox companies, are included. So: Why, if there is the agreement, then the company Red Bull in Salzburg should not have the right to the agreement, because the middle and final owner is mostly Thai countries, you must explain it to someone else! When the agreement comes, a company in Canada or such in the 28 EU Member States will probably have the right to assert all legal instruments. What do you criticize about it? I don't understand. There are much more serious questions, such as: Are the ILO standards being complied with? And that's where the Canadians really moved. It was one of the main criticisms of us that the ILO core labour standards have not been implemented. The Canadians have already decided the seventh open and are on their way to make the eighth. This is a progress we have achieved in this area, ladies and gentlemen. We'll take a very close look at this. Whether that will lead to a yes, I can't say today. It can be very easy that it is not enough, but one must be clear: You should be honest with this, and if we have achieved something, we should be happy about it! A comment I have to make for the Third President Hofer: In the Centre, Mr Vilimsky claimed that President Hofer, if he were to become President of the Federal Republic of Germany, would not sign after the ratification by this Parliament. I'm really asking: Let us make it clear to the public, Mr President. That would be a huge breach of the constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] The Federal President has to examine the constitutional status and then sign it, but not refuse the signature if the majority of the elected representatives decide something that does not fit him. Let me make this clear, Mr President Hofer. Perhaps Mr Vilimsky did not understand this, perhaps you have the statement that you will still be amazed at what is possible, otherwise. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9418	I call Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9439	Mr President. High house! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Hübner mentioned it earlier in his speech: It is now heard by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who may come from the liberals or for years have come from the liberals. This is about national sovereignty, it is about something like “the right goes from the people”, it is about such things. We heard from Mr Finanzminister on the morning in the context of his budget speech that trust is something very essential – the confidence of the people in politics. I believe that the whole process, the entire process of CETA and TTIP, is anything but a good thing to strengthen this confidence in the acting actors of the Federal Government. It was influenced from the beginning by mystery. In reality, CETA has been completely negotiated by the parliaments and the public since 2009. TTIP looks different: We all remember that only at great pressure – among other things also by certain Austrian newspapers, but also by NGOs, but also by the Freedom Party – was minor transparency created. We remember the theatre with the possible insight into the text of the agreement: can only be done in the ministry, all things must be surrendered et cetera. It was only from the eleventh round of negotiations that someone from the EU made it easy to report to Parliament. And in the context of the Debriefing Meetings you will find out – and the Crux is often in detail – interesting things, for example, that the Americans are quite, quite strongly opposed by the so-called Buy American Act. Name: When it comes to getting orders from local institutions, the Americans say clearly: We have the Buy American Act, we don't! As part of the Debriefing Meetings, we learn that the Americans are very likely to be interested in liberalising the financial sector in order to be able to place their financial services products even better in Europe. I'm just saying as a keyword: Real estate bubble in 2008. And we learn as little things as the fact that, within the framework of TTIP, there is a so-called regulatory council within this entire Treaty system, which can decide on a very wide range of provisions which de facto have a legal character and which are quite difficult to obtain from national parliaments. Why am I telling this about length and latitude? – This is about trust, and it is a matter of feeling – and you as government parties have made a clear contribution to this – that things in backrooms are decided here that things are decided of vital and essential importance in the back Chamber, by a few people, and that it is the government’s desire to keep the whole thing under the seal of silence. That's not how it's done! Right goes from the people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The people have a right to be fully informed about this, and the people are not as stupid as some believe, but the people are able to make decisions on the basis of properly prepared information in the context of the corresponding democratic possibilities. But that's obviously exactly what you don't want. You want the TTIP Regulation Council, you want to deal with the whole thing without the public. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It is also not a source of confidence if you refer to all these laws or treaties as a free trade agreement, if you say that it is only free trade agreements and free trade is something good, it increases the wealth et cetera, because you cannot be against it. These are not just free trade agreements, but there are – and if you look in detail, it becomes clear to you – things inside that have nothing to do with a free trade agreement. These things have already been addressed: potential danger to European social standards, potential danger to European environmental standards, risks to European food standards. As already mentioned, liberalisation also means, of course, that US financial products are much easier to place on the European market. The general care – water, health care – has already been mentioned, and also that pressure can arise here to privatize. And as for the fairy tale with the profits of prosperity through these agreements: In particular, I have in mind our small and medium-sized enterprises, and if you look at the figures and the quantities, you will find that 1 percent of Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises are currently exporting to the United States or to the States on the North American continent. They may have an advantage, but the price is too high for us if the remaining 99 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria are exposed to a large risk, an additional strong competition that can be produced under other standards and thus more cost-effective. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Doppler and Mr Schmid.]] The balance of advantages and disadvantages does not take place at all, particularly with the EIA, which is unconditional for these two agreements. Now to the last point, which is particularly disturbing, to the arbitration courts: We were expressly against these arbitration courts from the very beginning. We don't need that. This causes enormous costs or only those who are able to bear enormous costs at all or have the opportunity to simply settle disputes before these arbitrators. There are already funds – there you can buy securities or fund shares – which, as it were, place on large lawyers who are whiting a great deal of business. The whole thing goes in the direction of speculation. We reject that. We have a strong and well-functioning legal system. The Rule of Law is with us God is one that is very, very much respected. We unreservedly reject these arbitration courts. In reality, this is a label flaw, and the label is called the Free Trade Agreement. I have now raised six, seven points which have nothing to do with free trade in the real sense of the word, but which are also included in it. That's a label flaw! And here you can't tell me now that this is a absolutely good measure to increase confidence in the population. For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are already very excited whether the Federal Chancellor, who has clearly discovered this topic for himself, is following his flowering words, which to some extent are quite sympathetic. There are plenty of ways to do this: ==References== The EU Council decides on the agreement on 1 October. ==References== The signing agreement is concluded on October. And, of course, in addition, we have the opportunity to decide on this in the Austrian National Council when it comes to ratification. And here we are saving ourselves what Mr Matznetter said earlier in reference to the Constitution on the role of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We are already very excited about how, when it comes to ratification, the SPÖ will behave in this context. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: ( towards SPÖ) Exactly! Fall down in the loft!]] A word to our candidate for the Federal President's election: One thing is clear, our candidate has always expressed himself clearly and unmistakably. The procedure can now be discussed or not, and the lawyers are always clear, the message of content of our liberal candidate was: Stop TTIP and CETA in this form, present information to the people, and then let the people decide on such essential things in the context of a referendum. Unfortunately, the other candidates are not heard so clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9538	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9660	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9681	Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Economic Affairs. I would like to address a few points: firstly, to say something general and then to the actual subject of the survey, and finally to the current questions and to how it could go on. After all, we can discuss current developments, and it must be acknowledged to the Chancellor that he – at least in me – has awakened the hope that something could go, and we Greens take it to the floor and make some real-life proposals. First of all, you can't say that often enough; I didn't manage to change the title of the survey either: If, as my previous speaker said, there is always talk of free trade agreements, then a completely wrong impression will be given. I have nothing against trade, which is free or not, be there, okay, we of the Greens are above all for reasonable trade, for fair trade, if it takes place within economically reasonable limits and under ecological conditions. By the way, CETA may not be the largest construction site at all, because CETA is not going down because of it, I say that already, but much has been set on a sparse level, which is not necessary in this form. That is why, above all, it is not just a trade agreement, because it is 80, 90 percent – you only need to read matter carefully in order to find out, but sometimes I wonder who really does it – that is, because it is 80, 90 percent a regulatory agreement – in brackets: or perhaps a deregulation agreement. Or it is also a standard setting agreement – up or down, that is the question. Many fear that it is – in the trend – a standard reduction agreement. We will take action immediately. It's not like there's going to be anything worse, that doesn't mean a reasonable person, but it's built-in mechanisms that have a certain trend. We're supposed to make it, and we're supposed to do it on this one. But, honestly, trade agreements have long since ceased, and one should simply confess, as one may still have different opinions. At this point, what I am constantly saying comes even in your absence, Mr Vice-Kanzler: that I have the impression that we can really discuss it openly and honestly with you and we have not lost the basis of conversation and also the corresponding mutual respect, and I hope that it is the other way round. That's it. Only: Nevertheless, I think it is necessary to look at the critical points here, and it does not help because general praises on any statistically proven relations with Canada, which, by the way, clearly already exist without these so-called trade agreements, otherwise you could not always give them a talk. Whether this will be compacted, improved, evaluated in the future is put forward. Yeah, there or there this will probably be the case anyway. By the way, we have nothing against the fact that the car builders and the plant builders and what I know who better network, there were indeed more standard comparisons to the advantage of mutual economic relations, which is not much against. But for products of daily needs, such as food, this is different, which you do not have to skip back and forth, and which you still need to speed up and favour in the form that you create another incentive. But that's not so much my topic either. It's going to be tricky, I mean, when it comes to fundamental questions, because there are meta-decision mechanisms in the text. That's where it's going to be critical. – We'll take a look at that. First of all, on the claimed economic effects. – Here in the meeting room the survey on CETA and TTIP took place. Thankfully, even those who were invited by the proponents have reported openly and honestly here – including Wifo’s representatives – that the economic effects on growth are minimal, in terms of gross domestic product and jobs. You can talk about homeopathic doses. And those on the other side calculate effects in the minus range. So if you sell it as a business programme – even this is already daily – I have to say: That is completely absurd, every reasonable person must reject it! So: The effects are minimal. And the question is: What do we buy for it? Let us now come to some of these problems. There are these more or less notorious investment protection companies or arbitration proceedings. The courts are not, by the way, courts, as is always claimed, because there is still no independence for the judges. I really quote there regularly, because the most unexpected, the German Richterbund. I've never heard of anyone who would have disproved this. They say that this is not an independent construction, for several reasons; but I am not going to do it now for reasons of time. This has played less part in the survey, but what has played a role is that in these arbitration systems the privilege results for several reasons. Access – which can be contained in this leaflet – is already a privileged one, apart from that, it is not erased, by the way. It is also thought that it makes sense in such an agreement only if companies based in Canada can act here, then stupidly but also against states, for otherwise, we can focus on the respective legal systems that already exist – what we suggest by the way. The difference between the two, however, is the following: It is not true that in CETA – at TTIP we don't know yet – there would be something inside that you can't do as a state. That's why it's also relatively hearty, gentle that the Right to regulare is always held so high. You have now taken a little distance from it, because you have recognized the natural nature. But the difference is far from there. Everyone knows – you here, other parliaments have already experienced this or even municipal councils, who are particularly concerned with it, landing days or executives – that, when they adopt any regulations, they are suspending the public's hand on their part and the claims for damages from these proceedings are often higher than in normal judicial proceedings, for example under Austrian law. That's a problem. If they were to go to the Constitutional Court, they would have far less chances than if they went to these arbitration courts. That's the implemented shale that you don't get away with, and that's the problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are two steps to be taken, and that is why I do not allow it anymore – and that is why I have started it so now – so that we have to keep going, that those who also see these aspects and look at them a little more differentiated, at once are the pitfalls that do not understand anything about trade and economy. That's what you can really do now, it's really annoyed. Stop it! Now we come to this story, which is now in concrete with CETA and what Mr. Chancellor wants, what we can praise – the will. Public invitations to tender, services I leave now, because in CETA the danger is not as great as in arbitration courts and in breaking through the precautionary principle, but it is also in disrepute. I just don't have the time. Whether the package text brings as much as the previous speaker claimed, I still dare to doubt, as many experts do. Let us move on to the precautionary principle, which is not mentioned anywhere. I have already held out a few times that in Article 25 para. 2 Z 2 lit. b – I can already break it externally – expressly the precautionary principle. There is nothing wrong with it, it is always said that the precautionary principle is in EU primary law anyway. It only does nothing if the detailed provisions concern secondary law. However, this is in the Treaty, which expressly states the science-based approach. It all sounds so harmless, already again, but connoisseurs know that's the evidence load reverse. Mr Pirklhuber will perhaps explain this, just as he has put forward a motion for a resolution to that effect, which will also highlight our projects here. It was just so much said: I never hear an answer, so I really wonder very slowly who the non-experts are. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am also addressing this point to the journalists, because the spin that is against CETA has not all come together economically. I doubt that, and I strongly reject it now. I rather feel that those who claim to have not read the contract have not read it either – we have, by the way, two years ago. Some improvement has been made in the arbitration courts. Now it's important to me what chancellor wants to achieve core and how he can do that. The package text does not work because it is all clearly regulated in the Treaty, picobello, completely clear. There's nothing to reinterpret. If these arbitration systems exist, they will comply with the treaty, there is also not much to interpret. Wherever there would be room for interpretation, it could bring something else, but that's the least. We need to diagnose this here. But now it comes: The Canadians – even under conservative government at that time – did not want to do so at all. The European governments, unfortunately also ours, have also cooperated in the negotiations of the European Commission to bring in these arbitration systems. No one wanted that at first, but when the TTIP story came up, you did it. That's not what several countries want. In the current draft meeting today at Union level, the reservations of Belgium, Poland, Slovenia and some others are still noted. They haven't cleared them away yet, so it's about – I don't appeal to you at all, I'm discussing almost fictitiously with Chancellor Core now – that you're looking for these alliances. He doesn't have to be put up that way at all, but that obviously belongs to the stage that he – we heard it – is the only fighter. It doesn't do anything. We must seek alliances in the Union and not threaten with the Vetoceule. That would be a much more sensible process! And the allies are there, at least on this question. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For the time being, it is enough not to sign, because the signature is now on, and a federal government decision is necessary to do so. Now it is all to be assessed whether this mandate from the Federal Government then comes through the President, now via the local Bureau, or not. I'm already excited. We would recommend not to sign. Why? – Because you don’t have to “bubble” forever with this stop CETA. You can either make a new mandate or draw at least the two, three, four main poison teeth. Then we say that's exactly the one from the core agenda, but then belongs to the tool set there where it's hustle. We can't have the wood here and over here we can organize an open-air hive race that doesn't interest a pig at the end because there's nothing to hustle there. There's a lot of hustle and bustle, but then you really have to go and do it, and there's the possibility. Now I say that's real political in with these alliances, we're not even naïve. One last thing – we will still have an opportunity in the Subcommittee on Friday, but please do so –: This government is in the process of breaking the constitution. In a uniform opinion under Article 23d, the federal states have issued a binding opinion, namely the Federal Government. It says literally inside: Arbitration may not be provided for, otherwise it shall not be accepted. Although this is something other than signing, it is not acceptable. – Moreover, there is more and more opinion on the need for unanimity in the Council. So: This cannot be accepted, no provisional application, all of that. And the National Council, here – that is, in the relevant EU committee – has taken this as a basis for decision, at the request of the Social Democrats and the ÖVP, that we still support it. So there is a bond for the Federal Government. And now I want to know how you solve this. We will already consider constitutional steps if you break the will of the National Council. We are binding the Federal Government, not to sign, to take advantage of the opportunity and bring out the most important parts, and then perhaps we can negotiate over the rest of CETA, because we are not naïve.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9813	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e9834	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I think it is necessary to talk about what we are actually doing here and what the intention is. The intention must be to assume that most people have probably understood that Austria is a country with 8.5 million inhabitants, but has an industrial rate of around 20 percent, and that it also has a agriculture that produces much more than is necessary for domestic supply. [[Abg. Pretty: This has nothing to do with investment protection!]] Some of those present and others have perhaps already understood that our prosperity also depends on how we live in export, how we can sell what we produce. That, Mrs Dietrich, depends, for example, on jobs. Incidentally, I also need appropriate rules for the whole of what we call trade. The rules of play are usually contained in free trade agreements or similar contracts. Amazingly, Austria has around 97 such agreements, some of which are also investment protection agreements, because for each matter you also need some regulatory mechanism in the dispute. Unfortunately, this is the case in the legal system, and we have never had a problem over all these decades, but on the other hand a huge success because our prosperity, because our jobs also depend on it. [[Abg. Cute: We can do this now!]] What we are doing with Canada now is nothing more than another contract, which, according to expert opinion, is even one of the best that has ever been negotiated. Mrs Dietrich, please don't say anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] It is quite surprising, from my point of view, even embarrassing, when you come to the speaker's desk here as a speaker of a group that still has the name "Stronach" in the name, and not to what Mr Stronach is. Although he is Austrian, he has long led a Canadian company called Magna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] What is Magna? – An Austro-Canadian, even a world group, pleased. [[Abg. Kogler: Everything without...!]] What's he doing in Austria? There were just guests from the Styria there: Workplaces. What does he need? – He needs rules. If you haven't understood that yet, you haven't seen the connection somewhere. I'm really sorry for you, but that's your thing. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] As a second point in this context, because both are always connected: TTIP is the conspiracy of large corporations – Magna is a large group – I have to ask on the other hand: What is CETA? – CETA is a trade agreement with 37 million Canadians on the one hand and more than 520 million Europeans on the other. Mr Kogler! It is not about – you are perfectly right, I have listened to Mr Breuss and others too – that we are making crazy profits in the economy or in exports. That would be funny for 37 million Canadians. The argument is correct. But how can the argument be correct when fear is on the other hand, now water supply, education, social systems in Vienna, kindergartens and everything from the Canadians are “cleaned up”? - That's not true, it's not coherent. It's about something completely different at that time. What is it about? – It is about whether, at a time of globalisation, we can still develop binding rules for the game, which bring both sides profits. Both sides! Mr Kogler, you are asking what we are winning. We win relatively little commercial policy. But what do we lose? – We lose all our reputation if we don’t understand it and if we don’t do what most, I’m sure, even all European countries will end up doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: We can still see that!]] I must also say that you should be careful if you are going to have any constitutional breach, because, among other things, the applicability of arbitration courts is reserved for Parliament. That is what the Commission has taken out. It is wrong that this is now somehow introduced by the back door. [[Abg. Kogler: But it's in the contract!]] From the back door: Mr Kassager, you are going out here and are talking about the people and about the right of the people. That's undisputed. Then you also demand that the people also have a right to be informed. That's good, too. Then I would really recommend just because you always take TTIP as a pattern example, go and read it at least. We've opened the reading possibility. 24 Members were there, having looked at it, four of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Kassinger: Me too!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Yes, but you always talk about it and know every addition. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] But I also come to the accusation you have made... [[Abg. Cashier: Check your records, then see...!]] – Report Please speak, please. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kassinger.]] I just told you – because you're so happy to confuse this – it's about TTIP, and I'm coming to CETA right now. Maybe you can capture this once or twice hearingly and then distinguish it. [[Abg. Kassinger: I don't doubt it, don't worry!]] So to what CETA is about: CETA is, as far as commercial competence is concerned, the task of the Commission under the entire contract context when the Member States award negotiating mandate. Commercial law is Commission law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The agreement has always been negotiated with interim reports for seven years, transparent, everyone is present. There have been no problems as with the other agreement, TTIP, which is not even ready. Let us therefore separate things. The Canadian ambassador clearly presented in the survey – even to the failure of the Americans, the United States – I am Canadian, we have other rules, we have a different culture. That's a difference, that's your own, independent country. We know. It seems also necessary for the evaluation to point out. CETA is a good agreement when I look at the allegations that stand in it. One is, for example, the question as to what is now this so-called "being provision" – this is about education, it is about water, it is about kindergartens, everything possible – and therefore also the question of whether a sort of privatisation pressure could arise. The Treaty contains, not at all in the declaration, it is reserved for the individual communities themselves to re-communicate services which are already privatized. So if someone thinks that this can be better for your own community than for the private, he can even do that. This does not even need clarification, but the clarification is also there. The sustainability chapter is explained and presented in the contract and in the explanations. The labour, social, environmental, health and consumer protection standards have been clarified. Mr Katzian, I once heard the argument that one might not recognize the collective agreements or otherwise. I think that is more than clear. The Canadians have already ratified the ILO provisions in this context. There's no way back or anything. [[Abg. Kogler: It's not about that!]] And I'll come back to the following: Faith You really think 37 million Canadians have a bad intention to roll up our system? Fears and emotions are always dangerous in form, and one should meet them with material information, but what is being delivered here today is not really material information. Mr Hübner, do you perhaps have the need to listen to me now? I come to speak to you now. They come to the speaker's desk here, take the English text and say that's TTIP through the back door, and explain that just as the procedure with letterbox companies is possible and so on and is not excluded. [[Abg. Cute: That's not what I said! He who has ears to hear, let him hear.]] - Then listen to me, I'm just about to present this to you. [[Mr Hübner and Mr Lausch.]] Look, I find it remarkable – I have the explanation, and you also have it – the word TTIP does not occur once in the whole representation. How can you derive from the fact that somewhere is intentioned to allow American companies, TTIP, to enter into force now? The possibility with the letterbox companies is explicitly excluded. They must be economically active there. They have quoted the paragraph themselves, although not quite right, but in principle read it out. Now I am telling you what you said, Mr Dr. Nice. I know you're a lawyer. [[Abg. That's how it is!]] - Okay. If you stick to words and headlines, it will be very difficult. It's better to stick to what's not inside or between the lines. - Do you know who's talking like that? – A corner lawyer speaks like this, but not a good lawyer! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scherak.]] A good lawyer interprets the texts or adheres to the texts. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Hübner, what you have said and what you have derived was simply not serious. It cannot be deduced from the text. [[Abg. Dear: I have explained to you, I believe,...!]] – Well, I don’t think you made it clear to me, I definitely didn’t understand. So, and now I'm coming to a close. Ladies and gentlemen, there is always the question of whether Professor Obwexer, what is going to happen is what the Commission itself interprets and decides. On this point, I would like to give Mr Matznetter the right thing. It has been referred to, and this has just been clarified by the Commission today: The European Commission agrees that the legal status of the joint declaration of interpretation is supplemented by the following: This declaration of interpretation sets out a binding interpretation of CETA's provisions in accordance with Article 31 of the 1969 Vienna Convention on Contracting Law. – So what more do you want in this context? [[Abg. Kogler: If it's not inside, it won't help! ... no legal obligation!]] Look, Mr Kogler, what your problem is, you don't actually stick to what's inside, but you always talk in the conjunctiv – it could be if... is. [[Abg. Kogler: That was indicative!]] In the same breath, however, they insist that there are a lot of regulations and other things. I am telling you why this is partly so precisely regulated: because we had all these precepts throughout the process, standards and otherwise something would be undermined. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kogler.]] The Canadian minister said to me – informally, but I say it anyway – that it is an insult to the Canadian people to submit to their or the Canadian people that food or other standards would not be met there. They're higher than with us in Austria. That's an intention I can only understand. In the end, I would just ask you one thing: Think about what we decide to do. The best example is: Mr Kogler, I have heard you in the Singapore Agreement, in other agreements which we have always discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I've been working in politics for over 20 years now. I have never seen the slightest problem in practice after the application of an agreement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Therefore: The application of this Agreement, probably or perhaps the provisional, will show you to all that you are there incite notions, fears, emotions that are not entitled in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10130	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Klinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10151	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The debate on CETA and TTIP is going through all the countries, parliaments and the Chamber of Commerce, which we have both heard for a very long time. It should be noted that there are very, very different approaches and approaches to how to deal with this conflict of legal matter. First of all, I would like to address this survey on TTIP and CETA, which, by the way, has been very, very good, because one has finally received first-hand information. I didn't have the opportunity to read myself, but I also honestly say: I probably wouldn't have packed it in English. Furthermore, the survey was valuable in so far as it really brought together the different opinions here in Parliament. But now I have to come back to what Malmström said. Malmström said at the beginning of her speech: CETA and TTIP “can bring benefits when you do it properly. ” “The negotiations have benefited from close contacts with civil society” – a question mark – “and from the control of the European Parliament.” So we don't have that right now. And I don't see what the benefit should be. And then for the first time the mixed agreement was put into play. I will come back to this later because, in legal matter, in legal certainty, it becomes quite crucial how this mixed agreement should be assessed. Kern said: Austria benefits from free trade, open borders bring prosperity to Austria, CETA and TTIP are probably the best agreements the EU has ever concluded. A wormhead drop is that the arbitration courts have drawn their own second level. This was renegotiated, but this second level, if not exjudicated, ends again with the arbitration courts. Well, what did I think was a success? – I don’t think that can be sold as a success. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Mitterlehner said that on page 12 of the Protocol, paragraph 8: TTIP “was not set up sufficiently transparently enough. ” He also explains the arbitration courts and then says: “But I am (...) also in relation to TTIP for a well-negotiated, fair trade agreement.” – So I was a bit perplexed: It was not transparent and not well negotiated, but then apparently a good and fair agreement. And now on the whole economic impact that I personally do not really know in their entire convolut: We have been in the European Parliament for five years now, in which a small businessman is fighting against the Judo World Federation. Mr Haubner knows what I am talking about. And unfortunately, we have had the problem of God's failure to recover the cost of the procedure, even if we had won. And since my question is: What about the arbitration courts? Is this the same premise that, when we go to arbitration courts, we may be able to win – which is possible – the costs will not be refunded? – Well, good night, small and medium-sized economy when it gets into these catches! Another point is: When did Austria still have the issue in hand during these negotiations? When did we have the booklet in our hands? I do not think that can be answered here because, through the unanimity - Faymann has voted in favour - of the Council's decision to negotiate with the European Commission, TTIP and CETA, we have already agreed that the extraordinary procedures or procedures concerning the European Union are going through in all cases. And now we – and that was later said – remain to introduce or request certain regulatory provisions into the mixed agreements. I wonder, What are these regulars? Is this the regulation that concerns only the individual countries? And if we then... – Okay, but the individual states concerned. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner:... which do not concern trade! That's a mixed part!]] And I ask myself another question: As the ECJ is now on the train in the Singapore Agreement, it would be clear what legal obligations actually look like. That means we don't know yet. I would also like to ask myself the question: What will happen if we can only vote on our own legality in our states? We do not agree with what the European Union is doing with this agreement, but we probably have no way of saying that the EU is also entering into our own legality if there is not a majority of the individual states. And that's what I want to avoid. Finally, one more thing: It cannot be that such a large contract is negotiated with such consequences without legal certainty.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10194	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10215	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I think you've gotten a little bit with the version today, just like I have sometimes. Last year we had the topic of football as a companion, that is, Champions League and Regionalliga. This year we've got Shakespeare, so acting and lyrics. Shakespeare also meant: “Hool pots have the loudest sound.” [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I don't think there's much left in the CETA theme. There is not much left in the pot, because there are no more arguments against it either. And I think in this respect, the survey has already revealed something: The survey showed how far we get in a media dependence with courage and anxiety, where we go and where we just don't have courage anymore. It's actually about how we can all take the Federal Chancellor's hand and get him out of the dead end. This is the help we have to give today, and that is why we are going to accept this issue today, and that is particularly important. Let's focus on CETA! The contract for this has been in place for two years, but only in English. Now I already know that some in the SPÖ have been somewhat irritated, that it did not exist in German until July. But for two years the contract has been up, and for two years now we know what it's all about: And that is basically the fall in investment protection – I ask you, investor protection! Mr Haubner mentioned something with the right to rent first. Investor protection in free trade agreements protects against discrimination. And that's what it's all about, and nothing else. A particularly annoying issue, which you are constantly putting into play, is the special claims rights for corporations. They don't even exist in there. Obviously, the contract has not really been read by many. Or the others can't English or English or anything else. Somehow one has to insist on making it clear that this is simply not true what you are saying; it is not in there at all! Well, Mr Kogler said something about national leaders first. So I think he's talking about the national conference that voted against. I didn't know yet that the national conference was in the Constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] That's why it's not a breach of the constitution. That is why we should not say that we are breaking the Constitution. You can't break that! Mr Matznetter has said quite correctly – what the FPÖ always puts into play, the power or the voice goes from the people – according to our constitution, according to our determination, the competence can be seen here in the National Council. That's the jumping point. You don't need to use this populistly. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, We must not, as it were, agree on economic competence to the Greens. I'll come back to the show. Her Darth Vader of Anxiety, Michel Reimon, was so enchanted by the colleague Kriebaum, and he even managed to say that all 63 existing investment protection contracts should be announced, or at all all 3,600. It's documented. And just as documented is the economic madness of the statement: The customs duties pay the entrepreneurs anyway. - No, the customs pay the consumers. If the customs duties are dropped, the product is much cheaper and much cheaper and also calculated accordingly. Finally, before the palm oil baron goes down and tells us again the misters of the flesh and so on, I can also remember: Do you even know where the chicken meat comes from? – [[Abg. Lichtenecker: My business is from the Mühlviertel!]] We are already importing chicken meat from Brazil and Thailand. And now don't tell me there are standards higher than in Canada. Don't even tell us the problem of chlorchin, because, as Trittin has already said, it is in fact so that we have to think about whether it is healthier to have the antibiotics in the chicken before or after that the chlorine. [[Abg. Kogler: I never brought that!]] [[Abg. Kogler: I like the chlorine!]] In so far as I believe that you have to stop the whole issue, you have to go on to the subject. Let's all take the Federal Chancellor by the hand, we'll take him out of the dead end! What the union is doing here is more than embarrassing. Namely – at the end of the day a quote – Commissioner Malmström said: If the EU cannot approve the deal with Canada, with whom can it conclude trade agreements? – We should be aware of this, we need to think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10305	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10326	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Economic Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! CETA and TTIP: Supplementary declarations do not change anything. Who said that? – State Secretary Mahrer. Today is on the ORF homepage: ‘CETA: Seven EU Member States have so far hesitated with agreement." Why? – Arbitration courts to or from: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, CETA is not just a free trade agreement that concerns the reduction of customs duties, but goes far beyond that. Actually, CETA – we have heard it today – is a regulatory agreement. This means that a state can influence the legislation of another state. In reality, it is not about free trade, but about how best to eliminate and deal with the rule of law. It is only the interests of the large groups that are in the foreground, and not the interests of citizens, which is actually a very worrying development. And I firmly reject it, as many citizens in our country do. As we now know, ladies and gentlemen, the EU has been negotiating with Canada in secret since 2009. [[Cheerfulness at the ÖVP, Abg. Matznetter as well as with Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: I need to know!]] - There you can laugh, that doesn't matter. They try to push through these contracts by all means, although they know who was on the line with the contracts concluded in 1994 between the United States and Mexico. - You don't seem to know that. The big companies benefited massively, the small and medium-sized enterprises suffered massively, and especially agriculture. And that is why I strongly reject these contracts by CETA and TTIP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10367	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. tiny. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10388	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. Kogler: Say what's in the contract! Create clarity!]] The parliamentary survey has shown me three main points. First of all, it was totally unfortunate that TTIP and CETA were negotiated together in a debate. [[Abg. Kogler: We didn't want it anyway!]] As the Canadian Minister for Trade has already said, these are two completely independent and completely different countries and also two completely different agreements. So if Mr Doppler says he can't agree to TTIP, the contract – there's no such thing at all. In contrast, CETA is a well-negotiated agreement available to us. And unfortunately, this mixture has also pushed down the material level of the debate. The second point that opened my eyes to me – Peter Haubner has already said this in his statement of entry at the survey – is the perspective of those from the protected area, namely how little knowledge and understanding for the companies and for the entrepreneurs is available. [[Abg. Doppler: For the Chamber of Commerce!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That's where the Chamber of Commerce speaks!]] Obviously, many are not aware of what an entrepreneur has to do in the export, that he has placed his products on the market, that he can serve the loans with the banks, and that he can secure the jobs by also paying the wages. And this assessment was also allowed to experience Mr Schellhorn in the Economic Committee with the working time flexibility debate. In this context, the crucial statement for me was that of Mr Mag. Tencl, entrepreneur in the field of tractor systems with an export share of 95 percent, 300 employees at the Wiener Neudorf plant and 400 employees in Weiz in Styria as well as many small regional suppliers. It supplies to the USA and in 2015 paid € 650 000 in customs duties and non-tariff additional costs. His competitors are in Japan, and he's got it under control so far. Only, it will have an advantage of € 650 000 in the coming future by means of the Trans-Pacific Agreement. And who'll meet? – The employees in Weiz, the employees in Wiener Neudorf and the small regional suppliers in Lower Austria and Styria. And since Mr Kogler still believes all serious what he has put out with an intermediate call at the survey, we can maintain the 60 percent export rate without trade agreements?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Kogler: Well, so far it has at least gone!]] I am therefore already on my third and last point, which I completely missed in the debate on the survey, namely: In future, how do we safeguard our social systems, our prosperity and our jobs, with a declining export rate? – I believe that there is no satisfactory answer. That is why I ask all of you to reconsider your reservations, because we, 500 million Europeans, have a working trade agreement with 51 million South Koreans, why should this not work with 35 million Canadians who are much more like us in values, standards and in our culture?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10481	This is what Mr Schmid has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10502	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Many free trade agreements already signed by Austria should have developed positively for our country. However, it is likely that the population will be very little – not to say – informed about success or failure. As regards CETA, an almost seven-year negotiating marathon is presented as positive for the outcome of the negotiations and, shortly before the ratification of this Agreement, possible, unacceptable positions are presented through various media. Even our government is different. Austria is well-known for its high standards and should now sacrifice them to a company's thinking. Among other things, agriculture is particularly affected by decisions taken by the EU, such as the Russian sanctions, which will lead to further farming deaths. In contrast to partially genetically modified low-priced products, further price increases of high-quality products are expected, which will flood our market. Special problems are posed by the special rights of foreign companies, which produce a clear parallel justice and therefore have to be rejected without delay. With high quality, Austria's economy is to be described as self-sufficient in many areas. However, the mass import of low-cost products must be rejected. Our Austrian quality already has a high export share, and we can continue to serve it through individual contracts. Let us decide for Austria and against this free trade agreement! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10542	Mrs Mag. Muttons. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10563	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Before joining the debate on CETA, I would like to say a few words about the survey. I think it was a very good, excellent event. We had excellent experts here, a high-ranking occupation and a truly intensive exchange for and against CETA. I would like to see more of such events. They should also be fully public in terms of transparency and better participation. I would be pleased if we could adapt the old rules in the Rules of Procedure in this regard. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Very right!]] Well, first of all, the content is: We want a trade agreement with Canada. For a country such as Austria, which is so successful and intensively involved in international trade, a fundamental rejection of trade would also be absurd. As far as I understand it, no one is really against it. But the question is: How are these agreements equipped? It sounds like a matter of course: Trade must be fair and sustainable. What we need, therefore, is agreements that serve as a basis for further agreements, because they require advanced social, labour and environmental standards, agreements that can benefit everyone and not just a few. CETA in its original version had some serious shortcomings. Thus CETA threatened to restrict the state's ability to act socially and financially, to undermine democracy and to harm the rule of law. The debates of the survey have shown clearly: Many of the experts shared our concerns and confirmed our main criticisms of investor protection, liberalisation pressure for public services, and the danger to our high standards. At the same time, however, we have been able to make many improvements together with numerous other CETA critics in recent weeks. CETA is now definitely treated as a mixed agreement, and the special rights of the case must not be applied for the time being. Think of the first discussions with Commissioner Malmström, who did not want to change anything! So there have been changes, and in the next few days it will be a question of pressing for further improvements to the Additional Protocol towards the Canadians and the Commission. We must also ensure that the Additional Protocol has sufficient legal weight. Depending on this outcome, we will then decide here in Parliament whether the Treaty is acceptable to us or not. So after months of starre, movement has come to the project CETA. Perhaps it will become a positive conclusion for us too, because it would be a pity if we could not agree with Canada on a truly progressive agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10598	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10619	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Muttonen has rightly pointed out the good expertise we had in the survey. In fact, it was a huge success of Austrian civil society, which – starting with a petition, a citizens' initiative – has come to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives and has already called for an inquiry there. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] Some Members of this House have always supported this, in all possible committees, and finally we have this survey on 14 November. ==References== Mr Federal Minister, you were also present. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Not only present!]] – Yes, you were present, have also given a statement, no question. I would like to stress once again what the economic experts have said. Professor Breuss of the Austrian Institute for Economic Research has clearly stated – I quote from the Protocol – that: "Canada is opening up to a larger market than the other way round! And just as it always is, a country that opens up for a larger market – in this case Canada – wins more.” – Point one. Point two: "The EU is also more protected in the case of non-tariff barriers to trade, i.e. norms et cetera. It is clear that if you break this down now, of course the country that has been more protected so far will gain less – that is to say, it will have higher imports – than vice versa.” Ladies and gentlemen, that says a representative of the WIFO at the survey, not a green expert, not an environmentalist, but an economic expert. He also said stone and clear: The economic growth to be generated here is to be looked for with the magnifying glass, the effects are low. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Ladies and gentlemen have already said that Mr Kogler has also worked this out: It is primarily about regulation, and therefore, when it comes to regulation, the question is: Who will regulate how and for what purpose? This is the excitement of civil society, which is the excitement in Europe. It is also in the interests of democracy and of citizens that we look very closely at it. Federal Minister! One thing I really don't understand: If you say today, at the end of your opinion, that your speech will not be justified in practice, then I do not know where you have been for the last three or four years! Citizens have very explicit evidence of these concerns. Tag one: the enormous increase in the number of cases filed by corporations against states. We discussed this up and down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] – That’s true, there are numbers for that. There are now separate professional groups in the financial services sector, in the legal field specializing in the dispute, in the actions against States to enforce their interests, because this is profitable, Minister. That is where the citizens do not want to participate, and neither do we as Members of this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Would you say now: This is not in CETA!, then I say it is clear to experts at the survey that a kind of by-constitution, a by-constitutional court arises. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] Yes, they have actually talked about it because it is completely clear – and this is what Mrs. Professor Dr. Madner from the Vienna University of Economics –: “Foreign investors get two legal channels, they can immediately claim damages, they don’t have to be able to determine the illegality as is usually the case in the national and also in our legal protection system.” – This is a clear statement from an expert in this survey and clearly an indication that it is not with right things as regards arbitration courts. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] Let us look at the details, Mr Minister, also the additional agreement, ladies and gentlemen: It's just that it's an interpretation, not an addition to the contract. It speaks of this statement itself, and the Canadian Minister for Trade confirmed this in the debate: The regulation in Article 8.9 clearly states that it is only about legitimate political objectives. We already have the first major challenge in legal disputes when arbitration courts have to decide what a legitimate political objective is. For the companies, fair and cheap treatment must, as it were, be ensured, and above all they must enjoy protection and full security. Ladies and gentlemen, how is that guaranteed? Who interprets that? – This is clearly regulated, in Article 26.2: The Special Committee on Services and Investment will draw up recommendations on this subject, which the Joint CETA Committee will then have to decide. That is to say, the recommendation, which is right and cheap, which treatment is correct and which is not, decides again a body in which the corporations are involved and the parliaments are excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, this construction must be rejected. I would therefore like to make it clear, of course, that: There is nothing else left to us – and I would expect the Federal Government to recognize the signs of the time – here we need to speak with one voice. The Federal Government and Parliament have to prevent – this is our task – that this Treaty is now signed, because there are legitimate need for improvement. Improvement needs do not mean that in principle we reject any treaty that we exclude cooperation with Canada in social, environmental, economic areas. But this kind of fangs must be drawn, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this proposal will be supported by many Members here. If you – by SPÖ and ÖVP – are not ready to agree today: On Friday, you will have an opportunity to reach a binding opinion in the EU Subcommittee. On this occasion, I would like to return to the opinion of the federal states. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, it is remarkable that there is a common opinion of all the federal states. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] I quote, Mr Kogler has already pointed out: ‘The possibility of arbitration against States (...) is not to be foreseen.’ – That says this joint opinion of all federal states. Furthermore, point (e) states that ‘not to agree to the conclusion of CETA and TTIP in the Council’, i.e. CETA is explicitly mentioned, ‘as long as it does not fulfil the requirements of this Decision, which is at the same time considered to be a uniform opinion pursuant to Article 23d(2) of the TTIP’. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a clear mission from the countries to the Federal Government. We here in Parliament would be well advised to put ourselves on the side of the countries and force these necessary improvements and changes. I say “to force” because what the Commission has tried is also clear: It has tried to pass through this agreement as an EU-only agreement so that it has the sole competence to make all decisions. We have prevented this from happening so far, but we have not yet had the opportunity to draw these poison teeth; we must try this with a common effort in Europe. There is the appeal to the Federal Chancellor and also to you: Close together, including with the Belgian Parliament, also with other parliaments! The discussions that are being held in Germany today are also extremely important. Now alliances have to be concluded to prevent the signing of a contract in advance, for example – and this is my concrete argument in the matter itself – leading to the following results: In the field of agriculture: You mentioned that the Canadians produce such great food. Ladies and gentlemen, hormone meat production, genetic engineering in agriculture, use of hormones such as ractopamin et cetera in pig farming are standard in Canada. Where does the Minister live? The price situation in pigs over the last eight to nine years: Producers in Canada get 60 percent less, and beef gets 25 percent less. So I tell you, if the tariff quotas for beef are really increased by 46 000 tonnes, the tariff quotas for pigmeat are increased to 75 000 tonnes, for wheat to 100 000 tonnes, the little we have got – the 16 000 tonnes of cheese, Mr Minister – does not fatten the herb in that case. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] So it's just not a good deal, even on this level. If the Minister of Agriculture or perhaps the colleague Schultes, when he comes to it, says: Yes, but we have enforced the geographical designations of origin! - Ha, I can only laugh! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Do you know what we've been up to? – Three terms: These were: Styrian cranes – Styrian cranes, there are, yes –, Tyrolean bacon – okay, behind it stands a large company – and the Styrian pumpkin kernel oil. But do you know what we didn't do, for example? – A success story in the dairy sector: Soya milk, as a traditional specialty in Austria, in Europe. [[Call to the ÖVP: She hasn't yet given it!]] The dairy products are not protected and 148 of 1 300 protected EU designations have just been protected. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] – Mr Federal Minister, this is really not a success project [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's just a shame that you really have to say back to the start or at least: Putting poison teeth together, now making alliances together and not giving this pact an agreement! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10811	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10835	Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10850	Before you start your speech, Mrs Pirklhuber's motion for a resolution, which has been drawn up by Mr Pirklhuber, has been properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10927	Please, Mrs Gamon.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e10943	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! [[Call the Greens.]] It's not just the poison teeth you want to pull! I watched the Greenpeace video on CETA and TTIP: a plan to slave for all of us, one fights against the Dark Trade; this is uniquely well-made propaganda and negative campaigning. Karl Rove would be proud of it. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Propaganda?- Oh, my God!]] The morally superior side, which is staged here as the good, and everyone who has a different opinion belongs to the evil side of power and wants to slave for humanity – this has already reached a level of absurdity! I really want to remain objective – we have had an objective discussion at the survey – but it is enough for me! I am really satisfied that the enemies of the future and the objectors on the part of Greens and FPÖ close a joint alliance, with the exception of agreeing once, with the moral cue threatening and continuing to rejoice. The irony: At least I have not missed the fact that the propaganda, which your Members have also organised in the last three years, will perhaps help the candidate up there in his election campaign – if he says he will not sign CETA – is not going by. I hope you'll notice it in the near future. [[Abg. Kogler: That's why we made the survey that you can judge it!]] What is particularly annoying about me is that this ultimately leads to you refusing to spend the next generations the wealth you are enjoying at the moment, because our prosperity comes from free trade, our prosperity comes from international cooperation. [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] We are really alone in European comparison, we stand there alone as the island of irration. We're making fun of ourselves internationally, that's just absurd. The economists agree that CETA is a successful agreement. [[Abg. Kogler: That's not true!]] – Obviously, you can interpret any expert opinion differently: Fritz Breuss said at the survey that the growth, the effects are not so great. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... to look with magnify!]] - Okay, well, there's something between 0.02 and 0.3 percent, depending on the study. Considering that Canada is a very small economic area compared to the European Union, I have to ask: What is this really a decadent attitude? – This is so typical Austrian: Because of prosperity we now close, we already have too much, we are already going too well. However, this is really dangerous in terms of economic growth of 1.5 percent of GDP. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Now you will be adopted at ÖVP!]] If we want to secure prosperity for the next generations, we will have to do something about it. We will also have to ask ourselves where we really want to go. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Do we want to make trade active or do we want to wait for the other parts of the world to take over? Do we really want to buy that our standards are lowered? Do we really want to try to match Canada, which has a left-liberal government and no interest in privatising its state health system? We had a nice debate with the Canadian Minister for Trade, who explained this very well. [[Abg. Kogler: Have you said anything about the contract?]] I think she was just about to despair and wanted to ask: Why do you think we have an interest in the fact that the corporations are coming and privatizing our general provisions? – That’s completely absurd! [[Call the Greens.]] And now we come to it: We all benefit from free trade every day. Everything we have here has something to do with free trade. The vehicles in Austria, cars or perhaps also trains we import from somewhere else, clothing: everything has to do with free trade. That is why, at the end of the day, I would like to repeat the sentence I have already said in the survey: “If one is here in the hall without free trade, he throws his iPhone.”
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11098	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11121	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gamon has now given a speech, which I really liked. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and NEOS.]] I just want to say that. [[Abg. Kogler: You just trust to say that because you didn't read the contract either!]] - Werner! We're so good at each other in private life. Mr Kogler, trust me that I know what I am talking about! I'm not insulting you either! Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a wonderful survey here, and great topics have been raised in this survey. [[Calls to the Greens.]] On the one hand, there have been economists who have clearly explained what it is all about. Then you have experienced how from the very, very left side of the bank and from the very, very right side of the bank the mists have come in. The question was then: Why do they do that? I really wondered why they do, because CETA is an agreement between Europe, a cultivated continent with a high cultural tradition, and Canada, with immigrants from Europe – funnyly with a European head of state, Elisabeth II, who is theoretically still the head of state in Canada. [[Abg. Neubauer: There are still natives there! Or is there only Europeans there?]] The Exciting: We trust the Canadians to put us over the table. That won't be! Nor do we intend to do so because we are Europeans who are cultivated. So where can the problem be? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You didn't get it!]] It's an agreement among friends, good. Question: Then why is there actually these mists? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Because there are arbitration courts and corporate lawsuit rights! That's easy!]] – Simple: It is not about the agreement, it is quite, completely different objectives. Mr Pirklhuber, therefore, comes with his paws and says: The hay milk is not inside. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, but the arbitration courts already!]] So, my colleague Pirklhuber, I've seen you in another league so far. You know very well that it was only a very short time ago that hay milk was registered as a product of European origin. It is proof that it will work, because CETA is a living agreement. You can assume if hay milk has export relevance that it will then stand inside. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You're going through this? That's what I'm looking at!]] [[Abg. Lugar: The school is packing everything!]] The great thing is that it is true and that the colleague Pirklhuber always comes only with his shame. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the NEOS.]] The colleagues from all over the left simply do not want to have a framework for business and rules for people who want to take private, personal risk. They want the state to operate. They want people to get ahead, and their consumer protection is really nothing but the premeditation of people. Such agreements ensure the right for adults to take risks themselves and to put innovation and economic strength into a self-determined life. [[Abg. Lugar: It all comes first with CETA, it didn't exist before?]] The brothers from the right – why does it come from there? – they simply want to make the leaders in Europe bad, talk Europe bad, do not stop that Europe has negotiated a very good agreement, as Mr Bundeskanzler Kern has said – which I really do support literally. He is right, it is the best agreement the EU has ever negotiated. I wish him good luck in his own party. We certainly support him if he agrees to CETA.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11271	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11292	Mr President. [[Abg. Matznetter: Where is the palm oil butter?]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the gallery and watchers in front of the TV sets! Colleague Minzig, that is one of your member companies in the Vöcklabrucker district, he employs about 56 employees and has even been on his own homepage “Stop TTIP and CETA”. [[a table in front of the speaker’s desk, on which a farm, above which the letter “Ways U.S. Competition closed” and “TTIP” are depicted in a red-stretched circle]] [[Abg. Obernoster: Wrong side!]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: You caught the wrong country!]] I think today's discussion is so meaningful, so interesting. With every minute I understand more the citizens I have met all summer with every firmness – whether senior state or country youth events, industrial or economic meetings, workers' meetings or farmers' parties – that are in great concern, because they do not know what will really be decided. I've been in the field service for 32 years. One of my primary education trainers said: Boys, sell it so that in the evening there is no remorse for the customers! – Today, Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner has taught me what the name of Kaufreue is. With the pressure you want to sell with, you want to sell us something we don't need. This is the main problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If you preach something too penetrant, prayer-like – over and over again and again – then something must be lazy. There's got to be something lazy. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] That's exactly what's going on, colleague. Let's go, let's go! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: “Praying mill” was not good!]] Mr. Vice-Kanzler, we have had the hearing in this house – I was more often present than you were. So I was surprised how skeptical the experts were. I was really surprised because I thought: Well, that's where pro-reds are invited, and there's an attempt to make us tasty. They were very reserved. If you are optimistic, you have heard of some: There's a little bit to get, but in the marginal point range. Then we have the experts, starting from Commissioner Hogan, who then immediately explained to us, yes, we need more G.A.-signs. After wonderful: A Dutch Sau, mixed with Polish wood in Tyrol. If we call this our Austrian specialty, Mr Vice-Chancellor, then I am really affected. Expert trick, which is responsible for the division negotiations, has in the Palais Epstein cannot answer the question three times, which division will get problems if we do not sign if we continue to negotiate. I think that all the concerns are justified, and this has been strongly confirmed in this debate today. The German Federal Constitutional Court is dealing with this subject today. Those who have heard the “Morgenjournal” – we have heard it when they learn – know that they are afraid that a parallel justice will be introduced to eliminate national rights. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Of course! That's it!]] I think these concerns are justified. Some speakers have heard that it is. The threat that if we don't sign it, tomorrow there will be no more trade and everything will collapse is sensational! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, a question after so generously passing over my colleague Dietrich: Frank Stronach didn't deserve that either. Now I have even more respect for Frank Stronach, who has developed Magna without CETA and without TTIP. He's a world champion. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] [[Abg. Small: Magna is international!]] He's sensational. Now they're looking for jobs again. If this were to flee in the right direction – cheap production facilities – we would not now be looking for 1,400 jobs in the Magna plants. So we stay a little on the ground, we stay at home a little bit and we don't do quite as big and international as I feared. [[Abg. Little: We have at least foreign investment!]] It is a pity, Mrs.ck, that such a magnat as Frank Stronach is being eroded from Austria. Well, he's investing in Canada, I'm sorry about that. – No, don't laugh, please, Mrs. Colleague! That's the difference. So, and then I can say the following: I appeal to Federal Chancellor Kern – I have also received assurances from Werner Faymann – that he takes seriously the concerns and fears of the citizens that the whole is actually being negotiated or examined again and is not pushed through. I think that is the very essential thing, because the concerns of the Belgians, including the concerns of other countries – now there is the negotiation in Germany – confirm that something is partly not koscher. In conclusion, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I should like to calm you down and mention Mr Hammer, who also believed that the palm oil would then come. That is why, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council will probably come to the view of the Vice-President and Minister of Economic Affairs that in Austria we are actually producing so many products in agriculture that we need to export. Thank God I was at the “In the Centre” discussion when the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment Rupprechter said: We need the agreement so that our organic farmers can export to America. - Wonderful! It seems that it has forgotten from fair trade that 80 percent of organic products are imported in wholesale. So we don't need this senseless traffic. This proves us precisely the whirlwind in Haiti, which proves us the palm oil discussion because Europe is the second largest palm oil importer. If you haven't seen it, please take a look at this sad contribution in the ORF TV library about the clothes that ran on ORF III yesterday. Look at the poor kids in Bangladesh and India! We are proud of how good economists we are here. When are we going to be so ready that we say: Globalisation serves corporations, globalisation serves anonymity, regionalization serves people? The people at the centre, that is our mission, for which the citizens have chosen us.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11448	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11469	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! To CETA: This unholy alliance of left and right populists across the planet is difficult for me to endure. The main road is clumsy to a large extent. It's incredible. The alliance goes from Trump to Le Pen, from the Front National to the AfD to the left in Germany and the Greens in Austria. I wonder, Where to feel in which alliance Are you sure? There you hang around on anti-CETA demos, in a Che Guevara leiberl from Bangladesh, Nike sneakers from Italy and an iPhone from China. I don't think you've switched the brain on, because it's simply unscrupulous that you operate with half-truths and lies. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Stay a little on the ground!]] [[Abg. Hello?- Oh, my God!]] I really ate a bit of green here, that's why Van der Bellen, "The Art of Freedom". [[keeping a book in height]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: A good book, a good book!]] Unfortunately, he doesn't raise his mouth anymore. A year ago, he wrote in “Art of Freedom”: “To be sure, all this needs to be regulated, but the benefits of great freedom of choice for producers like consumers are at hand. Before loud alerts you become too easy deaf and blind to the long-term perspective.” – That’s it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Peter Michael Lingens, dear Green, is more of a left-wing driver among the journalists. He writes in the main book of Van der Bellen, but also of Kern: “At least by Van der Bellen, I – like core – had hoped to defend rational thinking (...) Populistly speaking, it also testifies to the tactic skill – in fact, it is economic folk evaporation by a professor of economics.” I will still choose it because in that case it is a question of alternatives: I want someone who stands with Europe, but I do not think that this kind of half-truth that you are spreading here is intellectually fair. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Give a concrete example!]] [[Abg. Kogler: They all let go and say nothing to the contract!]] The fact that the Federal Chancellor has voluntarily and self-responsibly entered a dead end and now wants to get out through a flip-flopper, I can only shake my head over it. – There is nothing to be seen about state responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11574	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11595	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use my three-minute speaking time to clean up with some more than absurd myths around CETA. Firstly, I am concerned with the propagated negative effects of CETA on public services. One thing to do immediately: These effects are not because CETA – like all other EU trade agreements – is not covered by public services. Rather, the following shall apply: EU countries can maintain state monopolies for certain services. CETA also does not require privatisation or deregulation of public services such as water supply, health care or education. That is to say, the often challenged privatisation of our water supply will simply and simply not exist. It is, of course, great for fear-making. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] Finally, EU countries will also be able to decide for themselves in which areas they want public universal service, including, where appropriate, public support. On the other hand, I am concerned about clarifying investment protection: Austria has already concluded 63 investment protection agreements with other countries. [[Abg. Kogler: They're supposed to disappear!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] On this point, the critics are constantly being told that it is legitimate to conclude such agreements with countries that do not have a strong legal system, but not with Canada as a developed rule of law. But do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that we have concluded such investment protection agreements with 12 countries that are members of the European Union? – For example, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Malta, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Are these not developed states of law? [[Abg. Kogler: This is a relic, it should disappear! That's incredible!]] Let me clear up with another myth related to investment protection agreements: It is always argued that it is an insanity that only foreign but not domestic companies may turn to arbitration courts. Please look at the EU rules! For example, if an Italian company settles in Carinthia or offers cross-border goods or services and is discriminated against by an authority in Carinthia, the Italian entrepreneur may contact the ECJ for breach of the freedom of establishment, goods or services. However, if it is a non-EU company based in Styria, for example, which is the same in Carinthia, there is a mere domestic discrimination to which EU law is not applicable. That is to say, the Styrian entrepreneur cannot turn to the European Court of Justice. Where is the cry of CETA opponents? Does the Austrian entrepreneur suddenly not count as much as in an anti-CETA campaign? So you see, ladies and gentlemen, the disasters that have been reported do not take place and can often be resolved by a serious approach. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11661	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11682	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that CETA is not really about hay milk, nor about iPhone weeds. I do not believe that the world will go down when CETA, as it exists, enters into force – certainly not – but it will not go down if it does not enter into force. You can stay a little on the ground with what this is all about. The criticism in the core, which is directed against the arbitration courts, against private appeals. – They exist. [[Call at the ÖVP:Critics to Core?- Oh, my God!]] There is no fear of the Canadian government, no one believes that the Canadian people want something bad to the Austrians, not vice versa. What it is all about is whether corporations – whether they are Canadian or Austrian corporations – are being put on legal systems via states, about democracy, about the constitution, about legal principles, and that is what is happening. Can a state sue a group before an arbitration court? - No, I don't. Can an employee sue a group before an arbitration court? - No, I don't. It can only complain to one, the group, and it can only complain one, namely the state. This is a special possibility in which corporations are granted rights outside established legal systems. Now one can be of the opinion, yes, to me corporations are the most important, the best, the greatest, the highest, and therefore I want to give them a particularly big position, or one can see this critically. [[Abg. Brosz: This is the Strolz position!]] You can simply discuss this, but here it is pretended that everyone who criticizes CETA is a mistake, is some far-lefter or has anything against free trade. No one will have anything against free trade, and probably 90 percent of the CETA agreement is declared reasonable here, but of course there is rightly also criticism of it. Of course, these special claims are justified, this special position for corporations is rightly criticised. Yeah, it's true: Over 60 agreements have Austria with such arbitrators and for decades nothing has happened, but we have been sued in the meantime. For two years, it has not been the case that Austria is not being sued. We were sued by the Meinl bank two years ago. That's where you think, how can the Meinl bank, which is in Austria, complain about Austria? – Because the owner of the Meinl bank used to be in some kind of Dutch tax haven, that was then transferred to Malta, and we were complained about letterbox companies in Malta. [[Abg. Fekter: And won!]] And this, although we have been in the agreement with Malta, is that letterbox companies are not allowed to complain. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Everyone can complain if he wants!]] – Theoretically, as with Canada, we have written it in. We also wrote in that letterbox companies are not allowed to complain. Practice shows that it is often not as easy as we imagine it. You have to talk about it objectively: If we want companies, do we want to give companies a special position in the company they make about states? Yes or no? Let's talk this out in peace. Neither so nor so has the world gone down. It has not gone down even though we have 60 such contracts, and it does not go down if we do not have one anymore. But the question of what position companies have in society is an important question, and it must be discussed.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11768	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I see no wish for the rapporteur's final word. We therefore come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs and Industrial Affairs to take note of the Stenographic Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on the topic of “CETA and TTIP – The Free Trade Agreements between the EU and its Member States with Canada and the USA”, III-305 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner, colleagues on No to TTIP and CETA. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, colleagues: Do not sign CETA. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:00:28]] 5. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1261, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Supply Security Act 1992 (1276 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (1249, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Mineral Raw Materials Act (1277, e.g.) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (1259 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Machine Transport and Notification G – MING (1278 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11863	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Obernosterer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11890	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! On agenda item 5: Supply security law. I'd like to keep brief: This law exists, but expires at the end of the year. What does this Supply Security Act include? – It is actually the hands of the public authorities to ensure that the population is provided in exceptional cases of crisis. This will be extended for ten years. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] On agenda item 7: Machine-trafficking and notification law. A brief comment was also made on this subject: It is the implementation of an EU directive to be implemented here in the National Council. It is about quality assurance, mainly the machinery transport for lifts, sports boats or equipment, in general very personal protective equipment or appliances for burning gaseous fuels. As I said, it is necessary for us to accept and decide by law. Our authorities are also taking samples and at least looking at these products as to whether they have the conditions for all safety measures. However, I must also note that for these additional controls, which are now under way, no additional control bodies will be set up, but this will be carried out by existing control bodies in a random manner, as I said, so that no additional costs and no additional controls are created in the establishments, but will simply be extended. My documents show that the House will even vote unanimously in favour of these laws. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11930	Next word reported: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11952	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the Mineral Raw Materials Act, which we will also decide today in the course of these decisions. It is a good example that sometimes not only major issues, as we discussed them earlier, should be dealt with and dealt with very small issues. On the one hand, we grant Mr Vice-Chancellor the authorisation to facilitate the authorisation requirements for farmers and business supervisors in mining in all cases where there are no hazardous installations. On the other hand, we are implementing an EU directive, where there are currently no installations in Austria that are affected, and I also believe that Austria has so far opted for CO2 storage for good reasons. We're not going to get rid of that with this novel. By the way, I have the perception that in several European countries the initial euphoria for this carbon capture and storage has decreased, and we will probably also soon ask ourselves what the different EU target scenarios and roadmaps look like when these options, which have been chosen here, prove to be a trick. I would also have liked to say to the Minister for Economic Affairs that I am trying to make it clear to him what it means if the Minister for the Environment announced these days that he will now fight against the German energy transition together with the Visegrád states. I didn't understand, honestly. I understand that there is some critical light on the German energy transition, but I am not sure, on the other hand, whether nuclear and coal-stream countries are the right allies in this context. I would expect to see an appropriate clarification. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] With regard to CETA's comments on the collective agreement, Mr Vice-Chancellor: That's not the subject at all. It is about labour law and the question of whether it should be possible, if it is established that everything is all right, that nothing changes anyway and that everything is lying anyway, that it should not also be possible for the things that are super and so seductive, to be sanctioned if they do not take place. That's what it's all about. In the collective contracts, we're going to take care of ourselves. If only recently the Federation of Printing & Media Engineering has adopted the oldest collective agreement that this Republic has with the dubious remark, well, the wage and social dumping law that we have decided in this House is so complicated, so that they have to put the collective contractual capacity back, then that is more than clear. It's about shooting a good collective contract in the air. [[Abg. - That's right!]] Today, the works councils have made it clear at a large conference that they are not just not going to like this, but that the ladies and gentlemen who have come up with this angle move should get warm, because there will be regular discussions in the next few days. I just like it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e11994	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12016	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: We will support the amendment, the amendment to the Machine Transport and Notification Act and also the Mineral Raw Materials Act in this form. This brings me to the Supply Security Act, where we have a novel that we essentially support. Nevertheless, I would also like to say in the debate that the questions raised by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce are to be debated here. On the one hand, it concerns the relevance and timeliness of the product groups listed in the Annex. The times are changing and, of course, the consumption needs and other areas that are subject to constant change. In this respect, you should adapt exactly that in case of such changes. At the same time, of course, it is a matter of whether transport services in passenger and freight transport are also taken into account. One important point that has been raised is the issue of administrative simplification. Mr State Secretary, this is an ever-increasing issue that, as we believe, needs to be addressed very consistently. There would have been a possibility, too. At the same time, we believe that there are various possibilities of simplification in many other areas – in the trade regulations, in the field of plant permits. This should also be addressed consistently. But we will now also support this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12058	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12079	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Katzian, you have criticised the alliance of the Minister for the Environment that he is opposed to German electricity policy as it is currently being handled. I don't think everything the receiver doesn't understand is really the sender's fault. But if you don't understand that you have to express yourself against the fact that the most cheap German coal electricity is making the competitiveness of renewable energy worse in Austria, then this is already very interesting. Because that's exactly the case: We are in distress with the production of green electricity and with the hydropower in Austria when the European electricity market is flooded with such cheap electricity, where the Germans in their own current account can ultimately take a positive advantage, but we are at risk in the structures. We are also in the Supply Security Act. Because policy's responsibility means building confidence here that the population has secured supply in the future, which is an important point both in energy and in nutrition. If we do not manage to maintain our own production sovereignty in Austria, whether it be in energy, especially in the biogenic sector, or also in food, then we will have much, much bigger problems. We do not need to complain about TTIP, CETA or other free trade agreements, because the problems we have in Austrian agriculture can be discussed tomorrow with the Green Report, and they already have enormous effects. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] We have not yet negotiated any of these agreements. Rather, this is the pressure we are being pressured over the oligopol in the food retail trade in Austria, because we have only a small number of suppliers that ultimately have to meet demand, and we have enormous pressure on agriculture that food sovereignty in Austria is likely to be at risk in the long term. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Only a solid work in tax policy will continue to help us maintain this food security and thus also ensure long-term supply. These precautionary laws are important and good for this, but only the long-term general policy can also help to keep production in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12122	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12143	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear audience at the gallery! The supply security law, i.e. that law, which provides for precautions for cases of crisis, is an extremely important step. Now is the National Day, where we celebrate the independence, freedom of Austria, and we are here in the National Council Hall, in other words in a hall built in the fifties, after a difficult time, since many things had been bombed in the Second World War. Even if we are very good at this moment, it is a fact that there are times again and again, where not everything goes well and where not everything goes smoothly. The long Austrian history is full of moments of crisis, of unrest. I remember, for example, the Christmas address of Leopold Figl, who at that time could not even promise coal and a piece of bread for Christmas. Who wants it more up-to-date: The terrorist attacks of recent times also need a clear answer, but not fear, but clear guidelines and measures. Policy, if taken seriously, must take care of difficult times. We know that responsibility is better than concern, and responsibility is more expensive than populism. Is it necessary to prepare for a crisis? – I say quite clearly: Yes, it is! Not because we are awaiting a crisis, but because we take our responsibility seriously, we are adopting this law today. Even if I wish that this hope should never be needed, it is an important law for extraordinary crises. It finds my full support as a Social Democratic. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12177	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12198	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On the Supply Security Act 1992: This law is a legal basis for steering measures for the public sector – we have already heard this today – to provide the population with goods in exceptional cases of crisis. This law would come into force at the end of the year. The new Decision will be extended until 2026. The aim of this law is to ensure the maintenance of a high and vital security of supply for the population in cases of crisis. Crisiss often occur faster – we have just heard from my predecessor – than one believes. Just think of Chernobyl and the like, how fast it can go, and everything is different from today to tomorrow! That is why it is right, good and necessary that the public authorities have the means to ensure the provision of services to the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12222	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12246	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Our group will give its assent to all three amendments. With these innovations, we extend the supply security law and implement EU guidelines on the Mineral Raw Materials Act as well as on the so-called MING. The MING is nothing but an update of those safety provisions currently contained in the safety regulation on personal protective equipment and in the Gas Device Safety Regulation. We continue to guarantee the high standards for lifts, sports boats and much more and also increase the safety in the use of devices in hazardous zones. At the same time, we are harmonizing standards with those in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately – and this is not uninteresting – supply bottlenecks and especially shortages for political and economic reasons can never be completely excluded. Even in Austria, such cases can never be completely excluded. Unfortunately, there are natural forces and natural disasters again and again, there are also major technical failures, boycott measures. Unfortunately, the issue of terrorism is also on the agenda again and again. Such things must be responded quickly and quickly. That is why this innovation is also very important for our Republic. The aim is to ensure security of supply for our people in the event of such crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12279	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12300	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The time-limited supply security law expires at the end of 2016 and needs to be extended. This law is the legal basis for public policy measures to provide the population with goods in exceptional cases of crisis. In concrete terms, this means that in exceptional crisis situations the government must be able to steer the flow of goods in such a way as to ensure high security of supply for the population, businesses and public institutions. What are such exceptional crises? – These are natural forces, comprehensive technical failures or boycott measures, but also terrorist attacks. Ladies and gentlemen, many of these events occur without prior notice, such as huge floods, as we have already had, but also the reactor accidents of Chernobyl and Fukushima are such crises. Steering measures shall require the adoption of appropriate regulations. There must be a legal instrument in place to be able to act quickly and efficiently from the State side and to respond to crisis and scarcity phenomena that are not approachable by market economy measures. So far, it has always been the case that this law was provided with a time-limit. This amendment, which also contains editorial amendments, now provides for a re-examination of the period of validity, with a period of time of up to 31. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12338	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law amending the Supply Security Act, including title and receipt in 1261 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give a positive signal. – The draft law has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a positive signal. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law amending the Mineral Raw Materials Act, including title and receipt in 1249 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a positive sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft Federal Act amending the Machine Transport and Notification G, together with the title and receipt in 1259 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law to give a corresponding sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, in order to give an indication of this. – This draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[16:21:17]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (1254 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on Qualifications of Ingenieurin and Ingenieur (Ingenieurgesetz 2017 – IngG 2017) (1279 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12436	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Maurer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12463	Madam President. Mr Mahrer, Minister of State. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers and viewers! As the first speaker on this item on the agenda, I would like to briefly explain what this draft government is about. The title is to be increased to Level 6 of the National Qualifications Framework. He is to be awarded if you make an HTL matura, after which he worked three years and after that he also held a professional talk with two experts. This conference lasts 45 minutes, there is no exam, and there is no notice for this conversation. To the general statement: What is the National Qualifications Framework, what does Level 6 mean in the Qualifications Framework? – Level 4 is the AHS-Matura, level 5 is the BHS-Matura and level 6 is actually Bachelor's level, i.e. a university degree. This level 6 will be awarded to HTL graduates in the future. The two reasons given by the government for wanting to do so are: Firstly, there are obviously problems in international calls for tenders when the good qualifications of HTL graduates are too low. Secondly, Next year, there will be the centenary of the Imperial Regulation for the management of the ‘Ingenieur’ stand. – That is why we obviously wanted to adopt this law here, which is stated in the explanations. We have discussed the question of this classification in detail and also very differentiated. We understand in principle the above-mentioned labour market and economic policy reasons why one would like this title to be so high now. In this discussion, however, we also concluded that the measure – a Matura plus three years of work plus any conversation – is not enough to achieve the qualification level of a Bachelor's degree. It is completely out of question that training at an HTL offers the possibility of acquiring a good qualification. This is a pleasure because there are much more interested people than places in the HTLs, which generally applies to the MINT subjects. We must certainly think about how we can improve the offer, but nevertheless a HTL matura plus three years of work are not comparable to a study. One study means three years of full-time study, regular examinations and certificates of performance, writing of work and so on, with a curriculum which clearly explains which learning goals need to be achieved and so on. Such a study with a corresponding degree can not be compared to a conversation that is conducted with two experts. One also has to say that the HTL-Matura has already been trained at academic level and that the academics-Quote is beautified. It has risen from 20 to 30 percent last year, and the same now threatens with this change. By the way, the argument was the same at the time, it also said: There are problems in the economy, so this needs to be classified higher. Apart from the problem that this is simply not comparable, this proposal for a law will also ignore the applicable law of the National Qualifications Framework. This is because it provides for quite different bodies, namely the coordination body, which is intended to examine the award of such a level of qualification. Why this is happening here is not quite clear. It's clear that it can't be that someone with an HTL matura plus three years of working through a conversation can then be admitted to a master's degree. There are great protests, including from the universities, which have also given comments. All in all, this is a very unforgettable law, and we will not accept it for the above reasons. Perhaps one should have taken some more time in the preparation of this and should not have brought an unforgivable template – advocating the centenary anniversary. One should have considered how one can actually verify informally learned and skills acquired in professional practice in such a way that this is also detectable. This is certainly not the case with a simple conversation that is not an examination and where there is no even a note. We don't get our approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12502	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12523	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers! The status name ‘engineer’ is awarded about 5,000 times a year. However, it is only recognised by us – that is, in the domestic economy. In the case of international tenders or applications, it is therefore often a little difficult with their recognition. I am therefore very pleased that today, with a very broad majority in Parliament, we have achieved a clear improvement with the Engineering Act. It is a pity that the Greens are not going along, but they are not entirely agreeable in their criticism points themselves, as we have now heard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] The economy has been complaining of the shortage of skilled workers for a very long time, and we are rightly proud of our dual training and the many skilled engineers. But, as I said, it's not enough, everyone talks about the shortage of skilled workers. On the other hand, the universities are bursting out of all the seams. In the last winter semester, nearly 400,000 young people enrolled 1.4 percent more than in the previous year, but the number of apprentices fell by 4.4 percent to almost 110,000 apprentices. Unfortunately, however, it is true that academics – especially those who use so-called orchid subjects, I say now, prove – often flower unemployment, while HTL students are often approached by companies during schooling and may get an attractive offer. Germany faces similar challenges. The economists of the Commerzbank's Economic Research Center see one of the main problems for the economy in the undifferentiated academic process, and so many great professionals were not now among the migrants, as some followers of the fatal welcome culture wanted us to know. So it must be up to the state to guide young people in a positive direction towards meaningful training. It is also in the greatest interest of the young people themselves, because we already have jobless orchid academics. There is probably no more humiliating feeling for young people than not being needed. Thanks to our successful dual training, we are still in a better position than most other EU countries, where youth unemployment is on average 20 percent – in Austria it is 10 percent – but also we face major challenges on our labour market. We have almost half a million or, depending on the calculation method, 400 000 unemployed and currently 42 000 open jobs. Despite the enormous budget in the labour and social sectors, it is not possible to occupy these open positions. As no effective action has apparently been taken, labour market costs alone have increased by around 40 percent over the last five years, and the related social expenditure has increased by 45 percent over the last ten years. So there is an urgent need to do something! The causes of high youth unemployment and unemployment are, of course, not exclusively to look for so many young people to study sociology, politology or communication sciences – which may sometimes be helpful for a political career – but are mainly in the lack of competitiveness of the location and rigidity of labour market regulations. That is why we must fight for our economic location: down with the tax and tax rate, down with the debt, away with the overregulation! As a politician, we must shape the framework conditions in such a way that the greatest goal of young people is no longer to be able to live as quickly as possible at land, federal or other places and to retire early, but to be creative, to start companies, to take entrepreneurial risk. – The start-up package of the Minister of Economic Affairs is a good step in the right direction. A friend of mine is a folk school teacher, and she told me that when she asked her fourth-class, what she wanted to become, unfortunately, the answer was often: I'm going AMS! – This shows that there are completely false incentives in our social system. It is very crucial for how high or how low unemployment is, so-called employability, that is: Can you get busy? – This ability is mediated by training. I would like to mention France as a particularly dissuasive example: Almost the entire French leadership elite comes from a Grande École, Sciences Po, a political union with a great reputation. The so-called elite, who may well be trained in media science and political sciences, is now driving this country completely to the wall, because it simply understands too little about industry, economy, technology and finance. This applies not only to France, but also to Europe as a whole and, of course, to Austria. The leadership elite needs to know that we need an industrial and economically strong economy to maintain our prosperity. The highest recognition, therefore, of our engineers who help bring our country forward, and I hope that it will also be more women in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12603	The next item is the speech by Mr Kirchgatter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12624	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Rightly, we Austrians are proud of the proverbial engineering! Alois Negrelli, builder of the Suez Canal, and Carl Ritter of Ghega, the builder of the Semmering Railway, are all well-known to us, but even now, today, the engineers in the domestic economy are highly appreciated and recognized. The term ‘engineer’/“ingenieurin” is awarded 5 000 times a year in Austria, i.e. a large professional group. Today's decision provides an appreciation for this professional group by assigning its classification to a Bachelor's degree. This equality brings a higher classification at European level. The prerequisites for this are standards for the assessment of the necessary practice, and these are created by this law. This is in line with the European Qualifications Framework, and in this way this certification procedure brings this possibility. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen, this new regulation, this new law benefits many, of course those concerned, but also the Austrian economy, the Austrian companies. In the case of calls for tenders, they can represent this high level of qualification and thus be better classified – a decision that is positive for the Austrian labour market. It has already been mentioned, and I would like to underline: The HTL exitrs are used by the economy and are very popular. What makes me very happy personally is that the practical implementation of the knowledge learned in the school in operation with the new law is more appreciated and thus more valuable. It is very important for the future of our economic location that we also reflect our strengths accordingly that we also focus on our professional groups, which make up these economic strengths. – This is what happens with this law. I think it is a good step, a good law, and the concerns that will always exist are not of that quality that one could really equate them with the criteria in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12672	Mr Wurm. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12694	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Fathers. Today, we are discussing the Engineering Act Newly, and we will agree to this law. I say consciously, with a heavy heart, because the goal is the right one, but the implementation is very, very clumsy. I'll try to explain that. It may be quite good that you, Secretary of State Mahrer, are here in the representation of Vice-President Mitterlehner, because we also meet again and again in the teaching committee, since they are responsible for the tertiary field. I have to pick up a little before we talk about the Engineering Act – colleague Maurer has already tried it –: In principle, it concerns the NQR, the National Qualifications Framework, which then also involves the EQF, the European Qualifications Framework. Since 2012, we have tried with various applications to write the following into this NQR: that HTL engineers are classified after examination and so on in Stage 6. It would have been very, very simple to add that to the NQR Act, which we decided this spring, to § 3(2). [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser]] But this has not been done by red and black, just as they have not managed to complete this NQR, where work has been under way since 2009; The target would be 2020. So how one can take a decade for such a simple story is a mystery to me. This is a red and black bankruptcy statement. And we're already experiencing that with the simplest things. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Conlusio: It would have been quite easy to classify the HTL engineer at level 6 at the NQR. What do red and black do now? – They are trying to implement a parallel law, namely engineering law New, here – we will nevertheless agree – and they are putting in a very complicated law the “engineer” a bit new, so that it might then fit into the NQF at level 6. To do that, you have to: that it does not exist in this engineering law that HTL engineers are now classified in Stage 6 but that will then take place again in the NQR. I say it again: NQR is a bureaucracy sample created in spring 2016. We have three bodies with different supplies, which have not yet become active. That is, it was decided in spring 2016, and it is still an inactive story in autumn 2016. Let's go to the Engineering Act. New: Mrs. Maurer, you didn't do it quite correctly, there's actually an exam, that is, if I have my HTL matura and if I can prove my practice, then now in the new HTL law I have to go to a conversation, to an exam with two testers. [[Abg. Maurer shakes his head no more]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] – Then you have to read it carefully! You have to go to an exam with two testers, one from the corresponding subject, e.g. electrical engineering or whatever, and one from the university, and only then, if both keep the thumbs up, then you have your engineering title, one of the two keeps the thumbs down, then you won't get an engineering title. You have to explain this to someone, because that means once again – after all the processes, Matura, work and so on – you are almost forced to get the engineering title, sit in front of a panel and tell everything there again, to let questions please you, and then perhaps someone says: No, I don't like that! So that's one thing you usually can't explain outside in practice. What's new? – It costs approximately €300. That is to say, it will set up its own certification body, where you can then take this test, which will cost 300 €, i.e. there is again an extremely bureaucratic effort. There are just a few questions left summa summarum. I would like to put it here again, Mr State Secretary, namely: Why must this be so bureaucratic in Austria, even now, 2016? Once it was the ÖVP's promise to delete two for each new law – in doing so, you will manage to create three new ones by means of a law. A piece of art! Then the question would have to be asked: What are you doing with the old HTL engineers? Is there a two-class company with the engineers now? Do they have to issue the engineering title or do they have to re-check it? How is that regulated? It's not explicitly in the law. I would also be interested in the following story: Minister of Finance Schelling said in his opinion that he would even abolish the engineers. So this should be explained to the 150 000 active employees in Austria, who come from an HTL and, above all, do a great job for the private sector. Explain to them that they have the engineering title for nothing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For me, this engineering law remains open to so many questions that we in the Group have considered whether we can agree to the content. We do it because it at least shows that the HTL school or training as an HTL engineer has a certain value, only it would have been much easier to deal with the engineer at level 6 in NQR than to make a law of its own. Mrs Maurer! I know the greens always have a dark standing with the university, but I can give you one as information – I would also like to ask Mr Mitterlehner today: Germany is much further, there are the masters of craftsmen, painters, masters and so on, in the level 6 classified, speak at Bachelor's level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] In Austria, however, we are still discussing the masters of craftsmanship in conjunction with level 5. That's what I'm saying quite clearly: If Germany arranges the masters of craftsmanship at level 6, we will hopefully be the first HTL engineer in Austria to be 6 levels, but also the master craftsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12803	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12830	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! Title membership, namely the way we deal with titles and the importance we attach to them, is an Austrian uniqueness. In order that Mr Breitfuss may also be called “Ingenieur” Breitfuss, this law is now being amended. This should lead to a certain value being created. Mr Maurer said perfectly correctly: With 380 000, we recorded an increase of 1.4 percent, while the number of apprentices dropped to 110 000, which means a decrease of 4.4 percent. At the same time, we also have a 6 percent reduction in HTL graduates. So, as an entrepreneur, it's all about us having a shortage of skilled workers. Whether it's engineers or hotel merchants, it doesn't matter. The lack of skilled workers, training, apprenticeship training, as well as the corresponding training are very important. This is very important so that we have experts in the future. It is also about, and not only about cultivating more title hamsters. In so far as I believe that although we are fighting or solving a symptom with this law, we are not going to get to the bottom of the matter. We should be aware that there is still a need in this country for people who work in a craftsmanship and who also have appropriate professional training. And the professional training is particularly high in the HTLs and is especially appreciated. The skilled workers or the graduates of the HTLs are actually torn out of school because we have too few in this country. We should promote this because the entrepreneurs in this country need these professionals. That is why we support it. We also support Mr Worm's approach – although I am doing very hard, because it does not show exactly what the proposal is, what is going to happen and how it should happen. The word “automatic” is generally a problem in the FPÖ application. So, basically, this is quite good, but I ask the National Council to consider it again: How do we create the jobs of the future? How do we create the jobs of the future in the field of leisure activities? What new worlds of work need to be found by entrepreneurs in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12871	Mr Mahrer spoke next. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12892	Madam President. High house! Just a few brief explanations and clarifications [[Abg. Jarolim: Yes, that's important!]] We all probably agree in this House that, in the context of the publication of the last OECD evaluation report "Education at a Glance 2016", we need to work together to ensure higher qualification and further qualification at all levels. It is precisely the dual qualification and, in this sense, the qualification of theoretical training in conjunction with a practical one that plays a decisive role in the context of the changing economy, I believe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] If we now say that we are making a next development step on the basis of a law that this House has not decided until spring, and we are creating for a large number of people in this country who will still be training in this field in the future, and, moreover, for those who have already enjoyed such training in the same way, the opportunity to get to Stage 6 from Level 5 of the National Qualifications Framework, then this is a good story. It is a double good story, a win-win situation: that is, for the individual people themselves, but also for the respective companies in which these people are employed. It has been mentioned the advantage of international comparability, in that it is a matter of being able to keep up with calls for tender, because it can be demonstrated on the basis of professional experience in the sense of dual qualifications. This is a question of practicality, and there is clearly a difference here between the approach of the Liberal Group and that of the Green Group, which should now be dealt with. I believe that in the government template a very reasonable way is chosen, namely to say that one makes additional – in the sense of the law adopted in spring, for otherwise, the skill leap, the famous jump from level 5 to stage 6 is not possible – talks in the sense of validation. [[Abg. Maurer:... in other bodies!]] Here too, very clear criteria are laid down, and the criteria must also be laid down in detail by the Minister for Economic Affairs. There are not two people sitting down and there is some conversation from Jux and Tolery, but it takes place on the basis of clear and transparent criteria a validation discussion – and that is the decisive: the quality criteria! – in order to be able to make this jump to level 6. From our side, this is an extremely useful thing that will probably take advantage of a whole, very large number of graduates of all the disciplines there will be in the future. All those who so far have the standing title – who will not accept them, quite the contrary – if they have the qualification, and they will all have the opportunity, on the basis of professional experience, to use this validation talk in addition to the stand title they have to make the classification in this group 6, and thus they will again have the opportunity to participate in all these international calls for tenders for their companies. [[Abg. Peter Worm: But the old ones also have to recapitulate it?]] - Yes, of course. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: This is a clear statement!]] - That's right. Why should there be a difference between those who make it new and those who so far have this designation? That is only right, cheap and fair, and that is a very welcome law in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12974	Next, Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e12998	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should also like to express my warm thanks to you, the representatives of the opposition parties who today agree to this law. It is all the more incomprehensible to me that the Greens here insist on their contravention. Mrs Maurer, the arguments you have put forward would make it more complicated to build new obstacles, further tests. That's not a way for me to be practical! – You are in your little world, judge this world as you want it to, but the universe is different outside. [[Abg. Oillinger: Your world is quite small too!]] They have said that demand is still greater than supply at the HTLs. These times have long passed, that has already been said by Mr Schellhorn. In this school year, which started about a month ago, we have never had so few HTL beginners; in Tyrol it is less than 1 000 for the first time. You also said that possible access to Master's degree is not provided for by this upgrade, and especially in the HTL segment and also in the general MINT area, where we are here – mathematics, computer science, natural sciences, technology – there is enormous demand and also great potential for creating new jobs in this area. There, according to forecasts, international and national institutes are expected to grow above average, namely 4 percent. Some 40 000 new jobs could be created in the MINT area alone by 2020, but we do not find the employees. Instead of interpreting and building new obstacles here, we should be glad that we have people who take this burden and say: It is worth it to me, so that I would like to make this examination talk to our stand title “Ingenieur” too! In industry, about two thirds of all higher-qualified employees come from the HTL and from related specialist schools in the technical field. There is no loser here, there are actually only winners: the graduate even after a three-year professional internship and this conversation, but also the employer. In one point I would like to tell Mr Schellhorn: We need skilled workers at all levels, whether in the apprenticeship field, whether in the school field or in the academic field. One point that is very important to me in the MINT area concerns the question: How can we get more women in this area? Still about 60 percent of all female apprentices opt for the teaching as a salesperson, office merchant or hairdresser. These are – you know – not exactly the best paid jobs. There are great opportunities in the technical and scientific fields. You can earn more, because you have good jobs all year round, there are also good time models, there are opportunities for women. We should therefore consider how we can lead women into the technical field. There are great projects in every federal country, I think. We in Tyrol have founded on the sides of the social partners together with the state government and the National School Council www.jobsreise.at, where parents, educators and children can inform themselves and make businesses their offer. I hope that this will be accepted well, and may I ask the Greens once again to give themselves a back and to vote in favour of this law, as did all the other parties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13036	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13058	Madam President. In addition to my previous comments and also because State Secretary Mahrer was unable to provide really exhaustive information, I allow myself to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13103	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13179	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1254 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give a positive sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues, on the automatic upgrading of existing HTL/HLFL engineers at level 6 of the National Qualifications Framework. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[16:55:00]] 9. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (1258, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the High School and Student Law 2014 and the Fachhochschule Studiengesetz (1281 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 1228/A by Dr Andreas F. Karlsböck, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the High School and Higher School Law in 2014 (1282 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13265	We now come to Agenda items 9 and 10 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Karlsböck was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13292	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This is mainly an adjustment of the last ÖH electoral order, namely the one from 2014. Due to shortcomings in the last election of the ÖH, especially in the famous election of letters or due to the shortcomings in the Kuverts, which occurred at the last election of the Federal President, as well as due to other things, we have to adapt here. For many reasons, we reject the now forthcoming amendment of the High School Law, which I am now going to explain more closely. The novelle is remarkable in that it shows how politically this country is measured by two measures, for example in the planned revision of the letter election. In the context of the re-election of the Federal President's election, we have always been accused of restricting or even abolishing the choice of letters in order to exclude large sections of the population from the vote. Apart from the fact that this is a polemicly shortened representation, the present draft of the High School Act goes much further, but, see, nobody sees a problem in it. In the case of a repetition of the ÖH election, there is no longer any choice of letter at all. In other words: All those students who stay abroad at the time of election – for whatever reason – have no chance to vote. Early elections should also be possible at the ÖH election, but not at the Federal Presidential and Federal elections – completely incomprehensible, especially since pre-election days have proved themselves best in Styria, for example. It is also massive to criticise that in the decision-making of the now innovative ÖH law from 2014 students from private universities were made forced members of the student representation, although they were even less in agreement with the Party-political agitation of the alleged student representation and are than the compulsory payers at the public universities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I should like to remind you that less than a quarter of the students have participated in the election, which, in turn, means that more than three out of four students have lost confidence in their standing representation. At the largest university in the country, the University of Vienna, the participation in 2015 fell to 21.7 percent and is therefore significantly below the average of the federal government. In 2015, the private universities found well under 10 percent of students to vote, leading to some absurd results. With the participation of 5 per cent, political groups have won the majority of the mandate by five votes! The voter participation in the Danube-Uni Krems of 0.54 percent at the 2015 ÖH election has finally exceeded the border to the Macaberen: Only every 200. Students considered the choice to be useful! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thus, the abolition of the anachronistic compulsory memberships, which we have always called for, by the way, not only at the ÖH Vienna, but especially there, can be seen as overdue and the full and planned integration of the private union into the system of forced happiness as a step in the completely wrong direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Only voluntary membership of a student parliament will lead in the medium term to the consideration of the true high-political concerns of all serious students. The two competing racing clubs ARBÖ and ÖAMTC continue to find acceptance and trailers in the rough competition, without the latter being downgraded to forced customers. The end of compulsory membership would finally end with the waste of forced membership contributions for left-wing agitation and questionable projects. The constituency clearly proves that a strong majority of students do not understand the disturbing minority programme of the real existing and, in some cases, very puberty ÖH and want to reflect on truly serious high-political core issues and a service-oriented representation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, the Austrian high school organisation has equated the abolition of ÖH compulsory contributions with the abolition of the ÖH itself. So I'd mean, Ladies and gentlemen should show a little more self-confidence. We cannot, of course, take this argument off of course, because, if that were the case, all commercial service providers, as has been said, would have long been in bankruptcy. But we know that the opposite is the case. It always swings the fear of the left denominators with them that the money of the others goes out. This also applies to the representation of students at universities. And instead of constantly yelling, the ÖH should once ask itself if it would not be more sensible to offer more service than to operate ideological agitation at the lowest level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the abolition of this compulsion did not find a majority in this House, I would at least have expected that our request for a reduction in the contributions to study would have been accepted, as it would have illustrated the lack of acceptance of the student representation in the low participation in the ÖH election. We were also signalled to reject this. We liberals will not agree to this draft law because of the reasons given.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13392	Next, Mr. Dr. Däderle will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13416	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The so-called compulsory membership of the ÖH today is not actually for debate, but for the novice of a law that regulates the ÖH elections. However, I would like to comment briefly on the subject: I am quite sure with you, Dr. Karlsböck, that such things are not to be tabulated, but rather the subject, although I know that we have many such memberships in Austria and, of course, many wish that we do not touch on this issue. However, I am not one of those. But I'm saying that you have to value the oil. Even though sometimes things happen here and there that don't make you particularly happy, in my many years of experience as a universityman and in science policy, I have always appreciated the very constructive contributions of ÖH members and see their participation in the university decision-making processes as something very valuable. It may be possible to organize it differently, but in general it is difficult to organize it differently, but you can of course debate it. But now on the subject that we have to decide here today, namely the novel of the law on the choice of high school. Elections have been a very special and delicate business since younger times, and we are responding to it in this novel by trying to take into account things that we have learned and learned during the Federal Presidential election – I think that is good. A second need for action has emerged in particular from the fact that we have formed so-called clusters in the course of pedagogy education, in which students study at several institutions, so we also need to find new rules for this. Our rules look so that we do not allow them to be elected to all the institutions they study, but at least to two. These are the two most important areas. There is also a greater amount of details to which I am not going in now. I think these two things are to be regulated, and it is important that they be regulated. In conclusion, however, I would like to raise another point which I also mentioned in the Committee: We are, of course, producing a higher regulatory density through this novelle. These laws are becoming ever closer, more precise, ever more detailed, and thus, of course, there is the danger – and it is growing – that we are going to violate any regulation in some place again. Our general goal should be not to complicate things, not to detail them, but to simplify them. Unfortunately, only in the current status is no different, and therefore I naturally ask for approval of this novelle.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13459	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13480	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The amendment of the High School Law and the Fachhochschule Studiengesetz has become necessary for two reasons: on the one hand, because, of course, it also needs to be adapted to the Education Act, and on the other hand, because in this novel, the questions of the right to vote are simply clarified in more detail. The reorganisation in this novel, especially when it comes to the register of voters, is on and on and on, a well thought out, certainly very well translated and active layer. Thus, for example, the SV numbers are intended to clarify double registrations or double voting fees for those students who have a jointly established study at two educational institutions. That is a very good and welcome thing. The reorganisation of the electoral register also includes the regulation on how to define an electoral commission in the very first elections, and the possibility of a break in the electoral of technical problems, et cetera et cetera. The fact is that this provision is intended to include a simpler organisation and thus will bring benefits to all parties involved. I would particularly like to highlight two points which we consider very positive: On the one hand, the working students have now been given the opportunity to participate more easily in the election. That is to say, in view of the low participation rate, this is quite a positive point. What we also like very well is the associated transparency, but with this innovation there are also determinations on the collection of ÖH contributions; the increased transparency in their use is now quite certain for us. The annual estimate and the annual accounts, together with the written results of an audit, must be published on the ÖH homepage in the future. For us, this is an essential contribution to greater transparency. Perhaps a word on the TOP 10, Mr Karlsböck's request: This would have been a very interesting step in the right direction for us, namely to change the ÖH slowly to another form of financing or to voluntary contributions. I know that this request will be rejected, but in the end the goal – in our opinion too – should be to remove no compulsory fees, but to place them on voluntary contributions. That is why I would have found this proposal quite interesting. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13526	Next, Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13547	Ladies and gentlemen! This law is about regulating the elections of the student representation, making adjustments, as regards the need that arose from the new educational training, which provides for students to study at several educational institutions. One would now like to make it possible for them to vote in two educational institutions when they choose to represent them. For working students, the possibility of creating a preference for the weekend for job-related offers is to be provided so that the professionals can vote at the end of the weekend. There will also be the corresponding adjustments during the election of the Federal President so that there will not be any unsatisfying events. I am very sorry and politically concerned that there is a weakening of student representation over and over again in this context, because nothing else is the intention of this request by the Freedom Party. When it comes to considering why voting participation is so low and how to raise voting participation, not only in the ÖH election, but also in the ÖH election, I am immediately present. I think this is a very important discussion. However, I do not think it is right to consider how the student representation can be weakened. Of course, it is important that students also have a strong, properly supported and equipped political representation – that is the ÖH. The ÖH is an important political representation and an important representation of interests. [[Abg. Kickl: This is a sect at the university!]] And this must be accepted, even if the majority relations that result from the elections to the student parliament do not correspond to your political and worldly interests. When you talk to the representatives of the high school, you will also have to admit that there you will always get an excellent expertise-based information on the relevant materials. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Just like the Café Rosa?- Oh, my God!]] I have always perceived the representatives of the Austrian high school – and there have been different electoral results – as very constructive and competent political representatives. Although the political representation of students is very important, the high schooling not only covers this task, but also offers a wide range of advice and support to which my colleagues will continue to address. This law was also negotiated in advance by the Ministry with the Austrian University School, the representative of the students' interests. I believe that this shows respect and appreciation for the importance of this representation of interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13619	Mrs Maurer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13641	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! I'll go straight to this law. It was created from an evaluation and was developed together with the ÖH. In principle, this should be agreed on in all respects, or in almost all. There is a small critical point that we need to look at in order to see how it develops. In future, students will be able to charge additional costs from the university, according to HSG, if they hold events at the universities. And it can also be collected deposits. We must be careful that this does not lead to abuse. I remember my time at ÖH when the then rector Gantner forbade us to distribute information material, because it is paper and burns paper, and that is incompatible with the fire protection regulations of the University. That was such a shock against us. And with this section in the law, i.e. to keep deposits in advance or to charge additional costs for any things that arise at the university, one must be careful that it is not abused. But we're going to observe this closely. [[Abg. Kickl: purpose!]] Otherwise, consent to this novelle is given. However, I would like to comment, of course, on the attempt by the FPÖ to weaken the ÖH again today, of course also by the NEOS, which will make a request for an opt-out from the ÖH. At this point, I would like to draw your attention to something quite general, which you may not be fully aware of, in particular, of the financing of the ÖH. What happens to these 18,70 € that the ÖH takes? – 70 cents... [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Hafenecker.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Hardly stupid!]] – Listen to me, Mr. Kickl! There's something else you can learn. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is an accident insurance for students. If the chemical lab burns down, they're insured. If they have an accident on their way to college, they are insured. This is one of the services. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] From the remaining 18 €... – Mr Kickl! [[Abg. Kickl: And that can't be solved differently? When the students know what is financed by it!]] Listen, try a little! Don't wake up like that, Mr. Kickl! Of the money taken by the ÖH, the Federal Office receives only 12.5 percent, the Federal Office, which is looking at such a thorn because of your incredibly bad election results in this body. This only gets 12 percent of this money. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: 12 percent is too much!]] The rest of the money goes to the university's representatives, the study representatives, who do all the work in the Senates, curriculum committees and study representatives. These do the daily consulting work, these talk to the students every day. They help them in the tests and so on. [[Abg. Hafenecker: And demonstrations!]] This work is not as visible as the other works, which are at least as important, namely the political work of representing the students at the federal level, in the public, in the media and in the ministry. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Kitzmüller.]] The attempts to weaken the ÖH are old, we already know them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The ÖH is critical and the ÖH is unpleasant. That's their job. Students were always the group or a social group that has promoted social development. And the ÖH will continue to do so, even if you do not agree. [[Abg. Kickl: How is voting participation? Why don't they go to the choice?]] It is not compatible with democracy, Mr Kickl, that those institutions that do not produce the results of the election, which you wish for yourself, are simply abolished! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13774	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13795	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! The novelle contains many important minor changes, which are also aimed at facilitating access to the OH election. That is something we explicitly welcome. There are a few points I would like to deal with in detail. This is on the one hand that we show more sensitivity in the area of data security, what the § 6 para. 3 concerns: ‘the free or free transfer of data and media for the purpose of unlawful use to third parties’. This is about student data, where the criminal framework has now been increased if these are passed on. Those who have ever participated in an ÖH election know that the topic of student data or the electoral directory has always been such a topic that has repeatedly led to problems, and that in some cases there has also been very unfair treatment with student data in the past. On the other hand, we also have a lower handling of data, in that the social security number of students is further used for identification. We would have proposed that an explicit deadline should be set here when the use of the social security number has an end. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but can still come. Positive emphasis should also be placed on the changes in the annual forecast, where transparency is needed, as this should be published. We also expressly welcome this. I also think it is good that the FPÖ shows the will to talk about ÖH in general, even though I have a little different access to it. I think it is unnecessary, since these polemics are used: These are the annoying left-wings, and that is why we do away with compulsory membership! - That's not the point. It is not a question of weakening a representation because one has bad electoral results – which of course is because the JUNOS students have very good results in the ÖH election, but that is not the point – but it is a rather philosophical question, namely, a very basic one: Should one be a compulsory member, a forced member in an association? And this has to do with all the other chambers in Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Shouldn't you!]] This is an anachronism that contradicts human rights because it is clearly stated in Article 20 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: ‘No one may be forced to belong to an association.’ But that has nothing to do with the fact that it's annoying left hand that you don't like. That is a fundamental question. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: None of us said that!]] – Yes, but the discussion would be much easier if you had an objective access to it, I would also do much easier to see you on my side. Otherwise, I really feel a little unwell with that. And that's why we also propose an opt-out model. It is about the ÖH continuing to have the opportunity to prove itself and to show that the services are good. I think it is very good that Sigrid Maurer also points out that the ÖH is very likely to offer services and not just things to do with the general political mandate. I like it very much when the ÖH focuses on service. Our opinion is that, in general, representations of interest focus mainly on service if they also have to strive for their members. And that's exactly why voluntary membership is so important. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13873	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13928	Mrs Kucharovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13949	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The changes to the High School and High School Law, which we decide today, are necessary in order to be able to carry out the ÖH elections in 2017 really well. Some speakers have already mentioned what it is all about. For example, it is also about educational education, according to which students are studying at educational universities and universities in allies, where these students are really allowed to choose. One has now agreed: prefer two locations or election days because otherwise it does not necessarily fit for working students. But let's talk about the Austrian high school. Mr Karlsböck has just submitted the request for a reduction in the ÖH contribution. Mr Maurer has also mentioned a little how this contribution is actually composed: 70 cents – already mentioned – for accident and liability insurance, so that students are insured in various areas, which is a protection for students. A tenth of the remaining amount goes to the Federal Republic of Germany and the rest to the individual university representatives. What happens to the money? On the one hand, the Social Fund is financed. This means that if students are in need, for example, in a problematic housing situation or can no longer bear the costs of providing their own children, they are supported. There are clear guidelines for support. As a student or student, you can apply once a year and are supported accordingly. Secondly, The ÖH offers comprehensive information. Let us think of the study direction representatives who serve and accompany students very clearly! And thirdly, it is simply an independent work done there, by qualified persons, by qualified experts who are available to the students and accompanied by exams and co. In short, three questions You, Mr Karlsböck: Where exactly do you want to cut short? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – In service for students, for independence or for the social fund? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... and the honors for the demonstrators!]] I'd like your answer. We in the SPÖ are for a strong and independent ÖH, for a stronger high school representation and policy, and therefore we are quite clear against the cuts in the ÖH contribution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e13992	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14013	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to respond specifically to Mr Karlsböck's request, because it is very unusual, at least I feel so. As we have already heard, a low voter participation in the last ÖH elections should be the cause of demanding a 75 percent reduction in the ÖH contribution in the application. With the ÖH contribution of €19.20 per semester, important tasks are covered: Accident and liability insurance for students, as we have already heard, financing the Federal Office and the individual university representatives. For every democratic-thinking person, it is extremely important that students are insured or that there is the possibility of a strong and independent representation of students towards the relevant ministries. That is called democratically legitimate co-determination. The comprehensive range of services such as the Help-line and the Social Consulting support students in many situations of life and emergency situations. The proportion of the federal representation and the individual university representations is also justified. This contribution makes ÖH independent and ensures that it is a strong and independent representation of students towards the relevant ministries. The question now arises why the FPÖ wants to abolish the ÖH more or less. Why do the ÖH at least 75 percent agree with the legitimation? Is this really just because of the bad voter participation? Do you just have problems allowing young people to participate, or do you even get the wrong results in the elections? On the subject of interest groups, I would like to say: In principle, everyone would have to ask why he pays cash contributions if he is healthy. That's exactly the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14050	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14071	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Some important points have now been made about the importance of student representations and student education. I do not want to repeat this, but I would like to use my 2 minutes speaking time to address the reasons why we need to change the law now. This is based on the cooperation of the educational universities and universities. It has been pointed out briefly by a number of previous speakers, and we know it: The educational education is facing a crucial breakthrough, and we all know that we can discuss school, education, equipment and talk about how we want, the decisive players are the teachers on the ground. I would like to expressly once again because it is always going under the importance of the measures we have decided in the National Council, which the former Minister of Science and current colleague Karlheinz Däderle, together with former Minister of Education Claudia Schmied, has launched for this new educational training. You said first, if that's not all at the PH or at the university, then that's impossible. However, one has known the strengths of the educational universities and also the weaknesses and vice versa also those in the teaching of the universities. What is apparent so far is that because universities are actually willing to include more practice, more education, so to speak, in their training catalogue, it is also guaranteed that more scientific knowledge will be taken into account in training at the PH. I think that exactly this combination is the decisive thing. Therefore, I am pleased that through this formation of the allies, through the clusters of cooperation of that path, we can be expected to have a really modern, new and best educational education. This will also be the decisive step for the future. We know that the educational tanker is moving slowly, but this is a decisive step to have the best training opportunities and the best educators for our children for the coming generations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14102	Mr Mahrer spoke next. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14125	Madam President. High house! Some Members have pointed out quite clearly why a change in the legal situation is necessary in order to be able to carry out the 2017 high school elections in a reasonable way. However, I would like to address the other points that have been raised because of the requests for debate or perhaps are still being debated afterwards. It was Mrs Gamon who admitted that it was, of course, a matter of basic philosophy and approach, and that we could discuss it fairly and for a long time and consider advantages and disadvantages, whether we are for or against legal interests. However, if you have the necessary experience in the field – and there are a large number of x-thousands of young people who have been involved during their studies, the majority of whom have volunteered, in the context of the interest representation of the Austrian high school and high school in the past 71 years – you know that this is an institution that is not really to be thought away from the university, which has received many more opportunities through the University Organization Act 1975 as part of the participation, and that the modernisation and opening of universities from the mid-seventies would not have been possible without the student and also the participation of the middle-level building – that must be said – in this form. That was very welcome. I have, I can say from my own personal experience – I do not make a hazel out of it, I have been chairman of the University of Economics for two years – always excellent in working with the professorship and the assistant and assistant representatives, and on many issues there has been a great deal in the co-determination for improving the study conditions. If one were to go here and limit this small contribution – and it is a very small contribution that we are talking about here – then of course one would dramatically limit the ability of the representative to act, regardless of whether this is legal or not, and that would certainly not be in the sense of Austrian students. I can now also report on the last two years from a very different role. As I said, we have an executive there, which is, as it were, of political origin other than my own, and we are very, very good at working with her at the objective level. There are excellent conversations, one meets at eye level. The representatives of the high school and high school are sitting in the university conference, it is done very well, the dialogue is actually taking place at a very high level in the sense of democracy. The fact that – and this is true – not all gold is what shines, and a number of projects have also been carried out within the framework of high school, which are quite questionable, were already available at my time, but that's how it's gonna last, it's not always all 100% perfect. In my opinion, it is important to point out the bodies in high school that you really have to consider whether what is happening there really has to do with the actual mission. There is always a certain scope for interpretation. It is basically to be said that a broad commitment to a student representation of interests, which, together with politics and other local representatives, is really committed to improving the situation of students. This is a very sensible story in a rule of law, in a democracy of liberal influence, as in Austria, and we should continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14167	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14189	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The government template before the debate takes into account, in particular, the new educational training, which not only changes the content of training, but above all also student reality. In concrete terms, the strengths of two training centres are bundled, namely the pedagogical didactic competence of the Educational University on the one hand and the scientific and technical competence of the universities on the other. This means that the students complete their training at two training sites. They also organise the entire course of training together, and curriculum is created together. Of course, it is also necessary to ensure that democratic representation does not result in democratic deficits, and this government template is used to ensure that co-determination with both institutions can take place. If I speak of democracy, democracy deficit, I would also like to point out those massive attacks that have been made there in Austria. Massive democratic deficits and a weakening of the representation of interests would be threatened if one were to comply with the wishes of the FPÖ or, in part, with the NEOS after the student's representation of interest, namely that the membership contributions would be reduced at risk of existence and could therefore no longer take place the important service. In general, such attacks on interest representatives, whether by students or employees or consumers, are really hard to reject.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14222	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14243	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Elections, especially the correct holding of elections, have been one of the key internal policy issues in recent months. The government template, which is now under negotiation, is also particularly concerned with the correct holding of elections, namely the ÖH elections. Unfortunately, it is true that in the ÖH elections the electoral participation is very low. Nevertheless, it is our duty to ensure that these elections are carried out correctly. In order to ensure this, we have drawn the right conclusions not only from the extensive evaluation and experience reports carried out after the successful implementation of the last federal election, but also from the letter election during the Federal Presidential election. For example, the rules on the composition of electoral commissions are adapted, the letter electoral process is simplified, and a preferred electoral day is allowed for educational institutions with vocational studies. With regard to the choice of letters, it is also provided that, in order to simplify the production process, the handling by the voters and the counting process of the electoral cards, the currently mandatory tabs may not be included in the electoral cards. This means that it is the responsibility of the high-school and high-school students. School election order 2014 to regulate the design of voting cards with or without tabs according to the respective state of production technology. This government template thus manages to establish legal clarity and legal clearance in the run-up to the 2017 ÖH elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14286	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the rapporteur a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft federal law, which amends the High School and Higher School Law 2014 and the Fachhochschule Studiengesetz, together with the title and entrance in 1281 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a positive sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gamon, fellow Members, on the abolition of the ÖH duty. I call on the ladies and gentlemen to give this motion for a resolution a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 1282 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of taking note of this sign. – This has been adopted by a majority, taken note of. [[17:36:14]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the application 1828/A(E) by Philip Kucher, Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, BSc, colleagues on the evaluation of broadband development under the 2020 broadband strategy (1286, B.B.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on Amendment No 548/A(E) by Mr Ruperta Lichtenecker, Members of Parliament on: Strengthen location – secure broadband development (1287 d.a.) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on Amendment No 549/A(E) by Dr Ruperta Lichtenecker, colleagues on ensuring broadband development (1288, e.g.) 14. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on Amendment No 1770/A(E) by Mr Christian Hafenecker, MA, colleagues on the high-performance Internet for Hasendorf (1289 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14417	We shall now proceed to items 11 to 14 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Hafenecker, has been mentioned. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14444	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I refer to the motion for a resolution already mentioned by Mr Hafenecker, colleagues and colleagues on the high-performance Internet for Hasendorf. This issue has already been discussed in plenary, before the summer; unfortunately, for health reasons, I have not been able to speak to it myself. But I have followed the debate on this very well on television, and I must honestly say that it was very unworthy of what I saw there: In the course of this debate, Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It has, quite honestly, hurt me very much to see how the House is dealing with serious requests. I then, of course, have told the parish citizens there so that they can also imagine how seriously their concerns are being addressed here, and you can of course imagine what answers I have received. For these reasons, I am actually very happy today to be able to comment again on this request by myself and my colleagues and perhaps also to explain why I have tabled this request. Hasendorf is one of many examples in Austria... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] – Mr Brosz, if you call in now, you need to know: If there is no Internet in Hasendorf, you can also find the app from Mr. Don't call Van der Bellen because they're not received. Maybe you should think about it, that's 160 votes anyway. Why did we take Hasendorf as an example? – Because Hasendorf is an example for many communities in Austria, which are completely neglected in broadband development, for purely economic reasons, because they say: Well, there are so few people, there doesn't need to be anything. Hasendorf – colleague Höfinger from Tulln will know – is located in the central area, not far from his place of residence, and is actually not difficult to discover to topographically. That is, you simply don't want it for economic reasons; by the way, a catastral municipality of Sitenberg-Reidling. [[Abg. Hanger: Who didn't want?]] – Telekom didn’t want to expand there, and all the other mobile operators didn’t want to do that either. This has just been done, as in many other communities. There is no adequate internet. Citizens there are second-class citizens, apparently because they are rural populations. The ÖVP, with its strong head of state Pröll, could have managed a lot of things there, but until now it has not happened. When I say that the citizens of the country seem to be second-class citizens, I would like to remind you that exactly these citizens pay as many taxes as the subway drivers in Vienna, so they also have a right to a certain basic infrastructure; of the public transport you have already ruined from the ÖVP in Lower Austria, I do not want to talk at all, but just over the Internet. [[Abg. Hanger: You have to do a project!]] [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] We have said it several times: In Romania the supply of broadband Internet is much better than currently in Austria. I think it is unworthy if we need to discuss whether a locality is being connected to the broadband network there or there, but we really should be careful not to fall behind towards Eastern Europe, where all this is being made new with EU funds; this is also my appeal to you. [[Abg. Hanger: I will explain it to you then!]] Broadband means jobs, education and progress that you should know, and especially for communities like Hasendorf, Sitenberg-Reidling et cetera – communities in the forest district – it becomes increasingly important to reduce commuting, get people away from the street and give them the opportunity to follow their job from home. This is definitely not the case there, and that is – once again – one of the reasons why we have addressed this example. [[Abg. Brosz: But you did not write that in your application! Write it in!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] I would therefore like to appeal to you – thank God it has worked today – not to laugh at Hasendorf, but to show a parliamentary will to expand the broadband infrastructure in the relevant towns and to provide people with adequate internet access, to act simply and not to take things lightly. Finally, I would like to give you something to think about: The citizens of the country also pay taxes, and in Austria it is now the case that you are paying taxes until 21. August, this is the so-called Tax Freedom Day, works to pay the taxes, and only then earns money that remains private to you. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The people, until the 21st century. August must work to pay the taxes for SPÖ, have also earned an appropriate internet connection.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14545	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14566	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! The expansion of broadband infrastructure has been a topic that has accompanied us for some time now, and that is right, because when we look at the current change in many of our areas of life, it is evident that it is largely based on the Internet. Our economy changes, our living together changes, knowledge is omnipresent due to the Internet, but not only that, we are not just consumers, we are also producers, and many other new possibilities arise through big data, smart data, Internet of things and much more. The Internet is certainly not a new country, it has been over 26 years since it was laid at the University of Vienna the foundation stone for the Internet in Austria; however, we are only at the beginning of a change, and I do not know that this is already challenging and will continue to exist in the future. Nevertheless, in my opinion, digitalisation is still a great opportunity to use it. The basis for taking advantage of or taking advantage of this opportunity is an appropriate broadband infrastructure, not only in urban areas, but especially in rural regions. I also say that I find the FPÖ's request I find it rather symptomatic that many small places – and there can certainly be called my home town Leodager – and that communities still do not have a high-performance internet connection. With the broadband strategy 2020, the Federal Government has also set itself the goal of promoting a high-performance network throughout the world by 2020. But I also see that we are losing a lot of time, that we are only moving forward sluggishly, that, unlike many other countries, we are not moving fast enough. Mr Kucher's request provides for a review of the existing system of support. It is now the right time for the first calls, the first calls of all areas – access, backhaul, empty piping, but also the AT:net funding – to be completed and there are already many feedbacks about this funding system – whether from the federal states, which also say that there are very different conditions from the federal state to the federal state; whether it be from the municipalities in terms of planning safety, because many road construction projects, canal construction projects are aimed at the future in the longer term and are not now carried out; whether by industry representatives who, of course, also consider that the competition-neutral and also technology-neutral. I am of the opinion that we need to think about how we can speed up development – especially in areas of general interest, in public areas such as schools, hospitals, FHs, universities and where there is an urgent need, for example because of the entrepreneurship structure, because there are commercial parks et cetera – and that we also need to get into circulation faster in the private sector by means of an intelligent technology mix, for example through mobile broadband internet. LTE is widely available, but it also needs the appropriate connection to be able to use the full potential. But it also needs to look at the future possibilities, for example 5G, the next generation of the mobile Internet. I think we can do a lot of things there. In my opinion, the public hand can also make an even greater contribution. We have already implemented a change in the Committee with the TKG-Novelle in order to better coordinate infrastructure projects, but we have also decided to establish a committee in order to improve coordination with the telecoms industry in buildings, for reasons which are in public hands, in order to facilitate access, but also reduce costs. The evaluation is an essential step in a debate that we still have to debate so that Austria can take the opportunity of digitisation. I hope for broad approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14621	As next speaker, Mrs Dr. Lightenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14642	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, there are four requests for discussion on broadband development and four for the vote here in plenary. In general, it should be noted that broadband is, of course, part of the modern infrastructure. Broadband is an infrastructure that is central to a modern knowledge and economic location, and the ICT industry, the information and communication technology industry, depends on it, but not on it. only these but, of course, all the other sectors, as well as consumers. This must be one of our main priorities in terms of infrastructure investment, and this, of course, is one of the future investments. When we look at the indicators, it turns out that in Austria we are not at the forefront, but that we are in need of recovery, and that is exactly what should be driven forward in this form. The fact is that there is a gap, a gap between the development in urban areas, in the agglomerations and in rural regions. This is precisely what needs to be taken into account, because the regions and rural areas need this infrastructure. [[As a result, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Economic ……]] We have the issue of emigration, small and medium-sized enterprises and even individual companies are becoming increasingly difficult, and precisely these need this on-site infrastructure, which is why I am convinced that we must focus on it. On specific requests, I would like to say in advance that it was not until June, i.e. a few months ago – I quote – that it was from the WIFO: “Broadband expansion was at last a driving force in rural areas, which is blocking investment. In general, Austria is falling back on innovation.” – In so far as we naturally support your request for evaluation, colleague Kucher, colleague Himmelbauer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] I would also like to say in this regard that evaluation is actually a constant part of the broadband strategy. If it is now necessary to make a request, we will support this, especially if it is actually moving forward with the development of broadband infrastructure at a proper pace and the results will also help to secure the achievement of the target by 2020. I come to the two requests made by me, Mr Moser, friends and friends: The application for broadband expansion is from 2014; it now sees the light of the plenary session – well so. You see that this is a central concern for us for years, and we will continue to do so with Verve, and we are pleased that this will be voted on today. The second request concerns finance. This proposal clearly states that we demand that there be additional resources, namely, € 1 billion. We fear that the broadband strategy, as it is now present, will be delayed; for example, € 220 million will be foreseen for 2021. We wonder if this is the means that should actually be invested by 2020. Is there a delay, or what is that? In this respect, however, the two gentlemen can certainly bring light into the dark on the government bank. I would like to refer to Mr Hafenecker's request on Hasendorf: We take Hasendorf as seriously as all other 2 099 communities in this Republic. I think that when we talk about broadband development, this applies to all regions and to every municipality in the Republic, and of course this is taken seriously in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14712	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14736	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) By 2020, we want to achieve the goal of comprehensive broadband provision in Austria, whether you live in the city or in the country. In principle, I think it is positive – and this is not the case every day – that there is a close-up of all the political groups here in the House, namely to think together about how broadband development in Austria is implemented as effectively and efficiently as possible, how we can get even better where there is potential for improvement. I think it makes sense to evaluate the whole after the first phase. Some things have already happened and have also been decided here in the House: the broadband strategy with the corresponding Master Plan, we have implemented the Cost Reduction Directive, and very important is the infrastructure database so that, for example, the use of existing infrastructure can be remembered. Of course, it makes more sense that, if, for example, a road is dug up to move a canal tube, which is also used for empty pipe. These are things that we have already decided, and now it is about evaluating the funding programmes. There were a lot of proposals in the Committee – only very briefly. Mr Hafenecker, I think it is important that you point to Hasendorf. In addition to you, Mr Angerer, who – also very important – pointed to Mühldorf. Mr Köchl from Carinthia pointed to Krumpendorf, which I was pleased to see. It was pointed out in a place in Lower Austria, Amaliendorf-Aalfang – I hope I speak it correctly –; all of this, as I believe, is very important. [[Abg. Lightenecker:... in Upper Austria also had!]] – Yes, many places have been mentioned, and the message has arrived: It is about justice, whether you live in the city or in the countryside, from Lake Neusiedler to Lake Constance; we simply have to ensure that this right of opportunity is also made. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Lightenecker.]] It makes little sense, however, for each of the 2 100 communities in Austria to apply. Let's collect all the suggestions! As I know Minister Leichtfried, he is willing to include all the proposals where we can get better and faster. Let us take this up, so this evaluation is so important, and I can ask you all to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14776	The next speaker is Mrs Von Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14798	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! We will, of course, also vote in favour of this request. It is indisputable that broadband development must proceed as quickly as possible and above all be implemented, because only in this way can we make the necessary adjustments to digitisation. Digitalisation is very important, especially when it comes to the field of business, art, education, and above all, it is very important – I would like to hit Lichtenecker in the same notch as my colleague – when it comes to rural areas. It is very important to move forward as quickly as possible with broadband development. [[Congratulations to Mr Lugar, Mr Hafenecker, Mr Lichtenecker, Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Doppler.]] We know there are strong deportations there, and I think that is a very important way to counter it. What can we do if the Internet connection is too weak? We are spoiled in urban space, everything goes fast; but it is not possible to stay up-to-date if you are disabled because you can communicate with the outside world via the Internet, via broadband too little. It is a very important point that we support rural areas in the sense that we are moving forward as quickly as possible in order to reduce the amount of migration that has been given, so of course we agree with that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14840	The next speaker was Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14861	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Yes, the implementation of broadband promotion may be on the right track, but there is still a little bit of potential for improvement, and that certainly concerns the speed at which this is progressing. The topic is a permanent burner, and I can now get out of an APA message from 14. In May 2007, Deutsche Telekom Austria is very pleased about broadband development in the country, while also warning about the digital gap that can arise between the city and the country as well as different income, age and work groups. Telekom Austria, an agency and the municipality of Engerwitzdorf have jointly submitted the project Buntes Fernsehen Engerwitzdorf to the Commission’s Best European Broadcast Project for 2007 Award – and this was even relatively successful. At that time, the Commission was committed to a very massive broadband development in all rural areas of Europe. But we are still in the back, the development is very sluggish. On the one hand, wireless technologies in remote areas may be better because they are faster to implement, more uncomplicated solutions, and, on the other hand, as in many other areas, we are struggling with a division of competence, as far as competence is concerned, because the Ministry of Life is partly responsible. With regard to the application for faster Internet in Hasendorf: In principle, I am concerned about how serious it is that we are here in the National Council and want to deal with federal policy issues, otherwise I could just as well make a request for every single community in which the connection is not yet working properly. That's my personal heart too. I would like to have faster Internet for the Gamperdonal in Vorarlberg, because there I am on vacation every year, and the slow Internet is always annoying. However, this should not be a reason for submitting a request for the Gamperdonatal for faster Internet access – but this is perhaps a fundamental question of attitude. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14899	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14920	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There are in Austria, as far as I could experience this, five villages or parts with the name Hasendorf: On the one hand, this is the Hasendorf mentioned in the application, then there are three Hasendorf in the Styria – Hasendorf near Köflach, Hasendorf an der Mur und Hasendorf near Wagna – and then there is a Hasendorf in the Güssing district. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] [[Call the FPÖ:Do they have all the Internet?]] – Hasendorf at the Mur is the only one who has a Wikipedia entry, where you may already have the Internet; with the others I can't say this with the last certainty. [[Abg. Hafenecker: They can't write it in because they don't have an internet!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This, of course, also shows a lot of the problem: There are currently several towns in Austria that are not sufficiently fast to access the Internet, and the answer to this situation was to set up the broadband billions, precisely with the aim of eliminating this situation. From the point of view of the approach, there were two ways: The first way would have been to say that the Republic is taking this money into its hands and building broadband where it is necessary. However, this amount would not have been sufficient in the case of Weitem. One has then decided to say: We support and promote where the likelihood is not too high that immediately private companies are going to make broadband available on market conditions. That was the idea of broadband billions. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This system will be able to provide almost comprehensive services by 2020. We have already achieved a lot with this method, and it is the method that can probably work best, taking into account the necessary financial resources. The broadband development master plan provides for the use of existing infrastructure, the establishment of its own infrastructure and construction database, and the establishment of a broadband office coordinating it. – All of this has already been done, and the programs are running. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] There was a first call in the empty tube with a volume of € 40 million. The second call is now completed, and the evaluation will take place in the next few days. In the area of access there is a call with a volume of €96 million, with these €96 million fully exhausted. In the area of backhaul there is also a call with a volume of 96 million €, of which 68 million are spent. In the area of BBA 2020 or AT:net there was € 4.7 million, and at the second call there is now a volume of € 4.7 million. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures have already succeeded in achieving significant improvements in 600 municipalities in Austria. – 600 municipalities, ladies and gentlemen, is not little, that is something that can already be seen! It is not only about Hasendorf, but also about other communities. To give some examples, so that this becomes a little more concrete: We reach 100 percent coverage in Feistritz at the Gail, 100 percent coverage in Kindberg, 99.5% coverage in Rohrau, 99.1 percent in Weissenbach, 99.1 percent in the Triesting, 98.3 percent in Waidmannsfeld, and so on. – So a lot has already been achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear, of course, that we are not ready now. Mrs Lichtenecker, this shift to 2021 is budgetaryly justified, so that has nothing to do with actual implementation. However, I think, ladies and gentlemen, we have been successful so far, and we have even been successful in the sense of the applicant as regards Hasendorf, because I can tell you that the village of Hasendorf, the Katastral municipality of Sitenberg-Reidling in the district of Tulln, is a funding area and has now been included in the funding programme Access. That means it's already in Hasendorf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e14984	Now comes Mr. Ing. Heard to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15005	Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In fact, this matter is a subject in which the political groups agree that we cannot invest enough in the quality of the site. Austria is well known to suffer – Mr. Finanzminister Schelling has given his budget speech today – under a very tense financial situation. The situation is anything but rosy, we fall back in many rankings, also internationally, so it is important to further develop the location qualitatively. Just as road infrastructure is so important, how important health care and social infrastructure are, of course, communications infrastructure is of immense importance for a location in order to get away from other sites, because one is trying to attract the economy as well. [[Abg. Hanger: That's what we've heard a hundred times!]] – We have heard that a hundred times, but you can say that one hundred times. [[Abg. Hanger: We have to implement it!]] – We need to implement it, you're absolutely right! That is why there are these broadband billions, this broadband project, which was so properly implemented in 2012 in particular, with the aim of achieving a suitable surface coverage in 2020. We all agree on this. We believe that it is not possible to proceed quickly enough, and that is why, I said in the Committee, we are also very skeptical about the so-called evaluation, because current projects have to be evaluated continuously anyway. I come from information technology, and I did not need evaluation projects from information technology projects, but IT projects have continuously evaluated themselves in the sense. That is, if you have noticed, there is a need for change somewhere, then you have announced these changes and implemented the whole thing. – That means: Please do not evaluate, but implement accordingly! Mr. Leichtfried has said, certainly rightly, that there have already been a lot of things in this respect, but I would already like to give him the way that there are still very big problems with this communication infrastructure. I would like to give an example: Only 13.2 percent of federal schools and 15.7 percent of compulsory schools have a connection with more than 100 megabits per second, most of them in Vienna. That means we really have increased needs. In Carinthia, it is 56.9 percent less – now we all have to hold fast! – having 10 megabits per second – so you can’t even talk about broadband. So there is still a lot of need, there is still a lot to be done, and we are asking the Federal Government not to evaluate, but – you say it right anyway – to act and to implement it, then we get to the goal faster.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15067	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15092	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In 1993, Bill Gates thought that the Internet was a hype that went by again, but he quickly noticed that it was not, and then said a short time later: “The Internet is like a wave: Either you learn to swim on it, or you go down.” – Austria has great potential to swim well, but it also needs to catch up; my previous speakers have already responded. In the field of digitalization there is a constant need for optimization. We must not be satisfied with the fact that we are in the middle of the international comparison or that we are playing with it, but we must see that we are opening up to the top riders such as South Korea, Singapore or Israel. In part, the broadband strategy, as it is now implemented by the federal government and also by the federal states, is a bit technically obsolete, because it does not make sense to connect every house to the fibre-optic network if, through rapid technological progress, it is also possible to reduce the last meter by mobile means, which saves costs and accelerates expansion. Everyone is currently talking about the 4G/LTE network, but we need to focus on the fact that the latest 5G technology is to be implemented in Austria as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the free flow of data has become the raw material of work and business, and this, of course, is also about equal opportunities. For us too, it is clear from the ÖVP that access to high-speed Internet must be as self-evident as access to water and electricity, as according to the World Bank, a 10 percent increase in broadband penetration will increase GDP by 1.2 percent. I am very glad that all the previous speakers have actually come to know that development in the rural regions is very important for maintaining competitiveness in the countryside. I am of course of the same opinion and would like to take a brief look at an aspect which my previous speakers have not yet mentioned: The Internet revolution also leads to a mobility revolution. Digitalisation contributes significantly to the more efficient, flexible and overall performance of transport systems. Intelligent mobility ensures competitiveness and also locations, especially in the country. I think that this is particularly important in terms of security and efficient use of resources. Traffics that are controlled that are liquid are, of course, far less susceptible to accidents, and this also saves energy and resources. It is therefore very important for us in the rural area to maintain the attractiveness of broadband development. One last sentence: It is discussed and discussed over and over again about the Smart City. I would suggest that we, like our German colleagues, talk more closely about initiatives such as Smart Country, which, in my conviction, could lead to a renaissance of the regions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15140	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15161	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a very great consensus here in the house that it is important to improve the telecom infrastructure in Austria, and all are fully behind this broadband billion. I am a great defender of the fact that important public property infrastructure is in the hands of the state. We have this issue on the rail network, on the roads, on the water lines, on the wastewater systems, on the power lines, on the hydroelectric power stations and so on. That infrastructure, which we need as citizens in daily life, should therefore be good in public ownership or majority ownership. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When we look at the telecom infrastructure now, we see that there are three suppliers in Austria in the core: Telekom Austria, which is mostly in Mexican hands, namely in the hands of the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, T-Mobile, which is in German hands, and Hutchison with three, which is in Chinese hands. This is the distribution of property at Telekom Austria. [[a table in front of the speaker’s desk, showing a circle of three segments labeled ‘América Móvil’, ‘ÖBIB’ and ‘Distribution’, the first of which is slightly more than half]] Now we put 1 billion € Austrian tax money into broadband expansion. What are we doing with it? – We help the three foreign companies – investors – to do good business, so we actually make them richer with Austrian money. [[Abg. Hafenecker: This is xenophobic!]] – No, I am not at all hostile to foreigners, but what I would like to do is to get the telecom infrastructure back in Austrian hands. It was a mistake for the Federal Government to allow the telecom infrastructure to go into foreign majority ownership. [[another panel pointing to the speaker's seat, on which is a circular Mexican flag from which a segment is produced in the colours of the Austrian flag, as well as a circular German and a circular Chinese flag]] What we do Greens would like to have the following model: We give the foreign telecom companies Carlos Slim – who is supposed to do his business in Central and Eastern Europe as he wants – but for this we increase the Austrian share in Telekom Austria and try to buy the rest so that we can again be masters of the telecom infrastructure in Austria, because almost everything runs over the Telekom Austria network. In the end, we see Austria as having the telecom infrastructure, just as ÖBB Infra owns the rail network. [[another panel on the speaker's seat, on which are depicted a circular Mexican flag, a circular German flag and a circular Chinese flag, which are encased in a brackets marked with a circular Austrian flag]] But if you go by train on the rail network or if you use the telecom infrastructure, you should leave it to the competition; then the match and the offer will be made. I think it is extremely necessary, Mr Minister – and I would also like to have an answer from you, as you say – that everything is being tried to recover the telecom infrastructure in Austrian hands, because it is becoming increasingly important, and it is extremely important, for example, in the event of disaster, who has the hand on it and who can control it. I believe that this is one of the most important tasks of the future, because simply putting in a broadband billion and making those who are already richer are not our green concept.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15224	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smart. [[Call the FPÖ: It's gone, for a long time! He's been home a long time ago! He's home already!]] [[Abg. Smart enters the meeting room.]] - Okay, right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your patience! If you listen to the criticism of the opposition, you can't understand in part why you don't just say: 1 billion € federal money for fast internet is great! [[Abg. Hafenecker: You weren't inside at all!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: He didn't listen to that!]] The program is right, the goal is right: by 2020 100 megabits per second as far as possible in the area. We've already discussed all of this. It is about federal money – I emphasize this because this is sometimes quickly made into national money, especially in the country of Lower Austria. The goal is right. The programs are correct. It's clear that we're doing this with partners, too, that's right to get the optimal out as fast and as far as possible as possible with the 50 percent funding. The Minister for Infrastructure and Innovation is on the right track in this context. In my opinion, the fact that a programme, which has been set up for several years, is also briefly evaluated and considered how to improve it in cooperation with the mayors is self-evident. Youth will benefit from this, private households in the area, rural areas will benefit, and the industrial location itself will also benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Lichtenecker has quoted the Wifo, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Wifo has said that € 1 billion for fast Internet work 80 000 jobs in Austria, which we urgently need in the context of the development of the labour market. The project is right. We want fast internet in the area, throughout the Republic. The Minister is on the right track. Go on, please! - Thank you and all the good.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15323	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15344	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr A. D. and current Member and colleague, I think you have not followed the discussion at all, but you have made a wonderful contribution to it. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Agenda items 11 to 14 are all about broadband, the faster Internet. This is particularly important for rural areas, for rural areas, as we have already heard. The expansion of broadband is a very important factor for economic sites in this rural area, because these regions too need to be provided with a fast Internet so that more people and companies do not migrate. Wide-ranging broadband development by 2020 is an essential requirement for the whole of Austria, for all federal states and, above all, for all municipalities. Of course there are different interests, we have already heard that. The progress made so far in implementing the Master Plan by 2020 is on the right track. We have always heard this, and I believe it is also right, although there are difficulties in what the financial resources are all about. Germany is concerned, but the 2020 target should be achieved. Implementation would be better than evaluating! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15386	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15408	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a Member of Parliament, they have their favourite themes. For me personally, the issue of broadband is a priority, and therefore it is really important for me to make some clarifications; I have now listened very carefully to the debate. First clarification: The Federal Government does not build broadband networks. Broadband networks can only build one promoter, and one can submit projects to the Federal Government. That's a huge difference. The programmes developed by the Federal Government are not so bad at all, you really have to say. I have now been approved in my home community alone, and there are a lot of projects in the Eisenstraße region in the Mostviertel – you simply have to submit the projects! In fact, it is of course the case that implementation takes a relatively long time. I would also prefer everything to go much faster, but of course it will take time to evaluate the applications for funding until everything is planned until the official permits are available. I would also like this to go faster, but the programmes themselves are correct. Second finding: We already have a comprehensive broadband supply in Austria – once you have a fixed telephone once you have a mobile phone, you have broadband – the problem is only, we do not bring the bandwidth we already need urgently – we know, big data, video streaming – so we need to build the networks. [[Abg. Lightenecker: I wanted to say how much bit do we spend?- Oh, my God!]] But I would always be very careful in terms of that. Third observation – and I say this also as a Member of Parliament from a rural constituency –: The support programme is intended exclusively for rural areas. There is a country map on which it is quite clear where the market is expanding – in the urban areas, in the cities, by the way also in the cities in the rural areas – and there the public hand does not need to operate. However, if you are not in this room, but in a room where no provider is expanding, you are eligible. We have already discussed the concrete example of Hasendorf: Hasendorf is worthy of support. I would very much recommend that you take a look at the funding map – that would be the very first – to find a promoter and to see that there is a project, then we will continue on this topic – and not with such general findings. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Two thoughts are still very important to me: I personally think the discussion about what mobile networks can do in the future – keyword LTE/5G – is also very exciting. At the expert level, the discussion is always held: If we need Fiber To The Home, do we need the fiber optic connection to the single house, or does this also go over the mobile networks? By the way, there is also a very intense expert discussion. A second thought is also very important to me: We are always discussing the question of how the technical availability of fiberglass looks like broadband. However, we must also ask the question: What's it cost? – If you have a range of 100 Mbit/s that costs a company or a private household 1 200 € per month – these are examples from practice! – then that's not opportunistic either. The only answer is: We need competition. The more projects there are, the better, the more providers on the market, the better; then competition arises, and then the Internet will be manageable for all Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15450	The next item is the report by Mr Mahrer, State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15472	Mr President. High house! I would like to add a few facts to the debate and point out that this is perhaps a much more serious matter than many of us think. I refer to the naked figures, and these are quite recent figures; the Federal Minister and I have only personally talked about developments this week. Let us therefore look at the figures of the European Commission in international comparison! How large is the share of fibre-optic connections in all broadband connections? – The regions with which we have to measure ourselves are areas of innovation, such as South Korea or Japan. Japan has a share of 73 percent, South Korea 71 percent and Austria 1.6% – not 16 percent, not over 50 percent, but 1.6%! There are other countries in Europe which already have a much larger share; Latvia, for example, has 60 percent. You know what I mean by that? – This is a question of fairness of opportunity, of participation, of the competitiveness of the site in the future, of connecting small and medium-sized enterprises, of large industrial enterprises, if we want to participate in digitisation. I said this two years ago: At the time, I thought it was good to see 2020 as a goal, but in the dynamics I thought it was too unambitional. I believe that the attempt to achieve a comprehensive supply of 100 megabits per second throughout Austria by 2020 is a good programme – as it is now planned – and we need it. However, it is also important to evaluate and see if you can improve something; you should always be open to that, so the motion for a resolution should be welcomed. However, I believe that the objectives of the Republic of Austria for the competitiveness of the site and for issues of equal opportunities and participation are far from ambitious. We will have to consider together how we can successfully bake this together. I mention a single example: The successor technology for 4G is the mobile phone standard 5G. Let's look at some of the facts that this means: a hundred times higher data throughput, therefore a thousand times capacity and just a thousandths – I repeat: a thousandths! – energy consumption. We see what huge technological leap this is doing, and either we are there, or we can actually lubricate into the hair of all the great considerations in the field of start-ups, spin-offs or applications in the field of self-driving cars – if we do not create the digital infrastructure for that. That is why I would like to make a passionate plea to you to take care of it together in the next few months. The Federal Minister and I have agreed to look at ourselves with real taboos and technological neutrality, what we are doing here from the public point of view in cooperation. bet with all suppliers on the market can make it possible to create reasonable framework conditions so that we can further develop there. That is why I really ask everyone to take this issue seriously, and we therefore welcome the evaluation. We find this very good, because maybe improvement potentials are found. But that is not the final conclusion of wisdom, that can only be a first step. I'm afraid that's just a small step, but I hope we'll take much bigger steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15517	Mr Antoni is speaking as the last speaker in this debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15538	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! As the last speaker on this subject, I should like to conclude by saying: I think that this proposal to evaluate the broadband strategy can only be accepted because it is really important and necessary to examine the processes, to draw up and, of course, to optimize them. I think it would not be done with a simple report from the Committee, as Mr Höbart has already mentioned in the Committee's negotiations; far too important is the progressive digitisation and the importance of the 2020 broadband strategy, and this has already been mentioned several times today, for the rural regions. This is really a matter of preserving existence, ensuring quality of life, especially countering migration and making infrastructure weak regions attractive for economic policy in the future. This and this strategy will ensure jobs. Above all, the possibilities of local authorities in connection with the establishment of new and existing enterprises are expanded, and the general quality of life of citizens is enhanced by the significant communication possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, every region of Austria, every rural region, every municipality is of course equally important to us, but in this case, I would like to end up with an example from my home region, which shows how important this strategy is, but which also shows that the strategy already works. In my home district of Gmünd in the Waldviertel there is the municipality Amaliendorf-Aalfang, a thousand-sealen community, and there the company RZA Rechenzentrum Amaliendorf offers software packages and service packages especially in the area of wage accounting, billing and accounting for several thousand customers in Austria. That's really hot. Until a few days or weeks ago, the management of the company was faced with a difficult decision: Due to the lack of rapid Internet connection, the company was almost ready to move its headquarters from the forest district, from the rural region to the central area. Thanks to the broadband strategy, thanks to the rapid connection to the fibre optics network, this issue is now off the table. 25 jobs in the region north of the forest are secured, and 25 jobs – you can believe me – mean a lot in this region. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and by Mr Steinbichler and Mr Willi.]] That is why we are very happy to support this request. We need the broadband strategy. We need a comprehensive link with 100 Mbit/s especially in these regions, where suppliers will be able to make such an investment over the next three years. The Commission has not provided any information on this matter. This is where the evaluation report is based, and we are very happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15590	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall vote on Agenda item 11 on the resolution on the evaluation of broadband development in the framework of the 2020 broadband strategy, annexed to the Committee's report 1286 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 172.) We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of its report 1287 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of its report 1288 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of its report 1289 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[18:28:10]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the proposal from Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues on Digital Nation – Austria 2.0 (1290 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15694	We're coming to 15. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Lichtenecker is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15721	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There is hardly a day when you don't have a newspaper, a magazine or a magazine where the words digitalization, digital transformation or Industry 4.0 occur. This is not new, on the contrary, it has accompanied us for many, many years. We are in the middle of digital change. The difference to the previous is that the pace is increasing enormously. This increase in the pace and the changes result in new challenges. Now it is up to us to accept these challenges and to take them out of the It is also a matter of making opportunities for them to face up to their challenges. We are now exactly in the situation that we are making these challenges a chance, for Austria, but also for the Europe site – and this is exactly what it is all about now. Yes, this digitization brings changes in the working world, in the worlds of life and, of course, expressly also in the economy. The terms Big Data, robot automation, the Internet of Things, Industry 4.0, smart applications from Health to Government and so on accompany us, and of course also the theme of the changed value chains. Yes, we have challenges, and they concern many things, from climate change to the ultimateity of resources to demographic developments and migration movements. It will be a matter of driving forward appropriate innovations in order to address these challenges as well. Of course, digitalization is a driver for innovation. It will not only be technical innovations, but also organisational and social innovations, and we should keep in mind this over and over again. This digital transformation presents challenges, especially in the field of education, research and development, for the labour market in general, but also, of course, in the field of digital security and legal frameworks. That is why I am deeply convinced that we need a strategy and that this must be done very consistently. I believe it is also good to shape a concept such as the Digital Strategy 2025. Let us therefore make sure that there is actually this in this form as well. But it will not only address these challenges which I mentioned earlier, but also issues such as value added and tax systems. What does that mean for identifying with work? What does that mean for the social discourse? All these things will be a big topic. For this digital strategy 2025, which we need for Austria, we first need a commitment as far as possible of all parties, but of course the Federal Government. We need a vision and a goal where we want to go, and a strategy that defines the framework, finally defines the measures and provides the resources for them. Ladies and gentlemen, we make the challenges of digital change a chance and provide a digital strategy for Austria 2025! In this sense, we can certainly support Mr Alm’s request regarding “Digital Nation – Austria 2.0” – as he has referred to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15773	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15794	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Digitalization takes place – with or without us. Digitalization is also not a process for which two years ago the lever was encased, but it is a continuous process. Automation, digitalization, mechanization take place not only for years, but for decades. I am allowed to frighten all those who think that jobs will now be lost in masses: No, it will be the opposite. All the past “revolutions” – under quotations –, Industry 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, have always led to more jobs than before at the end of the day. There will, of course, be fewer jobs in one area or another, but in many other areas new jobs, new fields of work will be created, and this fear, which some have attached, I can take with it. As my previous speaker has already said, digitalization is working on us every day. There is hardly any more passing a medium in which concepts such as digitization, industry 4.0, smart production or smart cities appear. In this sense, I also understand Mr Alm's request, which, in his request, calls for a concept of "Digital Nation – Austria 2.0", to carry out a survey and other measures, and which, as I think, seeks to give the necessary weight to this mega-theme, this fate issue – as such I also understand it. He submitted this application in July 2015. However, I can say that at the time of the introduction, parts had already been overtaken, because a few weeks before the then State Secretary Steßl and our State Secretary Harald Mahrer started the government project Digital Roadmap. There was also the survey that he called for, namely in November 2015. At the initiative of the then Federal Council President Gottfried Kneifel, there was the survey “Digital Change and Politics”. This also resulted in a Green Paper, which was sent to the Federal Government. With regard to competence in the Federal Government, which is required, I should like to point out that, with State Secretary Duzdar and our State Secretary Harald Mahrer, we have two State Secretarys who, I believe, are very committed to this issue; and of course, I can also refer to Federal Minister Leichtfried, who is firmly in use in the areas for which he is responsible. With regard to the request for committees, I believe that the FIT Committee is the right committee. We also discussed all this in detail during the discussion last week; and the Federal Government, as I mentioned earlier, has also set up a broad process with the Digital Roadmap, which, I believe, was at the height of a good discussion process in February. It will now be completed in the coming weeks, and this digital roadmap will be presented by the government in the coming weeks. So you see, digitization is in good hands with our government. A lot is happening. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Oha!]] Of course, we are open to all the proposals that we are going to hear today under this item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15831	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15852	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Yes, of course it was expected that you would tell me that the fish has already been cleaned. In that case, however, it is more like a red herring that you have prepared there. I have also followed the only written invitation to the survey and have also spoken there. The Digital Roadmap as such is also not wrong in its contents. So there is not really anything to criticize in the parts – or it would be too easy. The criticism is rather in that this digital roadmap is not complete, because what we lack is an overall view of network policy. In Austria, the flickwerk is distributed across several resorts; there is no vision. We are actually working on current or, in part, past issues, as we have already done. have previously been on the subject of broadband development. So we need a job that not only works reactively, but creatively thinks into the future. Of course, there would be an ideal network ministry, or at least a state secretariat, in which one bundles these agendas and accompanies the digitization of politics – not necessarily designed, but rather accompanied, because digitalization is actually taking place without politics. In part, however, politics can act visionably, for example Estonia, which in the fields of eID, IID quite a lot of things. You don't have to find that well, you can quite criticize it, but at least there's something going on. In such a network ministry, of course, there is also a discussion of all the areas in which we actually operate defence policy – security, intelligence services, privacy protection and so on. All of this could bring us into a state with which we could, as it were, also ask for inclusion in the Digital 5, including Estonia to make the Digital 6. In fact, there is a lot to be done in this area. There are, as Mr Lichtenecker has said, challenges that we must face. The topic of automation in the work process has also been addressed by colleagues Lettenbichler. At the same time, he wanted to scare everyone what I thought was a little cute; I don't think he's in that position. It's about topics like artificial intelligence, it's about deep learning, it's about the Internet of Things. And even at Internet of Things, it's not about this slightly messy fairy tale from the fridge that speaks to us and orders himself his milk, but that's a little more. This is a platform for digital networking that has not been available to this extent. There will be a factor 10 more connections on the network than they are now available on the Internet. Control of this data will be within Big 5 – Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google, Microsoft. That's not an ethical appreciation, it's not a dystopic view, it's not a warning, it's just the coming reality, or, as Bruce Sterling would say: ‘Politically speaking, the relationship of the reader to the Internet of Things is not democratic. It's not even capitalistic. It's a new thing. It’s digital feudalism.” That's it. Politics is overestimating in this area – inexorably, colleague Lettenbichler! The question is no longer how politics can benefit the Internet and networking, but what role democratic society plays in a networked world at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15903	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15925	Mr Alm! Thank you very much for your request “Digital Nation – Austria 2.0”! Mr President. Federal Minister! On many points I can understand the ideas of my colleague Alm, but let me pick up a little further: As a tourist speaker, I naturally focus on this industry and its interests. There are some interesting points. On the one hand: Tourism has been taking place more and more on the Internet for years. 59 percent of bookings are made on the Internet. A total of 80 percent of the guests are previously informed on the Internet. This means that an internet presence and a fast Internet connection are currently the A and O of business. Tourism takes place where there is no value added – on a mountain, in the periphery, where there may be a mountain hut next to forestry and agriculture. These companies also have a central function, they not only keep the place together, but often the whole valley, but as I said, these companies also need the Internet today, and it is essential to have the appropriate connections. If I associate these issues with your demands, I would like to point out two points: on the one hand, the broadband development already taking place and on the other hand the digital roadmap of the government. And no, Mr Alm, this is not a piece of work, but it is, on the contrary, a holistic programme. Due to an online discussion on www.digitalroadmap.gv.at, the Federal Government is creating a comprehensive and holistic programme. In addition to the participation of all departments, the federal states, the municipal and local authorities and the social partners with the public on-line consultation, several thousand comments were made by citizens. This is a holistic and forward-looking approach. The final version is currently being formulated. The aim is to present the Digital Roadmap this year and to bring about a government decision. You see: Your request is, unfortunately, obsolete, though well meant. The government has taken the necessary steps. – Maybe the next time you'll do a little better research! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15964	The next speaker is Mr Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e15985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of this request, the impression could now be given: What we need in this Republic is an inquiry, is an advisory board or is a council and possibly an additional ministry. Now I don't want to go that far, to say we have enough surveys, even though we might have had a seizure in recent times. The work, the real work – not the legal work – lies with the ministries, the decision-making work is done here in Parliament, but everything else – takes place outside, in the establishments and so on. If we now say that we want to prepare even more and better, with participation – keyword relevant stakeholders – with education, media competence, research, data protection and so on, then I must admit that I have the impression that we have not even done our basic tasks in many areas. We still have so many problems in education, we have social problems, we have problems in the areas of wages, unemployment and so on, so we should start to solve our basic tasks, really to solve and not to push ahead, and the solution should be satisfactory for our own people. We should find such a solution before entering the second and third stages, and there we should, if at all, first form an opinion. We have a Council for Research and Technology Development. This Council - we saw it at the last committee meeting - has delivered a complete work on proposals and strategies. That would be something for the government program – not to enroll, but to implement it. The proposals for implementation were sound, some of which will be implemented but no other part. I don't want to go now. Seeking sinners or debtors, I only notice: It will not be implemented. So what are we supposed to do about the next stage? Then I read from my own network ministry. All right, I'm not assuming that we're still taking in the fishing rights. But if we don't make it in the field of digitalization, from the empty pipes to the actual broadband data reception to the last village, all the way back and up in the mountains, or just to Hasendorf, no matter where, I don't think we need to talk about Industry 4.0, Work, Open Source, Security and anything else. It is always the same as we have learned it in the elementary school and in the education stages that build on it: first the work and then the ornamental line. We shouldn't be dealing with the ornamental lines. We do enough ornamental rows here in the high house, but what we lack is once the completion of the basic task. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Alm was quite right with two points. On the subject of security: Yes, we should also take care of security in connection with our infrastructure. I am not referring to the classical infrastructure of railways, roads, water and so on, but to the data infrastructure. Who owns the infrastructure? Does she belong to a Mexican? Does she belong to us? How does that really look? What about the software running on this infrastructure? What about the Data Flow? Who can control it? Who can listen to him, who can't listen to him? It's the same with the fridge: It may already be that in a few years Amazon has everything possible, I don't want to say, controlled, but at least in the hand of delivery. Perhaps I am in a privileged position because I live in the countryside, but when I go home from work, I pass my farm and buy the potatoes and the milk there. I don't need Amazon or a talking fridge or anything else. Please let us start with the basic tasks first! If we have done that, then we are so happy that we can still deal with the rest. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16047	Next speaker is Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16068	Mr President. In the previous debate, we have already talked a lot about the changes in the field of digitalization. Mr Deimek, yes, even in the previous debate, we have talked about the basic basis for which digitisation is possible at all – that is the appropriate infrastructure. But I do believe that it would be fatal not to talk about the changes that happen in this world or not to deal with them because they happen, and it is up to us whether we can be creatively involved or whether we simply accept these changes at some stage. I do believe that policy should accompany these changes. But I am also saying that we must not give in to the illusion that we can regulate it nationally alone, because it is precisely the network, the data communication and much more that do not end at national borders. We must not give in to the illusion that we can completely prevent these changes, because they simply happen – with or without us. The challenge will be to be able to take as many as possible on the way to these changes in the business world, in the working world, in health, in education and in many ways. At the same time, however, I also believe that as a public hand, we need to consider how we can make the most of digitalisation opportunities, whether in communication with citizens or in the efficiency improvement in the administrative authorities. I would like to stress the need for policy action in terms of a strategy, an objective, as requested by Mr Alm's request. At that time, however, there was also State Secretary Mahrer and State Secretary Steßl and today State Secretary Duzdar, which has also led to the launch of a process of developing a digital roadmap, which, as already announced in the Committee, will be presented in the coming weeks. As far as the demand for a network ministry is concerned, I can understand the intention. I think it is also a matter of making the value of the issue visible. Nevertheless, digitalisation is a cross-sectional issue in my view, that is, there is an obligation for all ministries to deal with the importance of their own sphere of activity and to act accordingly. A Network Ministry could certainly initiate topics, make preliminary work, implement the cooperation of the respective ministers, but I also think that we are dealing with the current solution that two State Secretariats are dealing with this competence, which is already very close. It is still the responsibility of the two to communicate the results of a digital roadmap, to force the appropriate measures and to support the ministries in their implementation. I think we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16116	The next speaker is Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16138	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, I would like to say that I am pleased that the request was not delayed, shubled or treated differently, but that those responsible were able to make a decision on it, although in the result is negative, since the claims contained are already largely fulfilled. I believe, however, that it is important for the discussion to take place in addition to the one we have held before, and I expressly welcome the fact that the applications are actually where they belong, namely here in the house, and that they can be discussed here. I would like to quote briefly, with the author's permission, on the grounds of Mr Alm's request, which we all can actually sign: “Digitalization is in full swing. It will gradually pass through and fundamentally change all areas of our life and society, from education and work to leisure time. Similarly, the Internet is already a non-negligible economic factor, whose importance will continue to grow strongly. In Austria, however, there is still a strong ‘digital gap’:’ As mentioned earlier, the proposal came from July of last year. In the meantime, thank God has done a great deal, and this concerns all areas: Mr Unterrainer spoke about tourism, that one could discuss the areas of education, safety and civil servants – that is, that is, really all the areas of life. Given the way in which the government and what has been announced in the Committee, namely that the digital roadmap can be expected this year, and that, as explained, the integration of the federal government, countries and all concerned has taken place in the past, it can be said that what we want is the following – and I believe that this is a common commitment –: We want to design digitalisation and use it to create a fairer, equal society. It is not enough – and this was also a message of today’s discussion – to marvel at technologies, but we want and must also benefit them, and I believe that this commitment is given to the government. From my point of view, we have not only two dedicated State Secretarys, but also a dedicated research minister, who is quite exemplary in accepting this matter. I am actually looking forward to discussing the next issues. I mean, Mr Alm, the fish may not have been cleaned, but it is definitely caught. I am also not in favour of setting up a committee of my own to address the request in concrete terms – I believe that in view of what has been discussed today, this is really not necessary – and also a ministry of my own will not need it in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16183	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of its report 1290 of the supplements. Who agrees to this request? - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. [[18:54:37]] 16. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 60, 64, 66, 68 to 71, 73, 77, 81 to 84 and 86 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 86 and 100 to 102 (1284 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16225	We arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. First word message: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16250	Mr President. I refer to the petition 69/PET, handed over by Klubobmann Strache, our Presidential candidate Hofer and DDr. Fuchs. It is about the receipt of the cash. I think it is a pity that, as usual, this petition is given as part of a collection report, a funeral of the first class, because it really is an essential matter when it comes to receiving the cash. We remember that, under the pretext of combating crime at EU level, it has been decided to abolish the €500 figure. In reality, however, the citizens are also being wronged. According to EU Commissioners, terrorists, criminals and cetera are supposed to be removed from the basis of existence and funding. However, this is the case, and we assume that this will ultimately lead to a cash limit, which will be at €5,000 in a first step and €1,000 in a second step. The aim is to drive citizens fully into the electronic payment, thus making them monitoringable and, so to speak, bringing about American conditions. - We don't want to. Of course, we have also considered what the background of this action is. In reality, the ECB wants to stimulate nothing but the increase in negative interest rates accordingly and to clear the States at the expense of the savers. The switch from €500 to €200 light clearly leads to an increase in safety costs and, so to speak, to an increase in negative interest rates. The savers can no longer cancel their money, which means that states no longer have to pay interest for their debts, but they will keep the money, as it were, from the savers. If one hears that the head of the ECB, Draghi, is dissociating and saying that the abolition of the 500-€ phenomenon will never lead to a restriction of cash, then I would like to refer to a well-known quote from President Jean-Claude Juncker, who said – and this is also applicable here again – that: “We decide something, then put it in the room and wait a while for what happens. If then there is no great scream and no uprising, because most do not understand what has been decided, then we continue – step by step until there is no return.” Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of such a quote, we must be clear that we cannot have any confidence in the European Union and its top officials. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the second part of my speech, I would like to address the 100/BI citizens' initiative. This is about stopping the destruction of the federal army. I am glad that we can also say a few words about this. I am very glad that there has now been a rethinking within social democracy. The course of destruction of Darabos/Klug has been ended thanks to the activation of Minister Doskozil. Some steps have already been taken in this citizens' initiative. I would also say that is very, very important in the sense of the security of our country. So I'm also glad that it's going in the right direction. Nevertheless, there are some points that would be desirable. I just want to mention three of them now. You should really consider how to proceed with the sale of barracks. I just mention the example of the barracks in Baden. On the contrary, we should be aware of the challenge for the German army, find a new modern use for the Martinek barracks in Baden and modernize these barracks accordingly. A second point that is important to us, and since we have already set a step in the right direction, is the further attraction of the ground defense service. It would be the financial charge for ground defense servants. It is quite important to also create a steering effect by taking more money into the hands of the ground defenses. A third point – you know, this is also very important to me, I have already talked about it several times – concerns the continuation of the military real-egymnasium in Wiener Neustadt. I believe that it is also important to leave this false course and continue to maintain this Austrian traditional school. I would have liked to have discussed this citizens' initiative in the National Defence Committee, as there are still some open points that can be discussed, but I am confident that, unlike the predecessors Darabos and Klug, we will find another access to Minister Doskozil and that he is interested in our concerns and that we can talk about it. Finally, I would like to take the time to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Bernhard, for the fact that he is really very careful about this committee and is very interested in the further development of this committee. We always have very fruitful discussions on the future of the Committee. Thank you once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16322	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16343	Mr President. High house! At the last meeting, we discussed 38 petitions and citizens' initiatives, and I would just like to point out that only nine of these petitions and citizens' initiatives affected the free trade agreements. It must be said that we have carried out our own hearing in this committee and there has been a survey on it. When you see how the Federal Chancellor is on the way to make further improvements, I think it is very important that these petitions have been brought in and that they have also been the subject with us. There will be a letter tomorrow to all those who have submitted these petitions and citizens' initiatives, and for the first time in this committee will be in such a way that all six spokespersons will sign this letter and give a direct feedback to the consignors. I would like to address one point: With 37,000 signatures, “Excuse me!” is the citizens’ initiative that has the most support. This is a very important citizens' initiative, and we will still get an opinion from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because visa applications have always been confirmed by other countries. I think Mr Pirklhuber will also comment on this, and we want to know in which countries this is actually legally regarded as marriage. We have then dealt with many other petitions, on the topics of participation in the school partner area, strengthening the financial police, student tickets in Austria for public transport, and especially on the subject of cheaper living, especially regarding young living. I would like to thank you very much for this citizens' initiative. The broker commissions are also a subject that we have dealt with. There is therefore a wide range of issues being dealt with. It is of course true that not always everything is possible, one wants this assignment, the other one wants it. We have chosen a line, and I think that we all take these citizens' initiatives very seriously, take them as an incentive for our work and try to implement them. This can now be seen from the supplementary declaration to the CETA Treaty imposed by Mr Bundeskanzler.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16377	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16398	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the current petition collection report, I would like to refer to the Citizens' Initiative 101/BI “Austria-wide Student Ticket NOW!” which is very much in my heart because of the importance for the future of our young people. The more than 25 000 supporters of the citizens’ initiative “Austria-wide student ticket NOW!” call for the introduction of a student ticket for public transport throughout Austria. In the citizens' initiative, the student should: pay a retention of 360 € for 12 months, 180 € for six months or 90 € for three months. The condition for receiving the inscription is to be at an Austrian university. In order to prevent abuse, a certain degree performance must be demonstrated from the third semester. It is interesting to note in this context that the government programme of the current Federal Government established in 2013 provides for the creation of a student ticket. The Young ÖVP Niederösterreich has published on its site 2014 – I quote –: “Student ticket is coming! (...) Young ÖVP has prevailed during the negotiations with its call and has not made empty electoral promises". That's an announcement. To date, nothing has been done, on the contrary: The opinions we have received from the Committee explain that the respective ministries are not responsible for this. I am personally pleased that this concern has been assigned to the Transport Committee by the Committee on Petitions, and we are now curious about how the ÖVP and the SPÖ behave on this issue. I hope that this citizens' initiative will finally be implemented. For years this is demanded by the population, by petitions and citizens' initiatives. I am very confident that it will succeed, because if you want, it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16443	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16465	Mr President. Today I can devote myself to the petition which deals with the decriminalization of the assisted suicide. On the one hand, this decriminalisation is required, and on the other hand, improvements are being made in the field of hospice and palliative medicine. First of all, decriminalisation of the assisted suicide: We have discussed this intensively in the “Würde at the End of Life” Commission from 2014 to 2015. We were able to see that no one in Austria had yet been sentenced to this point because of the offence of assisted suicide or the offence of killing on request. I'm also not aware that someone would have been sentenced in the meantime. [[Call the NEOS: Does that mean it's legal?]] If that had been the case, that would probably have gone through the media, then we would have noticed. I therefore believe that I can say that this is certainly not a decriminalisation because no one has yet been criminalised. As regards criminal law as such or comparison to other countries to which the petition refers, I would like to say that it is, I believe, more than 190 countries worldwide, in which it is obvious that any killing is punishable on request or an assisted suicide. There are very few countries where this is not the case. I would like to stress two countries which are Belgium and the Netherlands. [[Call the NEOS:Switzerland!]] – Right, Mr. colleague, Switzerland too. In Belgium, there was now a very current case, namely that there was death aid for a minor for the first time. This has triggered an enormous protest tower, for example, the Board of Management of the Deutsche Stiftung has meant patient protection: “The killing at the request of children has nothing to do with worthy death.” You see, as it were, wherever that might lead. In Holland and Belgium, death aid has been massively increased in recent years. In the Netherlands, the figures from 2007, when there were 2 123 cases a year, rose to 5 306 cases until 2014. This means that in Holland 14 persons daily commit suicide with foreign help. We have discussed this intensively and have come to the conclusion that we do not need any further measures in this area, in particular because it is always important for a conviction to be made as to whether there is a responsible behaviour, and this has not been established in the past. So sometimes as understandable as personal cases are, on the other hand, it is always to judge what a general release of the killing on demand means when, in the future, the individual person, who is old, basically has no protection from being killed. In this field of tension we are moving, so here, I think, we are still very careful. In order to address the further demands of this petition, we have made 50 recommendations in this Committee of Inquiry, including that there is a Hospice and Palliative Forum. We have used this to implement the wishes for increased support in the Hospice and Palliative sectors. There are two chairmen who have been appointed, on the one hand the former head of state Waltraud Klasnic, on the other hand the former councillor of Vienna, Dr. Elisabeth Pittermann, who are both more concerned about this extension. On the other hand, we also have the area of patient provision, also a law is already in preparation, the review process will probably begin soon. We are also reorientating the field of expertise, and we are also taking appropriate measures to this end. I can assure you that these 50 recommendations, which have been made – I believe they have even been adopted unanimously by the House – are very consciously and intensively perceived and implemented by all those responsible. I hope very much and am also confident that this €18 million in particular for the Palliative and Hospice Service, which has been agreed between the federal government, countries and social security institutions, will soon come true. – In this sense, thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16508	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16530	Mr President. High house! I may briefly lose a few words on the petition 77/PET of the current legislative period for the reopening of the police station at the Central Station in Klagenfurt. Over 2,000 citizens have signed this petition. The reason, however, is not a subjective and lacking sense of security, but a much more objective one, because the BMI's 2015 security report has shown that in Klagenfurt, crime increased from 2014 to 2015, for example in the area of burglary by 14.8 percent or in the area of violent crime by 2.5 percent. It can be seen that there is the savings course of the Ministry of the Interior, at the time still under Mrs Mikl- Leitner, during which police posts were saved. In addition, in Klagenfurt's nightlife, the abuses against women and young people on neural points, such as a railway station, obviously increase in general. So this concern of the Klagenfurt citizens is justified, I think, obviously. The Carinthian state government sees this as it is, and this is what the Klagenfurt city government sees and also wishes to open up the police station Klagenfurt. Not that is clearly the view of the National Council, because the petition is shubbled like everyone else. I believe that the Minister for Finance has said today that the wish of a majority of fellow citizens must be met. In addition, we need to ensure the security of our beautiful country, because Austria must remain a safe country in the future. If I make this statement, which I think everyone still has in their ears, you can see that this promise is not worth a cent in view of how to deal with this petition. This convinces us once again that this government does not really want to invest something in security. We liberals will continue to stand not only for the reopening of the police station at the Klagenfurt Central Station, but also for us where it is necessary to use for the reopening or opening of police stations or for a significant increase in the executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16572	The next speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16593	Mr President. Mr Mölzer, we did not agree with the information either, because we also believe there is a need for action in Klagenfurt. In spite of all this, however, I must say that the Committee's work has really progressed over the last two or three years, including understanding and dealing with the concerns of citizens. It is not always easy to take the next step and also to have the courage to assign the concerns directly to the specialist committees, but this time again three decisions were taken which, I think, were very correct and wise. That is also the reason why we now agree. We have allocated three citizens' initiatives or concerns to the Justice Committee. One was the question of decriminalisation of assisted suicide, a very difficult and delicate subject. We have allocated the Citizens' Initiative 101/BI concerning the Austrian student ticket to the Transport Committee, and we have allocated the Citizen's Initiative 102/BI, freedom of choice needs to be given to the Teaching Committee on the issue of model regions and special schools, on which differing views can also be taken. It is about negotiating and discussing where the experts of the House, i.e. the Members of Parliament, are sitting, namely in the teaching committee. So this is a positive move on this matter. On this occasion I would also like to thank Mr Lipitsch, who, in my opinion, has also noted something remarkable today. He said that it was good that these resolutions were brought in by the communities. I say this because, so far, there has always been a discussion in the committee whether it is right, wise and necessary to bring in community resolutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lipitic.]] – Yes, the communities should have the opportunity to bring in resolutions themselves – exactly, Mr Lipitsch! – but we would need to develop a little further in business order. But, unfortunately, this is not the case at the moment. It was a resolution to the Federal Government that the National Council had decided to be very critical of TTIP, CETA or TiSA. I brought them in. The resolution is not supported by everyone, there are hundreds of communities, but it is about showing that there is a great discussion at local level and that the concerns of the citizens are taken very seriously. These are municipalities from Lower Austria, Ti- role, Upper Austria, Carinthia, Styria, from Schwaz to Ansfelden to Thal near Graz. So this is very wide-ranging, and there were similar resolutions throughout Austria. I think we have done this really well, and with the joint support for hearing, we have made the first move that someone here in Parliament was invited by the EU level and had to speak and answer. I mean, it is also a success of our committee that a cross-party survey has been initiated and that has been carried out together in a good way. I think this is an opportunity for this committee. Of course, we also need public perception. There is again and again a plea or a question, when the report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is being debated in the public. I think it would be time for us to really get a real prime time – then when important concerns are discussed at the heart of the debate. We have important things in the pipeline, for example, marriage right!, the colleague has already mentioned it. There are more than 30 000 support for this. We are still waiting for an opinion from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is also a petition concerning psychotherapy on a health certificate which is currently under negotiation. So there are still issues that are very critical and deserve to be negotiated once in a very good time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Diesner-Wais.]] – Yes, it is always the question of the discussion when the best time is, I am here with you, Mrs Diesner-Wais. I just mean that we have to work to ensure that it is seriously discussed and well placed in the public. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16657	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16678	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Pirklhuber, one is clear, the best time is, of course, not now. I've been looking at this from behind: I understand that I may not be better, but if you look into the round like that, the attention is ending up. Of course, the willingness to follow up the debate via television will also be desirable. There are really absolutely important issues and, above all, of course, the commitment of citizens must be appreciated. For example, if I speak today about petition 102, freedom of choice!, regarding the offer of special schools, I can point out that this petition was supported by 24 049 citizens. That's a beautiful number. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Is assigned eh!]] That is indeed an important question. It is, of course, also assigned to the Teaching Committee, and I can say here that this petition is, of course, fully supported by the Freedom Party and also by me as a former teacher. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Citizens' Initiative! No petition, citizens' initiative!]] Look, parents of children with special educational needs don't have it easy from home anyway, so you have to look at these children and try to ensure that these children are properly promoted and demanded! I did not hold a press conference in Tyrol for too long, and I also gave an opinion on it with a affected parent. Without a name designation, I can only bring the example here: There are, of course, children who are severely disturbed and who are difficult to integrate into normal school. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Remarkable!]] – The parents of the child are best aware of this, as is the case in this petition. It's bad to assume, parents don't know what's best for their child. That's why: Integration, of course, where integration is possible and useful – of course that is to be sought! – but where, from the parents’ point of view, a special school, a special pedagogical centre is better, you can take this into account. Unfortunately, there are also children who need to learn the practical skills of life, such as to go to the toilet, for example, to take off and take off, which also require retreats during a day of school, which also require the corresponding spaces offered in special schools. That's why you really have to take this approach seriously and find out: The choice is the decisive one. Only if special educational centres are preserved will there be this option, and these citizens have brought in this petition because they say: We fear that the special schools will be abandoned, and we do not want to! I therefore really ask you to take this petition seriously, to take the parents concerned seriously, because for their children the best is just enough. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16741	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16763	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers! The previous speaker has just asked us to take petitions and citizens' initiatives more seriously or seriously. – I think that today and at least for this moment we can say with a lot of self-confidence that we take this seriously – at least those who were present at the last Committee on Petitions. We have seen that, as I believe, there were very controversial discussions in terms of content, especially in the field of education, and the concern has been assigned to the teaching committee. That is exactly what the Committee on Petitions is thinking, and this is already a further development compared to what we have experienced in the past. As chairman of the Committee on Petitions in plenary, I have already strongly criticized things, but at the beginning my colleagues, Lipitsch and Gahr, have also criticised this once and for all, but what we have experienced in recent months was the opposite trend towards what is now being written by the great coalition in the media: We six political groups have cooperated very cooperatively in the Committee on Petitions. We are dealing here, and this is often forgotten, in the on-the-spot dialogue, for which I have been involved at the last committee meetings, between 3 and 5 per cent of the Austrian electorate, so there are often between 180 000 and 350 000 people who have supported one or the other initiative by signing. The central element that we MEPs must ask ourselves as a question is: How do we deal with people? How easy is it to bring directly to Parliament the concern you yourself have, without needing a party or a parliamentarian? – And at least in the last 12 months, it has become easier – not easy, but easier. I cannot call on this often enough – and I already have a collection of ideas for reform to my colleagues in SPÖ and ÖVP. Proposals on which we now want to discuss very concretely – but we have taken a few steps forward. I would like to address two points before my speaking time is over. We had – I believe – ten communities in the committee, representing almost 200 municipalities, who were critical of the TTIP and CETA free trade agreements. I did not share the criticism personally, but the question is how to deal with it. We as the Committee on Petitions have organised a hearing, there was a parliamentary survey under international participation, in which the subject was discussed, and now the communities are for the first time receiving a written answer from the National Council directly from the National Council – not a standard letter from a half-way, that they have taken note of and dealt with the matter, but they are given a concrete speech and answer, what we have done as we have done, why we have done it and when we have done it. I think this is a first step. This is again a new pilot project, in which the individual institutions are beginning to communicate in both directions, i.e. communities, federal states, national councils and Europe are beginning to speak directly with each other, and not just the respective governments. Secondly, because Mr Gerstl presented it in his speech as if there had already been a decision on petition No 73/PET, examining the possibility and consequences of the decriminalisation of assisted suicide: We decided that we would pass this on to the Committee on Justice, as there was no further decision. I can only quote our colleagues Loacker, because I am also the bringer of the petition: “The desires at the end of life are as different as life itself,” and no one of us today knows exactly what he wants at the end of life. The task of politics can and must be to give people the freedom to realize their wishes. That's our goal, and that's what I'm gonna end up for today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16820	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16841	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. I am very pleased that more and more people's concerns are finding their way into Parliament. I take a position on the petition No 69/PET, the creation of a Federal Constitutional Law on the Freedom to Unlimited the use of cash in payment transactions. The five hundred euro, ladies and gentlemen, is already history. This petition, even if it is not entirely new from the date, has its right and importance. Under the guise of combating money laundering, efforts are constantly being made to restrict the freedom of citizens. In a world without cash there is also no freedom and no more privacy. In reality, the ECB - I believe it was addressed by Mr Hafenecker - is about increasing the negative interest rates, the so-called penalty interest rates, so that the high-indebted states can be relieved of the savers, and that is not all right. Freedom of choice must also be given in the future. Cash is printed freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16878	The next speaker is Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16899	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I refer to the 69/BI citizens' initiative, which is committed to the anonymous collection of figures and motives for abortions. We have discussed this citizens' initiative in the last committee, and it has been decided to seek a further opinion from the Federal liaison body. I am addressing this issue today because it is a very important and sensitive issue and because there is really a lot behind it and the citizens' initiative has been working for a very long time, but the figures that do not exist. We need well-founded figures and data so that good prevention work can also be done and thus also women, who can really help couples. The comments of the Austrian Medical Chamber and the Austrian Institute for Family Research welcome the introduction of an anonymous statistics on abortions. We have now also discussed this in the Committee. This topic was also discussed at the hearing in June of this year, but unfortunately the SPÖ – and here it is not without the consent of SPÖ – comes a rejection: a rejection on the grounds that one has to focus more attention on prevention and needs no figures. Especially in the case of such an important topic, ladies and gentlemen, you can not only rely on estimates, but you really need well-founded numerical material, from which you can then assume. In the hearing, the first signatory also pointed out the problem and also drew the comparison with Germany, where these anonymous statistics exist and where the number of abortions from 2004 to 2015 could be reduced by 20 percent. This, ladies and gentlemen, is, as I mean, an example of how it should go and that there is nothing bad behind it. The time-limit solution is in no way affected by this, which has been clearly stated by the donors, by the initiators of this citizens' initiative. That is why I do not understand the rejection of the SPÖ and the Greens. I also do not understand the repeated argumentation in the Committee because it would really help and because we would also need these figures. From this point of view, I would like to ask you to reconsider your behaviour so that we can, if we do so in the next committee. Your last opinion, which really comes to a decision, has come to a solution and put the demands of this citizens' initiative, which is very important, here in the House in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16939	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e16961	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Schenk, we will probably be taking part in the next Committee on Petitions and, as I believe, in plenary or have the opportunity to talk about this petition in the committee responsible. I have only two minutes of speaking time and, because I would like to address another subject, I therefore do not replicate now, but I think we will have to discuss it again, and we can then explain our reasons for the rejection again. I would like to go back to the Citizen's Initiative 102/BI: Freedom of choice needs choice! in which it is required to ensure that special schools are preserved. Signatorys simply fear that further development of the so-called model regions will lead to the abolition of the special schools or the special school classes and that this could also result in a disadvantage of the children. You would like the parallel system, if I may call it so, to be maintained, namely the integration classes on the one hand and the special schools on the other. The Ministry has stated in the opinion that it refers to the government programme, to the National Action Plan for People with Disabilities and also to the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, which all actually argue that, regardless of whether they have SPF or not, they should be jointly trained, but also jointly promoted, i.e. that they are in a school, but that one should conduct an internal differentiation. The model region is a step in this direction, but further development should not lead to poorer education for children. On the contrary: I think the goal of the ministry and also the signatory is the best training and, of course, the best promotion of the children. The way you want to go is perhaps another one, but the goal is one hundred percent the same. I would like to tell the contributors that, of course, one takes the fears seriously – we looked at them well – but on the other hand, one should also see the opportunities offered by an inclusive school to the individual child and also to our society.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17003	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17024	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the first place, I should like to point out that we in the Committee are working constructively, that despite different positions, we are always able to ensure that we treat the petitions and citizens' initiatives as best we can, and that we are taking advantage of all possibilities to act in the interests of those who bring in and transfer them. This collective report – Mr Pirklhuber has said it – shows that, in particular on CETA and TTIP, as I believe, we have tried, in the interests of the communities, to clarify, to present fears and concerns, and that, I think, we have also made a contribution to making a little bit of transparency on this issue. I should like to take a short look at the citizens' initiative: Stop the federal army disorder! For a safe Austria! In this context, I would like to thank the Austrian Wehrlike Platform. 45 000 have signed this citizens' initiative, so it is carried by 45 000 people. Six demands have been made concerning the power of the Federal Government, including modern equipment, the maintenance of the principle of militia, the cessation of the rule of law. selling properties and stopping the financial cuts, but also maintaining military music. In May, the Federal Minister for State Defense presented a package which largely meets the demands of this citizens' initiative, such as the maintenance of barracks sites; the helicopter support point – a concern of mine – in Vomp and in Klagenfurt, which would have been affected by closures, will be reactivated. Each federal state has its military music again, the expenses for the military commanders will be increased, and with these additional resources we also succeed in buying new equipment for our federal army. I should also like to mention positively that there are efforts in the federal army, particularly as regards the use of staff, that there are savings in the ministry at the planning points, and that new jobs are being created elsewhere as regards the external presence. I should like to thank Mr Doskozil and Mr Schelling for the financial basis and the organisation of the realignment. I think this citizens' initiative has also contributed to bringing in movement. Finally, I would like to invite all my colleagues here to the House: I believe that citizens' initiatives and petitions are, as I believe, a valuable contribution to bringing political diversity into this House. There are always citizens, and the diversity of petitions and citizens' initiatives also shows that here we need a direct and – let me put it this way – sustainable way to deal with the concerns of the population seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17076	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17097	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watchers in front of the televisions after work! [[The speaker introduces a panel to the speaker’s desk, which shows some buildings and the text “CETA, SO NOT! ”]] On this item on the agenda: I am grateful to all the initiators of citizens' initiatives, because I believe that it is very essential that the interests of citizens be collected. In turn, I remember Stéphane Hessel’s title “Be outrageous! ” and“ Engage! ” I think it is very essential not to let politics drive, but also a clear desire to give a clear mandate to politics. I see here a wealth of citizens' initiatives and petitions, for example the petition concerning TTIP/CETA/TISA-free community, which comes from the market community Sieghartskirchen, over those from Spittal on the Drau to the municipality of Schwaz. The request of the local farmers committee Meggenhofen is also very well known, which is the home community of our agricultural council Max Hiegelsberger. This one is apparently and outwardly a very joyful advocate of CETA. Please sit down at home with his farmers and see how they are doing! I believe that this is the great advantage of the citizens' initiatives: that they represent these fears, these legitimate concerns and also bring them into Parliament. This goes, of course, to freedom, through the full use of the cash via the student tickets until the reopening of the police station at the main station in Klagenfurt. – Congratulations to all citizens who are involved! I should also like to remind you of the petition on fair food that has already been brought in. Why did I take this panel? [[point to the panel on the speaker's desk]] Today, we have discussed the Supply Security Act at Agenda item 5. Some people are not yet so aware – because sometimes more loose reports come towards climate change, towards Taifun in Haiti, towards palm oil imports or rain forest deforestation – but this is a pattern example. These are stables, these are industrial stables in Ukraine, which are built with money by the European Investment Bank, where steel systems are invested and subsidized, which we have prohibited here in Austria by animal welfare law. [[Abg. Right!]] If these are the effects of these regulatory agreements – because CETA is a regulatory agreement – then there is exactly the risk that the products will come from these stables, and we will lose jobs, we will lose the cultivated cultural landscape and, of course, we will also lose production. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as Deputies Gahr, Höbart and Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this must not be done, it must be prevented. I am convinced that we will continue to have very interesting discussions tomorrow, from the budget to the Green Report, but today I am able to put forward a motion for a resolution by Members Steinbichler, colleagues on the food crisis plan, which is quite simply about the following: We have already heard today, and we have been able to track it in the media in the last few days, sometime at a time we are being discussed setting up ten-day stocks. This goes from energy to food to water. Therefore, the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17167	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17234	Next word: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17257	Mr President. High house! The Committee has made a great deal of progress in its development in recent years, and it is not acceptable to the initiators of the citizens' initiatives and petitions when we set our eyes on it by discussing how many petitions are referred to specialist committees or at what time the plenary debate begins. We are in a good way to decide politically what citizens' initiatives and petitions we are saying Yes, which we are going on to discuss on the subject, to which we are organising surveys and hearings and which we take note of. One of these we take note of is the Citizens' Initiative: For a safe Austria! The petitioners themselves write that they are very grateful to the Austrian National Council for the six-party request from November 2015, in which we have decided to increase the funds for military defence. We have heard it today in the budget speech of the Minister of Finance, additional €1.3 billion will be made available to the Austrian Federal Army by 2020 to invest, on the one hand, in equipment, mobility, in the accommodation of both the present and the professional soldiers, on the other hand, more in exercise. However, the German army also wants to be an attractive employer for Austrians; last but not least, there has been a call to hire as a helicopter pilot or pilot at the Austrian federal army. It is also the means we need to carry out new tasks: for the investigation, for cyber defence, but of course also for the protection of critical infrastructure and for the protection of disasters at home and abroad. I believe that we have taken the right course with this all-party proposal and have therefore also supported the ambitions of this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17295	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17316	Mr President. High house! I may report on the following petition: creation of a Federal Constitutional Law on the Freedom to unlimited use of cash in payment transactions. It is argued with the planned abolition of the 500 euro bar and the introduction of cash limits as almost the first steps towards a complete abolition of cash – under the cover of the fight against money laundering and terrorism. On the other hand, the Federal Ministry of Finance noted: “As an expression of the constitutionally guaranteed private autonomy, the use of legally approved euro banknotes and coins is undisputed. [...] With regard to the resolution of the National Council, the Federal Ministry of Finance will, of course, continue to work in the future in “the European Union and the international community to ensure that the full payment of euro banknotes and coins is not “reduced and cash retained as a means of payment”. In addition, there is a request from the Member of the European Parliament to the Commissioner for Finance Jonathan Hill, who said to Karas: The European Commission has no plans to abolish the cash, nor does it intend to do so. no discussion on limiting cash payments to a certain maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17358	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17380	Mr President. Appreciate High House! The collective report, which includes many petitions and citizens' initiatives, which are partly of personal interest and partly of collective interest, presents a work that covers all sectors of society – areas that currently enjoy very large media presence. I am thinking here, for example, of the topics TTIP, CETA and TiSA, the arbitration courts, which are very strongly represented by the media. The other issues included health, education, internal and external security and asylum. I can speak a few words on the subject of education. The petitions and citizens' initiatives dealt with important issues such as participation rights in the school partnership and the establishment of model regions. One important point is the preservation of the establishment of the Special Education Centre and the Special School. Today, in the budget speech of the Minister of Finance, we have heard how the financial resources for 2017 will be allocated as they are set out. Here we can see that the budget estimate for education is a large part of it. And we can also be pleased to note that more budgetary resources are being made available to the field of education in order to further expand the education provision, as mentioned earlier. Our Mrs. Federal Minister, out of service, can sing a song about how difficult this is. I believe that Austria is continuing to take an ambitious course in education with this proposal for education, which is certainly not very easy to support in order to enable the best possible training and training of our children and young people. I therefore see the concerns of some citizens' initiatives and petitions not only in the Committee, but also in the budget proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17413	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17434	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! I refer to the Citizen's Initiative 102/BI: “We need freedom of choice!” in which we are dealing with the model regions. The Citizens' Initiative fears that special schools will no longer exist in model regions, and rejects any pressure on a system. We have requested an opinion from the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Education has written to us, in the work programme of the Federal Government and also in the National Action Plan for Disability, the development of model regions and the development of integration is planned. It was also noted, however, that the responsibility for carrying out compulsory schooling and thus special schools lies with the federal states. I think we have the obligation to take these initiatives very seriously and also all other citizens' initiatives. We as the ÖVP also understand this demand, because we are also in favour of freedom of choice. However, there is still a need to clarify the need for joint learning of children with disabilities and children without disabilities. I also believe that it is not every child's integrative or inclusive to care for in class. Teacherry is of the opinion that it is not yet very well prepared to take over this task in the regular education system, because there is often a lack of training courses and teaching materials. It also takes the necessary time and motivation to maintain a class integratively. And as I said, the buildings are not yet accessible everywhere and therefore need to be rebuilt accordingly. It simply must not be the enemy of the proven. The special educational centres do good work, and I think we need to look at it individually for each child. But I also want to highlight the excellent work done by teachers in the special schools, but also in the regular schools, and so I would like to say a warm thank you to all teachers. But the most important thing is: The child must always be at the centre of the reflections, and the question must be: What is the best way to promote the child? What needs to be ensured so that the school can offer the best possible opportunities for the child in the future? So, of course, the possibility of integration is an important one, but also special facilities will be necessary in the future. We have allocated this citizens' initiative to the Teaching Committee, and there, I think, it will be best advised.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17480	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17501	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the major challenges of last year – and is of course also present – was the management of refugee flows, housing and integration of asylum seekers and asylum seekers. In September 2015, the Citizens' Initiative 86/BI concerning decent admission of asylum seekers was introduced. It calls for the accommodation of asylum seekers according to human rights standards, in particular: providing decent accommodation, adequate food and health care, special measures for vulnerable groups such as sick, pregnant or underage refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria's ability to cope with the huge flow of refugees is due to the great performance of police, federal army, Red Cross, workers'-Samariter-Bund, Caritas and many other organizations, but a major contribution to this has been made mainly by private individuals, who have contributed significantly to the fact that we have been able to disintegrate this situation. They have provided support and support to refugees and have also provided them in many areas of accommodation. Especially in many small communities, the help of private individuals was inextricable. From this point of view, I should also like to thank all the private individuals, associations and organisations for their support. It is likely for everyone undisputed that in the first months of the great move, of course, everything did not work as we would have liked. In the end, however, – and this also shows the five opinions – there are the necessary framework conditions on the part of the Federal Government and the countries that ensure that we can fulfil the corresponding tasks. I should like to ask for support and to take note of this citizens' initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17543	The next speaker is Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17565	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too would like to deal with the petition that Mr Hell has now referred to. ==References====External links== September 2015, i.e. a year ago, and it simply includes, as already mentioned, the question of the decent reception of asylum seekers. At that time, of course, this basic supply was in the foreground. Today, a year later, it looks different. Why? – Because we have mastered this basic provision to God with the support and great commitment of the federal government, the countries, the municipalities, many organizations and many, many individuals in spite of all the difficulties. In this context, we must never forget that we have offered very, very many people protection compared to many European countries. And today, a year later, the focus, as I said, is not on basic care, but on the integration of these people. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity today to make real use of this opportunity to help all those in need of help and protection in a variety of ways, whether in the head office or on a voluntary basis, to help them to integrate. Great respect for these women and men, who have been working for a long time now and who provide very valuable services to the people seeking protection, especially for those people who can stay in our country! Without their help, integration would be impossible! Ladies and gentlemen, even in my home community, they are employees of the Red Cross, but also very many volunteers who work for our refugees. I am delighted to note that this commitment has already caused children to be transferred to regular school or that it is now possible for many adults to make contacts in German. After a year, it is clear to me how valuable knowledge in German is for integration. Therefore, all power must be put in the mediation of the German language. Only in this way can integration succeed with all the opportunities for the people concerned themselves and for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17598	The next speaker is Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17619	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For some 14 years now, the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has always been the last item on the agenda, with a single exception. Now you can say that's a speech about things that aren't important. But I think it is very important that this point is not always the last one on the agenda because it deals with the concerns of citizens. Mr Bernhard has already said that there are thousands of citizens whose concerns we are dealing with here, and it cannot be said that this item on the agenda is the last item on the agenda all the time. [[Abg. Brosz: The agenda will prepare your club directors! Maybe you'll talk to the club directors once! That's absurd, really!]] President Hofer has promised me the last three times that he will bring this into the presidential office, he will see that this will not be the case any more. It seems that he has not done it, or it has done nothing, because it is again the last item on the agenda today. [[Abg. Brosz: Every proposal on the agenda comes from the club directors of SPÖ and ÖVP! Everyone!]] I now have the request, Mr President-in-Office, for you to put this issue into the presidency and see that next time this point is not the last point, but one of the front points so that it can be dealt with earlier. [[Abg. Brosz: Every proposal on the agenda comes from your club directors!]] Now to this collection report: This time the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has dealt with a total of 14 petitions and four citizens' initiatives. In addition, we have dealt with many more petitions and citizens' initiatives in the Committee, and there have been exactly 38 items on the agenda. However, this time there was a special feature: There were a number of petitions by municipalities that had the content of the TTIP and CETA Free Trade Agreements and the TiSA Service Agreement, which have already been discussed here today. There has also been a survey on CETA and TTIP on the part of the National Council, and these concerns have been taken into account. Finally, I would like to ask you once again, Mr President: In the Presidency, consider that the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives' Report is not on the agenda as the last item in the future! [[Abg. Brosz: Again: Every proposal on the agenda comes from your club directors! That's not normal, is it?]] Many club members agree, but it somehow fails.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17699	Mr Keck, I should like to inform you that the agenda for each plenary session in the Presidency, in which the three presidents plus all six club members – or representatives of the clubs – are present, is generally, with very few exceptions, agreed, not to say unanimously. So it will not be up to me alone, nor to Mr Hofer, nor to Mrs Bures, but to all of us to agree on it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Next speaker: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17732	Mr President. High house! Mr. Keck, your criticism is absolutely empty! It's 8:00 – Primetime! Hundreds of thousands sit in front of the television and watch and listen to us banned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I am speaking today about the 101/BI citizens' initiative. This citizens' initiative was supported and brought in by 2,822 people, and 25,894 people supported it online. [[Bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] The aim of this initiative is “Austria-wide student ticket NOW!” and this is quite understandable. But if the consignee is to be the family ministry, then the consignee is simply wrong, because the FLAF is simply not intended by law for the financing of this claim. But what opportunities do we currently have for students to travel in Austria? – There is the advantage card for the among 26-year-olds, who can buy by 19 €, and then each student can drive with 50 percent discount. I think that's a good way. We have also introduced in various federal states, namely Lower Austria, Vienna and Burgenland, the top youth ticket, which is basically intended for pupils and trainees, for students. That is why, Mrs Mühlberghuber, the statement of the JVP Niederösterreich is that she has enforced herself with her long-standing demand, quite right, and I congratulate the JVP Niederösterreich! [[Congratulations and bravoruf with representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, the demand in this citizens' initiative is quite different. Here a combined ticket is required, which applies throughout Austria. The Top Youth Ticket, extended to all over Austria, would cause approximately €150 million of additional costs. This demand for a combined ticket, with which a student could then travel from Bregenz to Vienna, not only from home to the study location, but even across Austria, would increase this extra effort by a multiple number, he would almost reach the amount of € 1 billion. As far as this demand is concerned, we must therefore say that it would be nice if that were possible, but we need to consider funding, how this can be financed. That is why we have also allocated this initiative to the Transport Committee in the Committee on Petitions, and I am convinced that there will be a very intense discussion of the possibilities for financing this call. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17792	The next speaker is Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17814	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate television. I am referring to the petition “Yes to Help – No to the Mass Camp” and to the Citizens’ Initiative 100/BI, namely “Stop the Federal Force Disorder!” I would also like to invite the FPÖ to give approval to these two initiatives, the petition and the citizens' initiative, because since the introduction of both the petition and the citizens' initiative, much has changed in substance. In 2015, we had hotspots in the refugee crisis in Austria. Many Austrians, Burgenländerinnen, but also many parish citizens from Bruckneudorf, along with municipal councillor and mayor, are and have been very happy to help actively. That has also been necessary and correct. But one thing is clear: We cannot grant home and reception to all asylum seekers who apply for asylum in Austria. [[Demonstrative applause and bravoruf des Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I therefore believe that the maximum of 37 500 asylum seekers is set correctly and that the emergency regulation should enter into force if necessary. In this regard, what does “Yes to Help – No to the Mass Camp” mean? – Over 50 asylum seekers have been granted protection and assistance in the municipality of Bruckneudorf, with the help of the municipality and also with the help of private initiatives. In addition, 400 to 500 asylum seekers should be accommodated at the initiative of the BMI there. There was a corresponding protest of the population from Bruckneudorf and the region. The municipality agreed with the Ministry of the Interior that a container village should be built for 100 asylum seekers. There was also the agreement that after six months 50 persons should stay there. In the recent past, the Ministry of the Interior has been ardent. However, I am allowed to report positively when, under the leadership of the mayor, the municipality agreed with the Ministry of the Interior that the container village, as originally intended and fixed in the agreement, will be closed by the end of the current year. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Two more short words on the 100/BI citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17856	Your club has no more speaking time. The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17871	The final sentence: For half a year, there has been a turnaround in the Federal Government's strategic orientation, to more personnel and to better equipment. € 1.13 billion are available in addition by 2020. I thank Minister Doskozil for this – and you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17909	Next speaker: Mr Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17930	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I refer to the petition 77/PET concerning the “Reopening of the police inspection Central Station Klagenfurt”. It is undisputed that a state has many important tasks, and one of the most important tasks is to ensure security and thereby increase the subjective sense of security of the population. This morning we heard the budget speech of our Minister of Finance, and according to it, it is planned to make 440 million euros more of money available to the Interior for 2017. This means a budget of €3.47 billion for internal security. For the petition itself, a statement was received by the Ministry of the Interior, which concerns the aggregation of police inspections. It therefore serves to optimise police structures with the aim of maintaining the high security standard we have in Austria. As a result, fewer officials are assigned to administrative duties and more officials are assigned to the field service and to strip service – because more police officers in the office certainly do not bring more security, but they only bring police on the street, in the outside, on the line. It is also important to pay attention to the police's own security, and this is only possible in the case of a corresponding personneling of police inspections. In addition, the National Police Directorate was specifically commissioned to carry out more external and stripping work at the Central Station in Klagenfurt and in the district of Klagenfurt. Finally, I would like to thank the police every day for their commitment to the security of our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17964	Mr Schmid has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e17985	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! On the Citizens' Initiative 86/BI: This citizens' initiative deals with the education of young foreigners and the decent housing of asylum seekers. It should be noted that acceptable accommodation for asylum seekers has been created and will, however, increase so-called wild accommodation. Registered asylum seekers are mostly available for permanent accommodation. Grandparents belong to the past. Wild, illegal, freely recognizable over- postage and housing are mainly organised beggar groups, mostly from Romania. However, as far as the units of asylum are concerned, it is often to be noted that order and recognition seem to be a foreign word. Similarly, the appreciation of the services provided free of charge is often left to be desired. Numerous negative examples are detectable. One word for schooling: In many schools or school classes, the number of schoolchildren working asyl is now higher than the number of schoolchildren in the home. A general common education is to be questioned and is not an insignificant disadvantage for our children. The willingness to be voluntary and the pain limit of our people are exaggerated, and it must not continue to be overshadowed. And now to the Citizens' Initiative 100/BI: It is to be said that the situation of our army was or was to be described as serious. In the defence department, there was an assessment that conflicts were long-term; and the disassembly of our army to be held over years by the ministers Darabos and Klug is a mistake that cannot be fixed in the short term. Security has failed its price, and this is all the more so than the EU has failed to protect external borders. The waves of refugees require the protection of our borders and thus our population. Now, the building of a robbery is now taking place on our army, especially as the current situation requires and justifys a huge financial effort. May a late insight develop for the benefit of our army, including military music. Positive developments have been initiated by Minister Doskozil and are to be continued by him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e18030	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e18052	Mr President. Just a short while to petition 71/PET because, I believe, it is exemplary for the last months. It's about refugee accommodation, in this case in Bruckneudorf. Many of us are active in municipal politics and have had a lot to do with this issue, were also confronted with questions such as: Does the community hold the 1.5-percent quota? What about large quarters? I believe that one can only say in conclusion that we all work together to inform the Ministry of the Interior in good time that the countries or the relevant speakers in the countries, in the national governments, do the same because, of course, it often causes fear in the population when asylum seekers or refugees are accommodated in large numbers in their own community. I have experienced this myself in my home community, where we were a hotspot with over 1,500 people. You just have to keep an eye on the fact that the domestic population is not overwhelmed. I believe, however, that the Ministry of the Interior has done this together with the municipalities, together with the countries in recent years, very well. But again: It will certainly be necessary to look in the future at how this goes on. The numbers of refugees are calming down a little. And now I can wish you a nice evening and don't want to stop you any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e18085	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[20:11:50]] We shall come to the vote. Vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 1284 of the supplements relating to petitions No. 60, 64, 66, 68 to 71, 73, 77, 81 to 84 and 86 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. To note 86 and 100 to 102. Who agrees? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues on the Food Crisis Plan. Who agrees to this request? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[20:12:50]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00146_d7e18145	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 1857/A(E) to 1864/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 8.13 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
