ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e379	I'll open the 159. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, MEPs are reported Krist, Grillitsch, Dr. Nachbaur, Mag. Johannes Rauch, Mag. Zakostelsky, Kickl, Mölzer, Ing. Schellenbacher, Strache and Gessl-Ranftl. [[18:22:30]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e413	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[18:22:40]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00159_d7e712	Ladies and gentlemen! Despite advanced time and after reading six pages of the Official Protocol, allow me to address you a few words at the end of the year. It is the last meeting of a very moving year behind us; it is the Christmas celebration and the Christmas holidays ahead of us. This year, Parliament was in a special focus. We have adopted a Federal President in the historic meeting room in our midst. We have for the first time elected a woman to the head of the Court of Auditors. We have completed the first committee of inquiry after a whole new set of rules after a total of 79 intensive meetings. We celebrated a day of open doors on our National Day with a festival of democracy and art with 15,000 guests – so many visitors have never been to Parliament. Only recently have we held back the impressive and touching state act of responsibility to those people who have suffered cruel injustice in state and church institutions. With today's day we have brought 129 laws into operation this year. Even if it is already late, I do not want to let this meeting pass without thanking all the staff of Parliament, the staff of the clubs and, of course, your employees, namely the staff of Members, for their professional work. [[General condolences.]] I would like to thank you very much – in return for everyone here in the house who has really done exceptional things this year – for the director of Parliament Dr. Harald Dossi and the two vice directors Dr. Susanne Janistyn-Novák and Mag. Alexis Wintoniak. – Thank you very much for the careful leadership of this house! [[General condolences.]] I would also like to thank the Second and Third Presidents of the National Council. Of course, such a labour-intensive year also presents great challenges to the Second and Third Presidents and to me. There was another challenge we faced: An exceptional situation required that we also have to carry out the Federal President's official business in recent months. I have seen the Second and Third Presidents as very collegial and very professional in carrying out these additional tasks which the Constitution has delegated to us. I would like to tell you that I really appreciate this, and thank you personally very much for it. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to thank the club members who have shown this year that they are always working towards a very consensus-oriented way of working, even if this is not quite the case in individual debates; however, in the overall consideration at the end of the year, we can take a positive balance. That is why I would like to express my respect for the club members, the chairmen of the political groups and you, ladies and gentlemen, my respect for your commitment, my respect for your commitment, which is always driven by the desire to advance our country in Austria. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will also be the next year of one that presents us with great challenges again. Today is, as it were, the last annual accounts that we can carry out in these premises in the House; next year we will be holding our meeting around this time in the Hofburg. We will leave this 130-year-old building for the first time in the history of the Republic in order to meet as the National Council and the Federal Council in another place, but we do so in the awareness that it is important not only to bring this architecturally important building into a structural state, which is important for society and democracy. In this sense, I wish you a nice Advent time now. I wish you a happy Christmas party in the circle of your family, and I wish you all a good, healthy and successful new year! [[General condolences.]] [[18:28]] This meeting is closed.
