ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10130	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm opening the 142. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. [[09:01:39]] Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2016/2017
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10155	According to Article 64(1) of Regulation (EU) No 646/2013. 1 Federal Constitutional Act of the Federal President's Office of the National Council has, by resolution, the functions of the Federal President of the National Council. ==References====External links== September 2016 at its ordinary 2016/2017 meeting of the XXV. The legislative period referred to in Article 28(1) shall be extended to the following years: 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. The official protocols of 138 and 139. Meeting of 7. In July 2016, as well as the unreaded parts of the official protocols of the 140th and 141th protocols. Meeting of 8. In July 2016, the management of the Parliament was unable to raise any objections. Deputies are reported as prevented by Krist, strike, sky builder, Angerer, Kickl, Lauch, Themessl, Dr. Pirklhuber, Mag. Loacker, Doppler, Dr. Winter. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10190	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Hans-Peter Doskozil is represented by the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Alois Stöger and the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin is represented by the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Foreign Sebastian Kurz. [[09:03:18]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10231	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10520	I also say that the tenth report of the Incompatibility Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[09:03:37]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10541	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question put at the beginning of the sitting by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on “Security and jobs instead of asylum-numbering tricks and Turkish endos, Mr Bundeskanzler!”. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 12 noon. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live by ORF 2 from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and by ORF III in full length. I'll interrupt the meeting until noon. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10580	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. I welcome the Federal Chancellor and the members of the Austrian Federal Government. [[12:01:35]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on “Security and jobs instead of asylum-numbering tricks and Turks, Mr Bundeskanzler!” (10143/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10622	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 10143/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, their reading by the writer is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10814	I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner to justify the question. Mr Klubobmann, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time is up to 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e10835	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We need action because of many, quite serious problems in Austria. I think that's out of the question. We also have an emergency situation in many areas, if you want to. This concerns the current trend in unemployment with a record unemployment rate of nearly 400 000 people in Austria, and we have a record rate of over 45 percent – as high as never before in the Second Republic – where we need to counter it. We have a dramatic tax burden in Austria. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Mr Walser.]] We have businesses which, unfortunately, also migrate because of the bad conditions of God. That too is reality. This concerns large businesses such as Coca Cola and others who migrate. We have businesses, industrial enterprises such as voestalpine, which, due to poor conditions, no longer invest in us in Austria; even if Mr Öllinger is pleased with this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] - No, they're investing elsewhere today. And this, unfortunately, is God's dramatic reality. And the model of Mr. Bundeskanzler's core is: new taxes. Machine tax, new taxes and other taxes – this is the model. Do you want to produce more unemployment? Do you want to sell more companies from Austria? We have no revenue problem, we have a problem with expenditure, and we must finally rethink in this country! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] These are completely wrong objectives which you give the best, Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern. If you are philosophizing from an Agenda 2025, please: On what Sankt-Nimmerleins day do you want to move that? We now need an economic and labour market offensive for 2017. Now it is necessary to reduce taxes, reduce the tax rate, create incentives for our location to return to attractive conditions so that businesses in Austria can settle in order to ensure that we have a development in order to create jobs and to counter unemployment. And that's not exactly what happens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For years now, we have been talking about the steps that are necessary to look at a state and administrative reform that is necessary to make the funding and subsidy jungle in Austria transparent: What double, triple promotions are there? Where can you optimize something right there? And, of course, a tax reduction is also necessary in order to create jobs so that the economic cycle can be stimulated. – Unfortunately, all of this is not in sight. One hears: It was thought about new taxes. – Well, what this is supposed to bring is put forward, except that the situation continues to grow; no trace of discharge. We also experience in other areas that hectic proposals for solutions that are contrary to the government groups, including the handling of the migration crisis, are served from the Chancellor to the Ministry of the Interior, to the Minister for Integration, to the Minister of Social Affairs and to the Club members of the Government. The fact is: We have long exceeded the financial, social, security and social burden limit in this area. The direct refugee costs for 2016 alone amount to around €2 billion. [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] And the costs for minimum security continue to explode. I say: We have warned of these developments a long time ago. And we made it clear a long time ago how to prevent these misdevelopments with a more responsible policy. You didn't listen to us. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Mr Walser.]] We have all remembered how last year Mrs. Merkel proclaimed an irresponsible welcome policy and found in this red and black federal government its helpers, who have been involved in it, who at that time also welcomed this irresponsible welcome policy well-known, with – yes! – supported legal breaks by not ultimately controlling the Schengen borders, not even being willing to secure their own borders, unlawfully allowing people into the country, without registration, without fingerprints, without documenting who came. There have been over a million people who have been admitted there, some of whom have also gone into illegality, many who have moved on to Germany, and many who have made an asylum application here last year. Yes, and we experience that, in the area of basic care, in the area of minimum security, the costs are of course dramatically exploded, and what the wave of migration also means for the health and education system and for the housing market, especially when it comes to family retirement. All of this is not even projectable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] The damage is there. The damage has been caused. One has believed that then anything will be learned from it, but one has to hold on today: To date, we do not have border security – neither a safeguarding of the EU's external borders nor a safeguarding of Austria's borders. To date, the European Union has not been able to ensure the implementation of its own rules. To date, the Austrian Federal Government has not been responsible for securing and closing the Austrian borders when it comes to illegal migration. It is not until a week ago that Foreign Minister just thundered, nor does he consider it necessary. He is so opposed to this safeguarding of the Austrian borders – interestingly. – These are often also contradictions that you can perceive and discover there. And yes, the token for this door-to-door policy must be paid by the Austrians in various areas: financial, security and social policy, even through radical Islamist developments, which are naturally absorbed with migration flows. The first arson of fundamentalist ideas and the formation of counter- and parallel societies are nothing new, which has been happening in Austria for a long time, but also across Europe, but this has been further fueled and fueled by this irresponsible development last year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All the parallel and counterpart societies have supported SPÖ and ÖVP for a time by having been approved by associations subsidized, which are supposed to act for integration, but in fact the very opposite is happening; there are, as it were, radical Islamist counterstructures. One has ignored all of this, and now one or the other seems to have raised a light, because at least in verbal public statements one can see that some politicians of the government are today quite different from those of a year ago or more. There were a lot of words and quotations. In 2016, for example, integration and foreign ministers Kurz said: ‘ Islam, of course, belongs to Austria.’ ==References== January 2015 said: “The average immigrant of today is more educated than the average Austrian.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] He said to the Burka ban: “With a Burka ban we will not solve integration in Austria.” Or: “As far as a Burka ban is concerned, I believe that we do not need artificial debates in Austria.” That was at Question Time at the National Council meeting on 10 October. July 2014, and that was Mr. Kurz's statement. ==References====External links== In November 2014, we also said that we had too little welcome culture. It is interesting that he is now at least verbally self-reliance, and, if you want to, hopefully also active repentance. We have nothing of a steam-plaudery and a verbal takeover of the liberties. [[Ironic cheerfulness and detonative acclaim by Mr Öllinger and Mr Walser]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need the implementation – and today we will make the test of implementation! Today we will see what the word is worth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I say: We need an immigration stop! We need a clear implementation of the basis that asylum always means protection on time! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need a clear political consequence from the words you hear here or there: no right to immigration, no border protection, and ultimately ensure that asylum is guaranteed on the respective continent. There are three things to say about this: First: I am pleased that what SPÖ and ÖVP are taking on in terms of freedom today or there. It shows that the liberal forging prevails, that's also good, but now it's important to show whether you mean it seriously – and that's exactly what matters. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say that, to this day, in many areas in the public there or there, positions of us are fortunately recognized as correct. But to this day I am missing the fact that, when it comes to necessary deportations, Mr Foreign Minister has not negotiated the withdrawal agreements with many countries until today. That's not the case. That's inactivity. Secondly, The government's motto appears to be: With half the funds half-way to half-targets. I do not see the consistent focus on the welfare of Austrian citizens on the part of the government in many areas. I also say quite consciously that, of course, as we have been demanding for years, we will have to think about ensuring social benefits primarily for citizens in order not to have a situation of a mixture of red-black minimum security ideas, as we experience them in part today, with the Greens of course being the biggest representatives in terms of finding life realities in Austria today, Mr. Ollinger, in which an average pensioner in Austria receives €940 per month. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Ah-run of the Abg. Parent]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] He has worked for a lifetime, created a lifetime, and then he experiences that there are people who come to us, get an asylum status, have not worked for a minute, have paid nothing into this system, and immediately experience a minimum security and all possible additional support mechanisms. Every person who has worked hard for decades and now receives 940 € pension is wondering: Is that really fair? – No, it’s not, and that’s exactly what we should take seriously and counter it. Thirdly, the following questions arise: What's the assignment to a government? What is she for? – Certainly not to hance from a media statement of intent to the next, with changing occupation from one dispute to the next; that is in the truest sense of the word foaming. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that, at last, concrete implementations are necessary and must become visible. Where all this leads, you can see it in a wide range of areas – security policy, for example. On the development of crime: On the basis of a request to Minister of the Interior Sobotka, we have now finally received the specific figures. Overall crime increased by 6.6 percent in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015. Last year it was from January to June 252,000 crimes; this year it was already 270,000 crimes; in Vienna alone it was more than 8,200 crimes. In Vienna, more than a third of all crimes take place as a whole. At the same time, however, there is still the situation in Vienna that the most low-reconnaissance ratio is there compared to the other federal states; only 37 percent of the offences can be resolved in Vienna. We have 133,000 suspects throughout Austria in the first half of the year, 53,100 of whom are suspects of crime, about 40 percent. In Vienna we have 39,887 suspects, of which even 20 are 642 foreign suspects, which are even more than half in Vienna. That already shows a lot. Of course, the massive increase in this area, as is seen in statistics, has something to do with illegal immigration. You can't just wipe it out like this and say: No, that's not true! – These are the realities, these are the numbers, and it is also clear that the executive has long since reached the limit with its resources, the limit of course has long been reached. At the beginning of September, executive officers for border protection were ordered again in Styria. In any case, this one is dizzy like Swiss cheese, so there are just a few officials there, who, of course, are missing elsewhere, who are breaking up the vulnerability when it comes to the core tasks. That's how you have to counter it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must counter it because it is at the expense of the executive and also at the expense of the security of the Austrian population. I therefore call for a genuine and sustainable expansion of the plots for the executive! In reality, we have too little in relation to the year 2000 of 5 000 executive planning posts across Austria. We had more than 5,000 executive planning posts in 2000 than today. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Keck.]] But something happened between them. In the meantime, enlargements of the schenkgen borders have been made, in the meantime there have been developments in the context of which an Easter enlargement has taken place – that is, all developments, in view of which one had to know, as crime will rise rather than fall. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] In other words, we are all invited to ensure 5 000 additional executive planning posts and their own border guard or border army beyond this personnel quota. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hagen: My request!]] Our borders are now dizzy like Swiss cheese, as the government does not want to do so because of the European Union's misguided policy at the external borders. The European Union is unable to secure external borders, to protect its own people through border protection. To date, we have ignored the liberal demands to protect and close the borders here and also to consistently shift illegal migrants back and forth. As has already been said, Foreign Minister Kurz has been totally sparse with the readmission agreements. And then we experience that the red and black government always notices with interesting divisions: the “tour with side parts” instead of the border fence or also the dirt of the guide value or the upper limit. - That's all pure shame! Where you really need to get stuck today: They noted last year that 2016 must no longer happen and that we will ensure a maximum of 37 500 for 2016. That was your promise. Now you say this 37 500, that's the number of asylum applications being dealt with. This is, as it were, the definition of the upper limit. What is the reality now in 2016? How many people are already really new – partly illegal and illegal – in Austria? Again, we know that the executive in Austria has taken up 130,000 illegals from January 2016 to August 2016 – 130,000 illegals that have been attacked so far in 2016! [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] According to official figures, it is also 11 000 who have been sent back by Germany to Germany in 2016 due to the illegal tow through Austria. There we are already at over 141 000 in 2016, which are of course in the supply – in the supply, that costs money! And then you go here and make the shame: But at the moment it is only 30 000 asylum applications that have been dealt with. – The rest is not dealt with, although these asylum applications have been filed, but they do not come to treatment, they are put on the side, so to speak, first and then, as it were, insert them into the statistics on numbers. That's not honest. And this shows that the state of emergency has been given a long time ago and gives you a deception maneuver here, with which the population is to be sold for stupid in the truest sense of the word. That's not fair! I therefore say: It needs a different handling! Of course, we also need a sharp action when it comes to the fact that there are exploiting crime developments in our country. There must also be no tolerance for criminal developments. We have, of course, also the situation in the area of uncontrolled immigration that many people, under false identities, including false nationalities, have also sought asylum, stating a wrong age. It should be recognized that it seems that not all the protection is looking for – and it would be interesting to know to what extent there are corresponding researches for Austria. In Germany it is known that many of those who are supposed to seek protection then make vacations in the country from which they have fled because they are allegedly persecuted there. Do you still need any evidence that this is not a protection seeker, it is a persecuted person within the meaning of the Geneva Convention, but a person who consciously migrates into a social system? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I miss the government's action to counter it; it should be clearly and clearly stated: No, if someone acts like that, he loses every right to asylum! And if someone becomes criminal and commits crimes – sexual harassment up to rapes, as we have experienced in Cologne, but also in Austria; in Salzburg, Innsbruck or at the Welser Volksfest and in other places – you also have to say clearly and clearly: Displaying such people on a free foot, that's actually scandalous! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is actually scandalous of how to deal with such developments, and I say that violence must not be a cavalry offence. Those who do not comply with the laws of our country shall immediately be brought back to their homeland and shall lose any right to asylum. We must not watch this and treat it in the way it is partly the case. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we must not become a country in which nothing has been done against these misdevelopments that have existed for some time: parallel and counterparts, documented by constitutional protection, for over ten years; Association structures and prayer houses, where people are recruited for jihadism, where radicalizations are also made and people radicalized, in order to go into the Holy War and to act as fighters in Syria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We know these mistakes of the past. Nothing has been done, they have not been closed or banned until today, or the persons in question have been rejected. [[Abg. Matznetter: Are those with the saber...?]] These are biotopes that have existed in Austria for some time and which have now been further fired. There are some parallel societies, structures and organizations that also want to advance the practice of Sharia, which has not lost anything in our society. In the end, we must also ensure that such radical Islamist associations cannot continue to spread among us and that no possible terrorist nests arise. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] That people who have fought in the Holy War as jihadists can return to Austria and allow them to live free among us without being imprisoned, that is also a consequence, that is to say quite openly.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11086	(Parliament agreed to the request for an early vote)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11101	Final sentence: It needs a Burka ban, which is a prison of fabric for women. It needs clear statements that the head covering of public schools, universities and public services has lost nothing, and a law for radical Islamism, analogous to National Socialism, needs to be banned. This is the new fascism, which is the threat of our time today, and we have to assume responsibility and stop it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11129	In response to the question, Mr Bundeskanzler Mag. Reported at the heart of the debate. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11150	Madam President. Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen in the visitor galleries! I agree with Mr Klubobmann Strache that the question of migration and immigration is one that moves our country like no other, and that many people in Austria are concerned about how it continues. [[Discouragement of the protests with the representatives of the FPÖ]] – But this is already exhausted, I must say to you, unfortunately, that will not surprise you, because I am convinced that it is our task to respond to these fears with an eye and a sense of reality and to actually solve the underlying problems. [[Abg. That's notable!]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Gamon]] [[call to the FPÖ]] This distinguishes us from the fact that we are interested in bringing forward this issue in the sense of good solutions for all Austrians, and not just as you are interested in keeping this debate underway and in instigating these fears over and over again. [[Abg. Neubauer: Then finally solve it!]] The reason for this urgent question – we both know that of course – has to do with the presidential election. After the bureaucratic debacle we have experienced in this context, the appeal is, of course, a little less strong, because it is also an election struggle, which is obviously to be used at least by a candidate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I would like to return to the discussion we held three months ago. We had a similar debate, you rightly mentioned some important points at the time, and I think today we can sum up that we have already made some progress in one point or another, that we have made concrete progress. I would like to add: What we do is guided by several principles, and one of these principles is that we have to limit immigration. This is a principle on which we confess, and we do so for very pragmatic reasons: We know that we are faced with an international geopolitical situation in which none of us can guarantee that the conflicts in the countries of origin from which people have fled from war, from distress, are actually over tomorrow; it does not look forward. We also know that we have good developments with regard to Turkey, we know that we have lavish developments as far as Italy is concerned, and in this context it is a duty for us to deal with the question of how we can prepare ourselves for further migration and flight movements. The principle of limiting immigration is that we want to limit immigration to an integrable level, because it is already so that our labour market faces challenges, our education system faces challenges; we know that the issue of housing raises questions, and we also know that the security question is to be solved, because – and I am giving you the right thing – the state has the responsibility to know who is moving in its territory. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] I would like to highlight one more point and ask you not to understand this as a minor point, because I consider this point to be important, namely the way in which we hold this debate. I am concerned that we avoid polarization, that we in Austria avoid splitting, that we come back to a common and as far as possible pull all at a red and white-red strand. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] You spoke of damage in connection with these flight movements earlier. I would like to add: No one can close his eyes to the problems we face, but if you are talking about damage, I would like to point out that in the end it is people who have fled from destruction, war and climate disasters. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[As a result, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Scherak.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I think we are all well advised here to pay great attention to our formulations. Let's see what happened in Austria last year: The challenge was immense, and Austria, like hardly a second country, was faced with the escape movements. If we look at this in the international comparison, then we have to say that this has been a situation in which many things have been successful and many things have developed in a good direction. I would therefore like to express my particular thanks to all those who have contributed to the integration of immigrants and refugees. I would like to thank the many aid organisations, the people's aid, the Caritas, the Red Cross, the workers' Samaritans – who are here called alternate for everyone – and I would like to thank the Austrian mayors who have done great things under difficult circumstances. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] But it is also clear that what we can do in Austria will only bring the desired results if we try to solve this in a European context. The solution to the issue of immigration and asylum is one that will only work effectively in the European context. I know that there are different positions within the European Union, not on all issues in this context, but if we want to be successful, we have to create the conditions at this level. You have rightly asked in your question what has actually been going on, which has happened in particular in the last three months, because we do not want to hold the same debate forever. The considerations that have been taken forward can be outlined in several points. The first most important point, from my point of view, is that we are regaining sovereignty across borders and that we are actively engaged in the question of how we can secure the external borders of the EU. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In June, there was an important agreement on the design of the European Border and Coast Guard, and we in Austria have started to make a massive commitment there. We decided on another package at the Council of Ministers earlier: 125 members of the Austrian Federal Government will support border protection at the Hungarian-Serbian border. We decided in the Council of Ministers last week to expand our quotas in the Mediterranean Operation SOPHIA and to help in the European concert in solidarity. I therefore think these two operations are so important because they show symbolically how we are doing in this policy: Yes, we must secure borders, but we know that people will, of course, come and stand in front of the gates of Europe. My understanding is that we cannot shake off our responsibility for the people who have fled there. This means – for example Operation SOPHIA – that we confess to take action against tugs, but at the same time also contribute so that people do not drown in the ocean. There is a similar discussion in Hungary. We know that in terms of human rights, Viktor Orbán is one – how should I say? – something different from us; this was the attempt to reship this topic elegantly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Frequent!]] But this is not supposed to be a criticism of the Hungarian measures, because of course we are those who benefit from it when it is possible to make safeguards at this border so that people do not continue to come to Austria. [[Abg. Street: Thanks to Orbán!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The principle behind it is very important to me, however, that we cannot look away, and that is why the mission to our federal army is to engage in humanitarian action. Thankfully, we have also won the workers' sama riders to ensure that the people who are stranding there have a roof over their heads. The second principle we are developing – we will have an intensive discussion about it this week, on Friday, in the circle of the Heads of Government – is the help on the ground. We know, of course, if we are trying to shape the migration policy on the Brenner or in Nickelsdorf, then that is too late and then the only limited chance of success will be. It is therefore important to us that we take care of refugees and preparations for escape as far as possible close to their countries of origin and at the same time take responsibility for the economic development of these regions in order to combat the causes of escape effectively. We will discuss a Marshall Plan for these regions next Friday. In the European context, the idea has been developed to take over €6 billion and to ensure that economic reconstruction can take place, particularly with regard to the private sector involvement of European companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] As a third point, we will discuss how we can continue to cooperate more intensively in the field of security. At this hour, our Director-General for Public Security in Slovenia is to discuss this issue of police cooperation with his Slovenian colleague, and we will be making a contribution this week to advance the project of European entry security in accordance with the American model, the ESTA system. We also know, however, that all these efforts, which are related to a certain amount of effort, are naturally not alone in our hands to bring solutions, and we know that this also needs his time. We have therefore dealt with the question of what we must do if these measures do not function efficiently enough if they do not come in time to secure the Austrian borders and in this context reach a limit on immigration. This is the debate on the special regulation that we are having in these days. Of course, in an open Europe, it is always only the second best solution to intensify border controls within the Schengen area, but we are just preparing this, and in the course of the review process we will have the opportunity to find a solution to technical implementation, legal implementation and the question of how the type of border security will take place in cooperation with our neighbours. In addition, we must not overlook the fact that we – and I believe this to be very important – have to intensify our efforts in the area of integration, because it is now the case that the people who have come to us will remain there for a longer-term perspective in our country, and we should all have the greatest interest in the fact that living together works. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This means that we have to take appropriate measures in the fields of education, labour market, German courses, cultural courses, value courses. And yes, it is, Mr. Klubobmann, you're right, it costs money. That costs a lot of money, but the question is whether we can save ourselves something if we don't invest this money. In our view, this is certainly not the case in the long term, because we have no interest in the fact that there are problems in Austria, as we know from Molenbeek or the Banlieues, where, in the end, there has been terror. I understand that it is difficult to discuss this issue with pensioners who have little money, and I know these discussions, because I too have faced many who have formulated their disappointments. The most important point, however, is that our principles and policies must ensure that these people are better and not worse, and this is also one of the reasons why the Social Minister has planned to increase the compensation allowance to € 1,000 in the context of the pension reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: 0.8 percent!]] I give you another point: It is true that we must accommodate people, that we must give them a future perspective, that we must invest that they must also integrate into our society, but this applies to those who comply with the rules. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Welsh]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Stefan.]] We do not have a great dissertation that those who fall out of the framework that do not comply with the rules of the game must apply the criminal law standard with full hardness. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Finally, I should like to comment on the points you raised in the first place: You have started with economic arguments, and I would like to point out one thing, because there seems to be a misunderstanding: Our idea is not to strengthen the economic location by increasing taxes. If you have listened attentively to me, you will recognize: Our principle is that we want to increase the competitiveness of the site, and that means that at the end of the day we have to reduce additional labour costs, that at the end of the day we need to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies, but also the purchasing power of people. [[Abg. Bösch: Let's hear it for 20 years!]] And that will not happen if we increase taxes unilaterally, nor is it a concept that we are pursuing. But where we may find ourselves, there are large fields of play to use there. You know the topic of international tax avoidance, you have followed the case of Apple. You will probably agree with me that it is absolutely right for the EU Commission to proceed with full consequence, because it is not acceptable that these large companies pay less taxes in Austria than any sausage. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]] I would like to address another point, because this has been clearly explained in your written request and I also largely share your opinions on this point, namely the question of the labour market. It is certainly our biggest challenge to combat unemployment and to give people a perspective, because nothing is more oppressive than having no employment. But if you look at the numbers in detail – and in so far as I can complete your analysis – you can see the following: Compared to the previous year, we have 32 000 jobs and jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Which jobs? 1-€-Jobs?]] This is a certain success which I believe may also be described as such. At the same time, 4,000 people are more unemployed – this is a problem I have agreed to. In detail, however, if you look at the reasons for this, you can see a very interesting picture, namely that unemployment among domestics has fallen over the past 12 months and that it has increased in other areas. Of course, rising unemployment also has to do with immigration, but to an even greater extent with structural change, and there are some good aspects to be mentioned here, for example the increased participation of women in the labour market. If you look at the figures from 2010 to 2015, you will see that 107 000 women have more come to the labour market and that the female employment rate has increased from 65 percent to 69 percent. All the difficulties we have in the labour market must be said: This is indeed a success of active labour market policy and women's policy. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Korun.]] I should like to point out another aspect, because this seems to me to be important and often lost in the discussion; it is again about the labour market: Why does unemployment rise? – Because the labour supply increases! I have outlined it in the example of women, but let us take a look at how pension reforms have worked in recent years: Compared to 2010, more than 250 000 people over 50 years of age were on the labour market in 2015. That is, what has been done in the pension reform has shown effect, was a step in the right direction, of course has consequences on the labour market, but it must not be forgotten in the analysis that these people are still on the labour market. Maybe just a little bit because I found this remarkable: In your explanatory statement, you have highlighted the question, and in particular you have stressed that the problem of rising unemployment has to do with the asylum seekers and the people who have come from Eastern Europe to Austria. – Only the chronical completeness for the sake of: The largest group of foreigners active in the Austrian labour market is still our German colleagues. I would like to address one point because this too is always lost and we should not have the same debates over and over again: You rightly asked the question: What's going on? What's going on now? . We took a few steps in the first months of joint government cooperation with the EIA, which I was responsible for, which will develop its impact. One was the implementation of the founding package – the start-up story – a significant initiative. We want to make Austria an important founding country, have reliefs for workers, have created reliefs for entrepreneurs, have created reliefs for investors. This was a long-standing project by Harald Mahrer and Lisa Hakel, which together we have led to a success. We have decided all day schools – this is also important because they are, of course, investments in infrastructure. These are public investments that will make themselves felt on the labour market. The bank levy will also have an effect because it will make banks more able to build up equity and make lending easier. Finally, we have also decided on compulsory training up to 18 years, which will help to improve the qualifications of young people for the labour market. I wanted to try to scatter the image of large-scale inactivity with these short additions. Of course there is much more, but I'm saving you the details now. What do we plan to do in autumn? – This too is not a great surprise, even there we are, I believe, united in this house. We need to create investment incentives for companies, we need to make business activities easier – these are the major work priorities that have been set with the vice-channer – but we also need to strengthen purchasing power. We want wage increases in the future to be actually felt in the wallets of workers and not to be eaten away by the cold progression. You will be given the relevant laws by us here in the autumn. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Without wanting to draw the answer to the urgent question in epic length, I will now allow myself to answer your questions in detail. I can come to questions 1, 2, 3 and 11: The Federal Government, by means of a regulation pursuant to § 36 asylum law, notes that the maintenance of public order and the protection of internal security are at risk. The draft regulation is currently under review, and all the Federal Ministries have participated in it. It is not only for security police reasons that a threat to public policy and internal security should be accepted, that is to say, consideration, but also when essential public services are affected in their functioning. This is particularly about housing, the school system and the aspects of social security. There is also a forecasting decision to be taken, which is the basis for the draft regulation, which is now under review. In January 2016, the Federal Government, together with the federal states, announced a political agreement on the need to limit the number of asylum applications in Austria. It was essentially agreed that over the next five years a total of 1.5 percent of the Austrian population of asylum seekers will be included. This results in the known number of 37 500 applications registered for the asylum procedure for 2016. Questions 4 to 10: The politically defined number of 37 500 asylum applications covers only persons who are admitted to the asylum procedure in Austria, according to the precise definition. Family members shall be taken into account in so far as they have submitted an application for asylum. Not included are Dublin cases, since there is no jurisdiction here in Austria. Overall, it is only about pending procedures. I should like to draw attention to the written report of the Federal Minister for the Interior, which is published each month within the Council of Ministers; today there are the current figures. Questions 12 and 13: As of June 2016, 85,500 people were in basic care. Based on the current development, according to the BMI, for the calendar year 2016 high, around 96 000 people can be expected in the basic supply. Questions 14 to 17: The impact of the migration crisis on the general government budget balance – you have already quoted the figures – on the federal government, countries and municipalities, according to the stability programme of the BMF, amounts to €758 million in 2015 and in 2016 to the €2 billion quoted in 2016. It also includes costs for countries and municipalities, such as the country's share of basic supply and minimum security. A detailed breakdown of costs Please refer to the explanations of the special regulation sent by the Ministry of the Interior! It also states that in the health sector, about €7.5 million is for the Federal Government for the financing of health insurance contributions. In addition, integration funds are provided for the education sector. In 2016, a total of € 63.75 million, with €80 million in 2017 will be financed by teachers, further educational and other support staff, transition stages and adult education measures. On the question 18: The question falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. As stated in the Explanatory Notes to the Special Regulation, in 2015 there were 92 800 suspects of crime with the status of aliens, 14,460, i.e. about 15 percent, were asylum seekers. The crimes included thefts, body injuries, and addiction offences. In question 19, the following is to be noted: An agreement under Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act and the BVG on the accommodation and distribution of asylum seekers provides an adequate basis for the distribution in Austria. Question 20: The EU needs safe external borders; I mentioned this. Watched external borders are a central prerequisite for reducing refugee numbers. Therefore, the June agreement on the European Border and Coast Guard is an important step, which I naturally welcome and which must be implemented quickly. This will provide faster and more efficient support for external border security for those Member States that are particularly affected by migration. Currently Austria with 39 people is participating in Frontex for the protection of EU borders, the colleagues in Bulgaria, Hungary, Greece and Macedonia are stationed. Austria also supports Hungary in protecting the EU's external border – I have formulated it in detail before – and our commitment in the field of Operation SOPHIA exists. On question 21: The relationship with Turkey is currently somewhat tense, as the positions clearly formulated by the Austrian side on the EU's accession negotiations with Turkey in Ankara have met with the known criticism. We have no doubt that Turkey is an important partner of the EU and that we want to institutionally safeguard the relationship between the Union and Turkey beyond the existing customs union, for example in the areas of migration and security. This is important for the questions we discussed earlier, but we do not believe that accession to the European Union should be included. [[Abg. Strache: But ÖVP-Hahn wants to open further membership chapter!]] On questions 22 and 26: I explained the Austrian position in numerous bilateral discussions and had several opportunities to do so with the Heads of State or Government. I will also do this in Bratislava at the informal summit of the 27 Heads of State or Government, but I assume that it would be rather a surprise to find a majority for this issue there. On the question 23: The Austrian security authorities are constantly monitoring the security situation and have sufficient legal handling to avoid or combat threats to public security, according to the Federal Ministry of the Interior. Furthermore, the competent Austrian authorities are in continuous dialogue at local, regional and national level with civil society organisations in order to reduce possible tensions. I can answer your question 24 as follows: The Citizenship Act, in particular §§ 27 and 28, regulates the issue of the loss of Austrian citizenship in the event of the acquisition of foreign citizenship. Where authorities are alerted to a situation to which the Citizenship Act applies, they shall be required to initiate appropriate detection procedures. On question 25, to the Burkaverbot: This is the subject of ongoing discussions within the Federal Government. On the question 27: The EU instrument for pre-accession assistance is based on an EU regulation, i.e. a common legislation of the Council and the European Parliament, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in charge of it. On questions 28 and 29: The policy talks on minimum security should be concluded as soon as possible. A government template is only possible after the consent of the countries, since they are legally responsible for social assistance and will be parties to the corresponding agreement on the reorganisation of minimum security. Of course, the Federal Government is of the utmost interest to conclude the agreement as soon as possible, as this would lead to significant progress, particularly in the areas of reintegration into the labour market, sanctions and statistics. The contents of the new Article 15a Agreement will be presented together with the countries and naturally with the government partner after the conclusion of the talks. Questions 30 and 31: Differentiation in the case of minimum security between domestic and foreign nationals is only possible with regard to eligible persons under EU law. Basic services need to be defined, which in turn requires a change in the legal basis. On question 32: In the Federal Government, there is consensus that wage and social dumping must be done with all power. Therefore, the wage and social dumping law has been substantially tightened. Furthermore, we are committed at European level to reforming the Entrepreneurship Directive in order to protect domestic workers as well as our SMEs. On questions 33 and 34: The increase in unemployment is mainly due to the continuing international economic growth. I did this in detail at the beginning of my statement. Perhaps very briefly on the resources for the common labour market policy: These have been increased by 2020. In total, €196 million is also targeted at combating unemployment. The tax reform also makes a significant contribution to economic recovery. We all saw the figures of the WIFO last night. With all the difficulties in the international environment, there is some encouraging sign. On question 35: In the annual average 2015, a little more than a quarter of the people who had been unemployed at the AMS and who had been trained had non-Austrian citizenship. The proportion of persons entitled to asylum and eligible for protection in the unemployed in 2015 amounted to around 4 percent. And finally to question 36: The Federal Government has already decided in the past on a number of measures to stabilise the labour market, particularly on the proposal of the Federal Minister for Labour. Not least because of this, despite the difficult environment I have tried to outline, employment is currently increasing. So I hope to have answered your questions exhaustively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11500	We are going into the debate. I would draw all the speakers' attention to the fact that the speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. [[Abg. Neubauer: That was different with the previous speaker!]] Mr Dr. Rosenkranz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11532	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall on the visitor gallery and in front of the TV screens! The Federal Chancellor has submitted an incoming statement and has also answered the questions we have asked. He's also listed them. He said it was necessary to act with an eye and a sense of reality. As a matter of fact, it starts with the slight doubt that the sense of reality in view of the figures is actually as well equipped as it is necessary to deal properly with these challenges, which have also been stated in the statement of reasons for our request. If it is assumed here that this urgent request will be made at this special meeting for election-tactic maneuvers, I will reply: Mr Bundeskanzler, we liberals need a special meeting on this subject and problem almost every day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you hope that the questions have been answered exhaustively, I say: We are in no way exhausted when it comes to treating the interests of the Austrians who come to speak on these issues accordingly, also demanding comments and, above all, calling for implementation, namely the actions which we still lack in this Federal Government and also in what you have verbally carried out here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I come to the examples: They say there are things that are not in our hands. – You think these are things that are not in Austrian hands, such as the security of Schengen external borders and others. If one realizes that what the European regulatory framework, which the EU rules produce, is not enough, then we are in a situation where we have to take the issue ourselves. Therefore, it is useless to turn to others, to wait, to hope, to fear, to discuss – no, the actions are now to be demanded and also to put. This is particularly true of the safeguarding of the Austrian border. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They themselves have said that it must be the State's interest to know who is staying in their own state. – This principle has been trampled on by this federal government in what happened last year. This principle was de facto not available. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] The good thing about this is that we have received a few figures from the Minister of the Interior in the last few days. We have heard that in Austria, in the first half of 2016, 130 000 people who are illegally residing here were picked up. And so that there isn't again the call from the Greens: No human is illegal! – Of course not, every human being is a human being with his inborn rights. But there are even murderers with us. Also, a murderer is not illegal, he is also a person with his rights, but he has behaved unlawfully. This is the illegal we mean here. These are people who have just joined Austria against our laws and are illegal here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What do we see on the opposite side? – Around 5 000 outland settlements, of which 900 in so-called Dublin cases. 130,000 compared to 5,000 – there is no longer any sense of sight and reality with God! These are already serious problems and crises, which you cannot simply change with permanent rupture. You said we were facing challenges. – Mr Bundeskanzler, we are in the middle of the challenges. I just want to list the topics that you have edited, once again alphabetically – because you can't evaluate what's more important of them –: Labour market, education, safety and social security. Let us start with security standards, Federal Chancellor! There's also a problem when you look at it: What do you say about the fact that there are more than 50 percent of the 722 people in prison in the justice centre – and you know in itself exactly, in stone, people who have not committed the lighter crimes – are members of more than 50 percent 48 nations, with Austria not included? Are those of which you say, well, these are the ones that are now with us for a long time now, since we must now take integration measures? - No! Whoever is illegal in this country has to leave this country as soon as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Asylum means protection on time. Asylum does not mean that we are pushing integration to the fore, but that we must try to ensure that, if the situation in their home countries improves, these people leave Austria again. This has to be our incentive, because otherwise the problems are simply piled up with us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you say the population won't be able to do this, I say: The population knows this, because now every Austrian, every Austrian has her or his example, in view of where the uncontrolled mass immigration leads to Austria, up to the women... – Yes, Mrs. Mückstein, you laugh, but we do not find it laughing that women have been sexually harassed at the Welser Volksfestival! [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Mückstein.]] [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Fekter.]] Mrs Mückstein, even if you are tearing up your eyes now, we do not find this laughing, and neither do these women find it laughing that even the integration measures for these people are being supported with their tax money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] Mrs Brunner, it was quite funny at the beginning of the debate: Hardly Klubobmann had started talking, the calls from the greens were already there. I can only tell you one thing because the election has already been addressed... – What are we doing? – Well, “artificialally heat up the debate”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mückstein.]] [[Abg. Mückstein: Artificially heat up the debate!]] [[Embarrassed opposition at the FPÖ.]] Well, I'm telling you something else, I took it with me, because I knew sometime the greens were coming. I quote from 2010 – also your smiles, enchant us! –: [[Renewal cheerfulness of the abg. Mückstein]] The SPÖ is trying to cheat on election cards. There are countless opportunities for fraud. The SPÖ takes votes from the Turkish community with gifts of money for the Islamic and Turkish clubs and with the electoral card fraud in the dementia. We Greens are going to the prosecutor. – You say what we criticize liberals, but hardly are you in the government position, hardly believe you can promise any advantage of anything, are all your announcements there. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Dear Green, keep yourself Your independence like your Federal Presidency candidate! We are on a far too serious subject than that we could actually take your things seriously here: We take the harassed women seriously in Wels. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] – It costs a smile – this is your access. Mr Bundeskanzler, the Green Group is too small to create more excitement. Mr. Federal Chancellor, this is about your government work. I would therefore like to conclude by saying: You've announced a lot of things – for example, emergency regulations that you've written everything into – you're finally actually putting your announced actions into practice! Don't break up for long! Not for long what may come to you from the ÖVP partner, what has been looked off from the FPÖ, but do it! This does not mean that the FPÖ has an advantage. They always say: The FPÖ only wins as a protest party!, and there are only two ways to prevent the rise of the FPÖ: Either as a government implement the FPÖ requirements so that there is no longer any problems at all, or you leave the FPÖ to the government so that it shows what it can do!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11673	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11696	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners and listeners! In today's urgent request of the FPÖ, which has brought a long text with many interesting remarks, I particularly liked it – because it is also true; and if the FPÖ writes something true, then one should also quote it –: “Absolutely, how the Social Ministry behaves under the Upper Austrian Trade Union Apparathik” – you can’t keep writing functional! – ‘Stäger zus Zentrale [...] has developed’. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] This is indeed a praise for the work of the Social Minister, because it shows that our Social Minister is inflexible in matters of the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if you think about it a little bit fluffy, it only shows: This is a tough dog when it comes to effectively implementing labour market standards, jobs and employment policies in Austria! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Record unemployment!]] Let us stick to the topic of labour market and labour market offensive, in which economic situation is in Europe, and in the economic situation in which Austria is concerned, the creation of jobs is the most important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] We also know that our labour market is difficult: We have extremely high unemployment, but at the same time we also have the highest employment in Austria. In other words, it is not only a question of training and labour market policy within the meaning of AMS measures, but also of what we urgently need is investment in the economy, investment that also creates employment. When it comes to investment, it is always about people's incomes. It's not just about jobs, it's about income. Tax relief, as we have done, is an important point. Increase the minimum wage by means of trade union bargaining skills is the other point, and high wage levels which Austrian trade union representatives and works councils fight each year in tough negotiations for workers are another important point. That is why it is all the more important that this money also arrives in the exchange of workers, because the trade union finally negotiated it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because Mr Klubobmann has also spoken here about the Voest – you have to deal with facts from time to time, and that is also reasonable to you; They talked about it earlier –: In recent years, the voestalpine Group has invested €2 billion in Austria. He has invested € 2 billion in the Austrian site! Yes, voestalpine has also invested abroad, for example in Corpus Christi, but why? – Because it needs to be produced as a supplier for the car industry there. However, there are also €300 million of investment in the coming years, at the Böhler site in Styria. This year alone, the Voest has hired 111 apprentices at the Linz site. In the case of the Voest, to want to show that there is something bad in Austria's policy, is therefore something of the wrong, because the Voest is in every respect a show company: She invests in Austria, she invests in jobs, she takes up apprentices and forms them at the location Austria on good terms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They have also talked about increasing crime and these issues. In addition: Yes, we have a problem, especially in agglomerations. Why? – Because since the time of Schwarz-Blau there has still been an under-supply with police officers, with planning stations for the urban agglomerations. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I would rather say that you have an oversupply...!]] We need more investment in equipment that they can use in the future – and investment in radio strips, so that they can also be mobile in the agglomerations – in the future. I'll give you the right to do this. But you have also referred to the question of increasing crime that has been affecting us in the last few days, namely: Why is it that a member of the FPÖ is being determined, namely, against Mr Schellenbacher? That was in all the newspapers. This is the question of crime you should look at in your club sessions, because it is always FPOs who are involved in corruption cases, regardless of whether they are former or present. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and Greens]] I would like to say something about the international crises – the question of the Middle East, Syria and the civil war and the growth of the Islamic State –: We need help on the spot, and Austria needs to do more. We need solutions at the diplomatic level for the international conflict. We need Turkey as a partner. However, we will never look away if Turkey is developing from human rights standards, as we expect them to be. What we have seen in recent months is not only critical of the human rights situation, but also critical of stability in the region. It is therefore also necessary to criticise the Turkish government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, when we talk about real solutions, it is necessary to protect the EU's external border, and that's exactly where we use assistance today in the Council of Ministers or the Austrian Federal Army's assistance to the Hungarian-Serbian border, that is, at the EU's external border, has been decided. This is also a security policy that comes to an end – namely, arriving in the sense that there is more security. In conclusion, I come to two points in which the Freedom Party and colleague Strache, along with many other issues, are so massively different from us Social Democrats. One thing is: The FPÖ screams, on every occasion is crying out loud, but – and this is the difference – we work on the solutions and implement the solutions, because that is what ultimately brings the answer to people’s concerns. [[Abg. New builder: He was good!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The second difference is: Whenever solutions are developed and presented – I only say: Labour market packages, I'm just saying: Tax reduction, I'm just saying: Fighting tax fraud and all these things, requiring training and training for young people – whenever solutions are on the table, FPÖ has always voted against! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] And this is so significant: They shout out loud and vote against everything! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Mass unemployment!]] This is the kind of politics that people have enough up to the top.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11859	Next, Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e11882	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about “safety and jobs instead of asylum-tricks and Turkish endos” within the framework of today’s urgent ones, of course, we must say that every point for ourselves is an issue that could be dealt with for a long time. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: There we need several sessions!]] I would like to begin with the accusation of the asylum-numbering trickery which you did not make to the Federal Chancellor, but to the Ministry of the Interior, which we led. Here you refer to your parliamentary question and ask the question: How many people were taken up in the months of January to June 2016? Then you count that together and say that's 130 000, and then you say that's really unheard of. That's right. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's right!]] But the second question is missing: How many of them stayed with us? – By the end of June, 25 691 of those you call here have submitted an asylum application. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You don't know that, that's the problem!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Exactly!]] That's the number trick I blame you for. I would have liked to ask this question to the first speaker, Mr Klubobmann, but he is voracious about dust and then he is there. It would be nice if he would also put himself in the discourse, ladies and gentlemen! [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: He's gone again!]] And a second: You say we're not doing anything about this. It is certainly true that last year a migration movement has taken place, which is looking for the same. What happened here was not primarily Austria's fault, I would also like to say in all clarity. In fact, the main fault was that the Schengen external border was not sufficiently protected, because, ladies and gentlemen, the people who came to us and went through for the most part came from Schengen countries. As you know, there are no border controls at the borders within the Schengen area. It is clear that this immigration, which has taken place there, is not, of course, one that is permanent with all its systems. That is why the Federal Government has also agreed to reach a ceiling, and the corresponding regulation is now being negotiated to implement this ceiling. The upper limit is 37 500. – This is due to the number already mentioned with the 1.5 percent. We will do everything we can to ensure that this ceiling is respected. One must have the relevant regulation in the case of cases in the drawer, ladies and gentlemen, that is necessary, that is important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There you can't say: We'll wait, maybe nothing will happen anyway. – I think we agree. Then something on the question of migration, which I think is particularly important – our social spokesman, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Social Minister have had very constructive discussions in recent days: In the case of demand-oriented minimum security, border crossing is necessary. I understand that when people complain and excite that there is income under certain cumulation situations where working people or pensioners do not come. I understand this trouble, and that's why we have to change it. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We have to pull in this cover, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is necessary because otherwise we cannot maintain the social balance in our country. Then, in reality, we are already on the labour market and on the proposals to be found in the asylum package to be discussed, namely, that we, of course, also need to stop making a contribution to people who come to us – keyword 1-€ jobs. If a person relates to minimum insurance, he should also provide his or her employment to a certain extent. I am thinking of the value and legal system: If someone does not stick to it, there must be appropriate sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen, otherwise integration will not work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor – I appreciate You are very, very well - I have been following your statements today. You said you didn't want a tax increase. We'll take you by the word. I am pleased about this statement. [[Abg. Neubauer: But you haven't promised!]] You have said that you want to reduce wage costs – we can also talk about it – and They want to strengthen competitiveness. This has been a little different in recent days, I would like to say, also in connection with the question of the issue of heresy policy. I think it's not a good way for our country to get back into debt making. I don't think it's extra fair either, because: Who will eventually pay the debt? – The debt is paid by the next generations. This is a shift in problems which I do not think we should be talking about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And one last thing: I am pleased that Mr Klubobmann Schieder has spoken very clearly about what large companies are investing here in Austria. [[Abg. Pendl: Great!]] That's great. I can also report this from my constituency. We really have great technical companies in the field of car delivery, but of course there are fewer people in these production halls today than there were 20, 30, 40 years ago. Nevertheless, there is a wealth of highly specialized technical jobs around these companies, which have been newly created. All that is being done today under the The term "Industrie 4.0" understands what is so to speak the interaction of supply, processing and the like, thanks to God today also happens through automation, and thus Austria is still attractive as an industrial location. I can only warn against endangering the attractiveness of our industrial site through additional tax burdens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12038	Next speaker: Clubwoman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12059	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I believe that at the latest after the second speech by the Liberal Group, after the speech of Mr Rosenkranz, it has become clear once again that the purpose of this special meeting was to provide an election support in the current presidential election campaign and to misuse the issue of asylum and migration again in order to make elections here. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Bravo, Hofer!]] They have admitted this very clearly themselves. You've had something you obviously wanted to read, and you've only been waiting for some key word to misuse this to talk about alleged election fraud. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: There you can see how predictable you are!]] I would also like to lose a sentence on the style, since this is very relevant: So that's a style that you don't actually get along with constructively-parliamentary, which is manipulative. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What is “manipulative”? You're not allowed to quote any more?]] This only has the meaning of destroying the debate and putting on something that is an injunction. They have spoken about election fraud again, and they are quite aware that there has been a very explicit finding by the Constitutional Court, namely that in all these surveys there has been no single reference – and there has never been a more comprehensive consultation procedure on the part of the Constitutional Court – to a manipulated or falsely assigned vote. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The Greens have that! Mr Margulies! I'm just quoting Mr. Margulies!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Don't be so sad!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He didn't check it at all!]] It is already relevant to clarify this once again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The purpose of this special meeting is thus obvious. However, I do not want to go into the agenda as it is a very serious situation for the Republic of Austria as a whole – after this really bad failure in the Ministry of the Interior – to postpone a presidential election de facto for the first time. We – SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS – will use this special meeting together to reorganise this situation, as these technical panels simply had to lead to a shift. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Thank you, FPÖ, for doing this special meeting!]] That wouldn't have been necessary. It is extremely unfortunate that whenever it comes to finding solutions, you are not willing to cooperate in any form, but then simply withdraw and wait for the others to do the work. But that's a classic style of yours. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to appeal again to the Austrian population [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] I can absolutely understand that many are very, very angry and that many are also incomprehensib, that it is possible that such a failure of authority will occur. I would nevertheless like to call on you to continue to participate in these elections. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But please go to the constituency, sure is!]] The power of our democracy is derived from the participation of the Austrian population in elections in particular. That's why I still ask – we all are very angry about this pan, including me personally – to make use of the right to vote. That is the basis of our democracy and that is extremely relevant. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] And I would also like to appeal once again to the Members of the Freedom Party to really drop any conspiracy theories. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It hurts democracy, it's destabilising. There's no magic glues here and nothing at all. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I rarely heard such a crazy idea!]] I really think this is harmful. Please come back to a democratic approach to such questions! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutors Belakovich-Jenewein, Neubauer and Walter Rosenkranz.]] Every Austrian voice must have its validity. And finally, it is also a question of how we can regain our reputation abroad. Unfortunately, for me – or for us – these very serious questions of dealing with international crises, the very relevant questions, how we assess the situation in Turkey, how we estimate the situation in Italy and in Greece, what opportunities there are for improvement in aid on the ground, what our contributions are, in particular, to improve the situation of the enclosed city of Aleppo in any form and to end all the misery of the people and the children there, how the European Union as a whole deals with the crises surrounding our borders, so that all these very relevant questions – and there can be very different approaches – are reduced by you exclusively to the question of fences and national borders, and that the questions of labour market, integration, school and education are also considered exclusively with a single answer, namely: We simply leave all foreigners away, we de facto deport all refugees abroad, and that solves all the problems! This is a very, very small access, and that will in no way do justice to the problems we have in these areas – and we had them before the refugee crisis. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The small party has big solutions, the big party has small solutions!]] However, I would also like to say a few critical words to the Austrian Federal Government: Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said a lot of things that I can fully support, but what is actually happening here is that you are currently working on an emergency regulation that de facto requires fiction, we have an emergency in the health system, we have an emergency on the labour market, we have an emergency in the education system in order to remove Austrian laws, European laws, international treaties. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] What really made me a little sad is that the 14 000 refugee children in the Austrian schools – many of them are no longer extraordinary students after a year, many of them do extraordinary things within a few months, integrate, learn wonderfully and in a very quick way German, are also integrated into the classes – for the reasons of your emergency regulation to speak of an emergency in schools. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I think that's really pathetic. So if you want to discuss the emergency situation here, you can do it, but please really leave the schoolchildren and the refugee children out of the game! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, the experts in Vienna have the greatest pressure and the biggest challenge. Sandra Frauenberger says that there can be no emergency. We support these politicians, teachers, these families, even the volunteers who work there, but we do not abuse them for the emergency in school! [[call to the FPÖ.]] This has quite different causes, and that has been the case before, and we are waiting very urgently for the reforms of your Minister for Education. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the labour market: Of course, we have also observed that there is now the understanding that the labour market service needs more resources. That's good, we've been waiting a long time. Since the beginning of the year, we have been pointing out that more funds are needed. We also repeatedly point out that a number of other measures could still significantly detract the situation. This includes, first and foremost, a reasonable tax reform. We have been discussing this for a decade now, in order to reduce the burden in particular of work in the form of an intelligent tax reform, which on the one hand is also a more resource-efficient tax reform and includes climate problems, and thus, in fact, to reduce the cost of working in Austria while at the same time contributing to climate protection and reducing environmental consumption. Forestry is still a subject for which we have been waiting for a very long time. Better start-up opportunities for one-person companies, for micro-enterprises, to reduce bureaucracy, but also the serious discussion of the question of working time are not all new topics. At the beginning of the new Federal Government we said: Okay, a certain time is certainly fair, but now I've become a little impatient. From the educational reform – we now hear that perhaps only at Christmas the autonomy package comes – to these questions and also to the European level, I think, would be a little more speedy. Then one last word: So if something is really uncertain for the Austrian labour market, for the Austrian economy, for the Austrian companies, it brings to a great deal of thought whether the Austrian location still wants to be interesting in the future, then it is players with the fire, namely, players about the questions about the withdrawal from the euro or the withdrawal of Austria from the European Union. [[We welcome the Greens as well as the Schellhorn and Strolz Members.]] This is certainly the most dangerous speculation that companies in Austria are massively uncertain. I am thinking of the 20 000 Austrians who work in the UK; I do not know what will happen to them. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I am thinking of the more than 400 000 Austrians who are employed in other European countries, who are also constituencies. And with that I finish: Just these Austrians wanted you with your very simple proposal: We just don't let the letter voters choose! – your candidate, Mr Hofer, has so said – deprived of the right to vote, and I think that is a very worrying understanding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12332	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12354	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Freedom Party, which you have invited to the special session today! They use the usual text blocks for this special session as always. But this time a new topic, namely not only trickery with the asylum figures et cetera, but also jobs – and I am delighted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I think it is important that we devote ourselves to the issue of jobs. This is how I want to focus on this issue, because I believe that it is completely underexposed in the debates that this Republic is currently holding, all of which have their rights. We must not, of course, let ourselves be hypnotized by elections that go endlessly in length, because they do not hold the elections. Nor should we be taken hostage by the refugee theme, which has, of course, long become an integration topic, and I share with many the concern that too little is happening in the integration area, Mr Bundeskanzler. I believe that we need more planned action. That is not enough, and, among other things, it is not enough for the Minister for Integration to do; it must be a effort by the German Government as a whole. That is why, since I believe it would be useful to propose once again – as we proposed last year for the accommodation of refugees, because it did not reach out to what came from the government, and the government representative then got the subject well under control – to install a government representative for integration so that we can deal with the matter in a planned way and really do it as a Community action in the government. Return to the workplace theme: This is especially important to me because we have the highest unemployment that this Republic has seen since the Second World War. Of course, we are also winning new jobs, but not at the pace we need, so that unemployment does not continue to rise. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say that you are proud of it, I would say: We cannot be proud of this because we are moving against the European trend. With Austria there are only four other countries in the European Union, i.e. five countries of 28 who have rising unemployment, and Austria is in the middle of it. That is to say, we have arrived in the final group of the European Union, we are not only in terms of growth in the final group, but also in the area of rising unemployment, and these are communication vessels. Then I take a look back at the FPÖ: So to throw up the topic is one – to present solutions would be the other. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We do!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:... not our task!]] You always have one subject. Whether health policy, education policy, labour market policy, in the third sentence, you are always with the refugees. And yes, we have challenges there, but no, that's not the Republic's biggest challenge. We have to do this, we have to organize it, but of course we also have very different construction sites, which would be equally large without refugees – for example on the labour market. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] I think it's worth looking at the blue recipes. They say: We should abolish the free movement of workers in the EU! They say: We should not sign such things as free trade agreements! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Sectoral! Sectoral!]] – Well, sectoral: They want to pick up raisins, that's not going to happen in a solidarity community. Mr Rosenkranz, if you want to restrict the free movement of workers – yes, you can contradict it afterwards, now I am in favour, the game in Parliament – then you must say to the hundreds of thousands of Austrian citizens who employ those 50,000 old-age caregivers in the 24-hour care service: [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, Mr Walter Rosenkranz and Mr Strache]] We'll turn off the rooster too! It's not going to happen that we choose it somewhere else and turn it around. We are either in a solidarity community or not, and these 50,000 to 60 000 old-age caregivers, mainly from Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia, and above all women, we welcome with open arms, and elsewhere you want to turn. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Neubauer.]] It's a solidarity. Austria has benefited like no other country. [[New call to the FPÖ.]] Independent experts predict that Austria has benefited from jobs since accession to the EU: 245,000 jobs. You want to turn it off, you want to get out of the EU. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Now you finally stop!]] You want to get out of the EU, and when it gets hot, dear FPÖ, you say: Ah, we didn't mean that! – This I-I-I-way, I-b-da, I-b-way, that’s in the DNA of the liberals, but that’s a problem for this country. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] That is a problem for this country! – Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, I believe what I am saying here, because I – and please take note of this benevolently! – take the liberals seriously. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you believe your nonsense itself?- Oh, my God!]] And you, H.-C. ==References== January 2016, a resolution tabled: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council (...) a request concerning the holding of a popular survey on the withdrawal of Austria from the EU for decision-making.’ [[Abg. Yeah, and what?- Oh, my God!]] Yes, do you want to sell us for stupid? – Of course you play with the Öxit. That's exactly how Cameron started, and at the end was the exit, the Brexit then at the doorstep. In the beginning, they have only shed light on the political little money, and the price is now paid by the British citizens. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] Exactly the same responsibility is on your way, and I don't think that's okay, that's not sustainable, not in the sense of the next generation and would still harm our generation. That would harm this country. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, where I am right for the liberals, it is that this federal government has no pressure on economic policy and does not deliver anything. Mr. Federal Chancellor, what do we have to do? – Of course, we would have to get into pay-side reductions. For example, we should reduce the cost of the business chamber, where you can build pressure. That's not alone. Your area, that's clear to me, but we could delete the KU2, give back 365 million € to the company. I know that the Chamber of Commerce already calculates internally, because it has a bad conscience, and I know that the Chamber of Labour is already sweating because of the questions raised by Mr Loacker, because it is constantly increasing the forced contributions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Forced contributions have been increased by 40 percent over the last ten years, while people are confronted with declining or stagnating real wages. You have to go in there. Where else do you need to go? – Please enter the business order! I know, Federal Chancellor, you want to. The Groteske is – and now stop, dear entrepreneurs who are watching today! – that the ÖVP inhibits, comprehensively. [[Abg. Fekter: Well, they don't have time!]] [[Call at the FPÖ: They turned off 5 minutes ago!]] The Chamber of Commerce is slowing down the ÖVP and it must not go into a reform of the trade regulations. They don't want a bald. We have to put a cheese bell over the chamber state and make it an open-air museum. This is not about growth and jobs, it is not going to happen, that is, from the armchairs and into reforms! Working time models: We're telling people today: If you're gonna have another hour after 10 hours, you're an employee and an employer in the criminal! – It's sick because it's just different in reality. For example, if today a mother says: Today I do eleven or twelve hours, for which I go tomorrow with my child to Doctor or accompany it to school! This is not allowed because the social partners in this House are not allowed to do so. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Neubauer: This is not the case with the Haselsteiner!]] That's why I'm saying: ÖVP, SPÖ, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you must emancipate from these social partners who have great merits but who are only a brake block today! This has already been tried by a chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, but all these efforts have passed in the sand, and therefore it needs new forces, otherwise the change will not come into the world. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] Mr H.-C. Stache wants to tell me something. - Please. [[Abg. Strache: Is the hazelsteiner the one who paid €240 000 to BZÖ?]] – Yes, I am the press speaker of him? – No, so if you want to write a letter, write an ordinary address on it! I am Matthias Strolz, head of a civil movement that will change this country. That's what we're working on. - Goodbye!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12602	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12623	Yes, it is likely that some spectators wonder why some in the House are so hard to do something quite natural, namely to see who is entering our country and who is staying in our country permanently. And especially the Greens are hard at this, but also, and you always hear this out, in the government you are doing very, very hard, because at last you can make nails with heads. There is a question of why this is so; and I am now telling you 17 million reasons. There is an own Commissioner for Migration, that is, Avramopoulos – the Office was created in 2010 to do something to bring 17 million people into the European Union, according to their own figures. That is what the European Union wants, and that is why these people are coming. And if many people wonder why 80 percent of young men come, that's not because they're protecting people, just like they're trying to sell us. In the ORF, too, it is always said when filming how these migrants come into the country that they are seeking protection. No one has asked them whether they are actually protection seekers. The migrants did not say that either, but the ORF knows, of course, as soon as they cross the border that the protection seeker is. And the government is always talking about those seeking protection, even though it cannot know who is actually coming; and it cannot therefore know because we only know a year and a half later after the asylum process has ended, what they really want here and why they come here. There's everything possible with it. There are also so-called missionaries who are trying to convince us of the true faith. There are people who do not accept us as a culture who want to take possession of Europe again, because it is said that Europe originally belongs to Islam and God, at least in the Koran – I am going to quote a few things from the Qur'an today – and that is why these people who are Muslim faith come and want to take possession of Europe again – are also such people there. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] And nobody asks the question: Why do 80 percent of young men come here, although in a war zone women and children are mainly threatened? We know that the men are mostly fighting on the one hand or on the other, and that women and children in the war zones are at risk, but they are not coming – and if so, they are only quite isolated. No one asks this question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aslan.]] Or what about the Christians who are actually persecuted in those countries? – Even those who are being persecuted are not given protection, but on the contrary, if Christians who are actually persecuted come along with these refugees, they will continue to be persecuted in the refugee camps without intervention by the state. It can be seen that those who are supposed to seek protection, who are also said to be persecuted, will often pursue themselves, whether they are pushing Christians in the refugee camps or rape women. So, finally, it's about looking at who's coming. Is that too much? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Is it really too much for citizens to say: Government, you're taking away 50 percent of my money to make sure you're safe, but you're not gonna be able to see who's coming to our country!? – That would be the minimum we can expect. We need to see exactly who comes into the country, and we also know that there is a so-called political Islam. I'm not talking about religion. Religion is private; from me someone can worship or embrace a tree or whatever. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It's private. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But if someone comes to us and wants to impose a faith on us, then that becomes a threat – and with that we are in political Islam. If one reads the Qur'an – and I have made the effort – then one sees it, there it stands – I quote once Sure 9 verse 5: “Now, when the months of protection have expired, the idolaters, wherever you find them, kill them, besiege them, and wait for them from every backlog!” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] But there is also a promise: “But if they repent, pray, and pay the tribute, then let them go their way. ” That is, if you divert there, you have the right to live on. Sure 4 verse 89 reads: “They would like you to disbelieve in the way that they disbelieve, so that you may be alike. So do not take of them any trust until they emigrate in the way of Allah." And now it comes: “But if they turn away, then take them and kill them wherever you find them (...).” These things are in the Qur'an, and I have found a lot of quotations there. I can't present them all because it's very extensive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is exactly what political Islam is. That is, political Islam is a religion that also pursues a political purpose, namely world domination. If you look at the National Socialists, there are a lot of parallels, because: The National Socialists wanted world domination, the National Socialists were intolerant of dissidents, and the National Socialists had the hatred of Jews. Each of these three things unites nationalism with political Islam. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That's why the Muslim brothers were the best friends of the National Socialists and also have in the Second World War – you have to know that too! – made a common case with them. [[Interlocutory calls from Mrs Fekter and Mr Matznetter.]] That means: Political Islam clearly strives for world domination, which will be confirmed by every Islam expert. Secondly, intolerance to dissidents: By the way, these are all you're sitting in here – not all, but let's say the 99 percent who think differently, and they're potentially at risk. [[Abg. Matznetter: Are we...?]] – That’s right, yes, I’m also at risk, that’s not a question! My children are at risk, all who think differently are at risk, and that is the problem of tolerance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter:... listen to you...]] Then: They always come with tolerance therefore! How can you bring to someone who is intolerant himself? – That doesn't work, and if it does, it will become a model of rule. That means that it will ultimately lead to oppression – and that is why we need to wake up! We must wake up, we must carefully control and look at everyone crossing the border: Where does he come from, what does he have for a conviction, and is his conviction compatible with our values at all? [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] If we leave these Muslim missionaries into the country and if we believe that they accept our culture – as the Chancellor postulated: Yes, we will integrate them, and then we have to do trainings! – we will recognise: They do not want to be integrated, quite the contrary. They came to show us how to live a decent culture. They came to explain how we deal with our wives! [[Abg. Fekter: That's why we need a leading culture!]] They came to impose their way of life on us. According to the motto: If you don't want to be my brother, I'll hit your skull! [[Call the ÖVP: So please!]] This is how political Islam works, and if you don't believe it, please look at it! [[Call the Greens: But now it is enough!]] It's high time. Even in the Catholic Church and also in the Jewish community, one wakes up slowly. The threat is there. We have overcome the hatred of the Jews God, and now this hatred of the Jews is again giving with this political Islam, which is coming back into the country through the back door, through your towards – and this is especially the Green Blame. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Finally, an example for the Greens and Greens: In Iran, the left have helped drive out the Shah and implement the Ayatollah, the representative of political Islam in Iran. [[Abg. Fetter:... Khomeini!]] Do you know what happened after that? - He killed them all. This is only a small warning for those who believe that you can let these people into the country and then finally get away with life. It is crucial that: I am not concerned with religion Islam – there are very reasonable people, even in the club we have some employed, Mr. Albayati of the initiative Liberal Muslims Austria is a very reasonable man, one can work with him wonderfully – no, it is about political Islam. It is about those who come from Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan, and many other countries that come here, who want to impose their will on us, who want to spread Islam throughout Europe. [[Abg. Hagen: Turkey!]] If one gives faith to the superintendents, the Muslims will, if they continue to do so, put the majority in Europe in 2050. 2050 – it's not that long. That's why: Top yes, but clearly at zero, and then let's see exactly who's in the country. Only then do we manage what we owe our children, namely our country, to preserve our values for the next generation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12797	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12820	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! I am sorry that Mr Amon is not here right now, because he quoted my question earlier and said that we had forgotten the question of how many people who have been illegally arrested have left the country again. - That's not quite right. Mr Colleague, for in question 17 and in question 19, it is asked how many people who were not admitted to asylum proceedings in 2016 and 2015 have been shown to leave Austria again. The answer of the Minister of the Interior was: ‘Similar statistics shall not be conducted.’ – So: That's exactly how it works, and that's the number trick! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps you could direct it to colleagues Amon: We have not forgotten the question, we just do not get any answers to it, as we always get the answer when we ask very, very many questions to the BMI: [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Schönegger and Matznetter]] The corresponding statistics are not carried out. Now I can't understand why you don't know where to really attack these people: at the national border, in the interior of the country – all of this is contained in exactly this request. These statistics are not conducted. That's where you have to say: Of course, the asylum-numbering tricks are, and so you, Mr. Federal Chancellor – and now I am closing the circle and coming to you – were the first to go to the public with these numerical tricks by saying in May: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Well, we have only 11 000 asylum seekers in the country, and there is no problem at all, we do not reach the ceiling anyway! By the way, this was also the initial inflammation for this request, which then has resulted that both your number – even with the calculation of what you have calculated – did not vote as well as all the other numbers will be bent as you would have liked them to. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I can still remember when Minister of the Interior Mikl-Head said from the government bank: We will now take everything into account, including the family mergers, all who come into the country; it must not be more than 37 500 people! I would like to draw attention to this: The family merger has not yet been calculated, which is still in place in a separate reply, which are yet another nearly 4,000 people who came into the country only in the first half of the year. So much for it – these are the asylum tricks. On the other hand, and this is another essential point in our urgent question, Mr Federal Minister, it is also about jobs. With regard to this, apart from air bubbles, you have actually remained guilty of the answer; you can only agree from the old OTS reports and from all your interviews, what you have said to the labour market so far. What do you say? So you're on the subject of labour market? How do you want to bring the Austrian labour market back to the forerman? Finally, Austria is the final light in the EU. In no other EU country, unemployment is rising so rapidly; in all others, it begins to sink or remain the same. Finally, only Austria is – with us unemployment has increased for eight years now. We have a record high in the summer. In my opinion, it is already very difficult to understand what the Minister for Social Affairs and Labour is doing if we have had an increase in unemployment every month for eight years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] 400,000 people without employment in summer: There has been no such thing since World War II. We will reach half a million in the winter months. We have a funding gap of €700 million in unemployment insurance – this is reflected in the AMS report, because we do not lose sight of these figures. They sit here and tell something – we need this, we have to. You want to introduce a machine tax, you want to destroy qualified jobs, namely moving abroad. Mr Bundeskanzler, you will not believe that companies that are taxed more will then stay in Austria! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Right!]] Yes, of course, they go where they don't have to pay for it. To know that, you don't have to be a great prophet! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] But put on the other side You then come here and say that you want to integrate asylum seekers into the labour market immediately, because that is good for integration. In a large way, attracting cheap workers, while destroying well-qualified jobs, what exactly is this supposed to bring about? This means that unemployment continues to rise. I don't know if you've ever thought about it. This approach cannot take place. If I look at the “profile” interview of the Minister of Social Affairs and Labour, which he gave in the summer, in which he says he wants to fight unemployment by offering kebab to Almhutten, so that he can bring the asylum seekers, the cooks and waiters in the home countries, into a work process, I do not think that this should be surpassed in the form of scurability. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] That's what I'm telling you: It is true that our labour market is certainly a very burdened one, but if you get through with your ideas, Federal Chancellor, then it will only look rather sad. That's what I'm telling you: They go hand in hand with capitalism, for capitalism has long been on the left. Together with Haselsteiner, they want to bring low-cost workers into the country, so that the large industry and the big capital have cheap labour, workers who may only work by 1 €, while the expensive Austrians then stand on the road and then perhaps have to look elsewhere. This is your access. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you and Hazelsteiner, you're under a ceiling, you're going hand in hand. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Stroll.]] By the way, you can also do this so that you can support a joint candidate. In my opinion, this is the end of the circle again. I think that's wrong. [[Abg. Street:... Klagenfurt airport and such projects...!]] One thing, Mr Bundeskanzler, should you also bear in mind: Real wages in Austria have been falling for years. There you can make yourself, there you can make demands that you do not enforce anyway, because what has remained of your air bubbles so far? For example, the termination of negotiations with Turkey: Today you say it would be a miracle if you found a majority. What did you do? Have you already held talks with other EU countries so that a majority can be reached? Or on the topic of CETA post-negotiations: Have you been talking? – You didn’t do it with me! Has Maybe you spoke to the Foreign Minister? For example, the Federal Republic of Germany is creating a return agreement with Afghanistan, as can be seen from the media. Where's Austria? – Austria is juicy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where did you talk to the Foreign Minister? They are nothing but an air bubble chancellor, who stands behind without democratic legitimacy, from the government bank gives anything of itself and believes that the world is pink and beautiful. So, Federal Chancellor, you will not bring Austria forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12952	Next, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e12984	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen also on the gallery and in front of the screens! It is always a difficult discussion when it comes to this content. But I want to ask for one. Please understand, Mr Klubobmann: On the figures that have been mentioned today, that there are 5 000 planning places in the executive today less than in 2000, I don't say they're wrong, but they're from somewhere that's why, where, I don't know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hübner]] [[Abg. Well, didn't you look at the numbers?]] I'll tell you the numbers if you want to hear them, but you can also find them in the BKA and the Ministry of the Interior at any time. We have had the least of the planning points when you were in the government – I have often described this – because we have had a rationalization of the e-planaries and the security management planning posts. Mrs Fekter is still there. We have worked hard in your time as a minister to get back to the planning points for the first time. [[Abg. Fekter: Right!]] With colleague Mikl-Leiter we tried it a second time, and I just recently thanked myself – at the Federal Government, at the Federal Chancellor's office, at the Vice Chancellor's office. [[Abg. You just didn't do it, Mr. Pendl!]] I would like to thank everyone, especially Mrs State Secretary, who has an open ear to the executive. They all said: We'll just see where we need the team strengths, that we'll get these planning points together. If you're interested, I'll just say, When we had a blue Vice-Chancellor who was responsible for the public service, we had about 2,000 planning posts for the executive and 1,000 for the security administration – only so that we know what we are talking about. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] We have not only taken this into account now by looking at the challenges of the Austrian executive, but we have also taken into account here in this House – the opposition also calls for this in the last security discussion, but never agrees – some important decisions concerning the protection of the Constitution and all these areas. This is no question at all; this applies to scientists, technicians and everything we need there, and also to the executive planning posts. And you've never been involved in the decisions, you've always voted against them. Something doesn't fit in here. But I think we're on a good path. Everyone knows the procedure. Today, if we send Austrian officials, especially when it comes to the military, into foreign service, it takes a decision in the Council of Ministers or in the main committee. That's what we have to decide. All these things have already been brought on the journey by the Federal Government, and they will soon be decided in the main committee. I believe it is important that we take these measures at the EU's external borders, but if you make yourself here and say that we have thousands of people too little compared to the year 2000, that is simply and decisively unfair. If you make yourself here and tell us where we're missing people everywhere, I mean we have to be clear: We have negotiated an excellent budget for the entire security area, for the Austrian Federal Army and for the police over the next four years. If we want a proper training of colleagues to whom I call myself, then it will take time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We are currently recording what is on the market. The training criteria are good, correct, strict – I recognize this – but this takes his time. In order for us to be able to take this up, including for the border, we have taken other reception arrangements and other training procedures – that is good, Mrs State Secretary – for discharge. However, I believe, as a general rule, that there is sufficient provision for the Austrian police or the military. The fact that we have to implement this is something else. I would also like to make it clear that there are a number of tasks in the agglomerations. – I invite all the Members of this House: We can't get everyone to intervene in the Ministry of the Interior without interruption when it comes to who should be taken home while we're missing people in the agglomerations. I would really ask that we also recognize and recognize what tasks we have in the agglomerations. I would like to conclude by thanking the Austrian police, the soldiers and also the NGOs for their commitment to our home country, the Republic and their citizens. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, that in future we may discuss these human issues a little more objectively.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13065	Next, Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13086	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have been conducting a left-right discussion in Austria for months, especially when it comes to dealing with the refugee situation. Both are wrong. Welcome culture is wrong, and it is also wrong to see a murderer or a criminal in every refugee. It takes the power of the middle, ladies and gentlemen, which solves this problem with propriety and home mind. [[Abg. Lugar: Well, then go once...!]] And we can give this power to the middle, especially we from the EIA, because we have also taken care that we are in a safe country. We have taken the necessary measures, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Tell once...!]] Mr Strache, you are trying to tell the people that everything is nothing: A ceiling is not a ceiling. The Asylum Regulation speaks You don't even turn on even though you already have the texts in your rows. And neither do you mention that we have done everything we can to get hold of this difficult situation that broke into our country a year ago. [[Abg. Stefan: A year ago!]] – A year ago, about a year ago. The upper limit will be met, the special asylum regulation will be decided here in this House, and we have the overall situation under control. [[Abg. Strache: You've let her through!]] Of course, we will ensure that integration can also take place, and that is the difference between us. [[Abg. Strache: So you want to integrate political Islam?]] Every refugee is not welcome with you, so to speak, no one is allowed to come to the country. Austria has always received refugees, but we want a limit because otherwise integration is not possible. [[Abg. Strache: You should listen to Cardinal Schönborn's speech...!]] This is the responsibility of policy to set limits and, on the other hand, to enable integration and not just to pour oil into the fire. [[Abg. Strache: You would have at the Mass of Cardinal Schönborn...!]] This does not help us in this essential question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] The second is the labour market, also in connection with social benefits. [[Abg. Strache: Power of Arbitration!]] Not only do we need a strong Europe and security for Austria, we also need site and employment security. And the labour market is tense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] And of course it is a challenge to get low-qualified people into the labour market at all. We currently have 25 000 unemployed recognised refugees. It is a huge task to deal with this, but it is mainly about learning the language that these people will also be introduced into a qualification, and then it will be possible for them to engage in activities. We do not need to pretend that this has never happened in our country. In fact, it has been the case for decades now that people from other countries come to us and take over activities on the labour market. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We must also address this question: Why do we have so many open jobs that we cannot occupy at the moment? This means dealing with whether we need to not turn on one screw or another screw. And the third point is social security and justice in this context. If we accept people and also give them a social benefit, it is also entitled to ask the question: At what height and how long and under what conditions do we give these people the social benefits? It must in all cases be in an appropriate relationship with what people in this country can earn. In other words, we need a comparison between minimum pensioners and what we can earn with income from work in Austria. For this we stand by the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need a cover in this area, we have to vote for the duration of our stay – who has not lived in this country in the last five years gets lower social security or minimum insurance – but we can also improve this if you are willing to engage in a non-profit activity. This is an important question for integration – so that the population sees that these people are also willing to pursue an activity – and it is a supporting activity and not a substitute for a full job, Mrs Collaborative of the FPÖ. It is important, however, that we also live up to these integration measures. We're negotiating. According to the principle: Performance must pay off!, we will bring this issue, I think, to a conclusion. The ÖVP will do all it can to ensure that this is successfully concluded.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13252	Mrs Mag. Korun. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13273	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and also in the gallery! This is now our first meeting after the summer break, and I assume that you all, like me, have tried to recover from the last year of work, which was quite busy. I also believe that many of us, if not all, have been thinking about our work here in summer, about our function, about our chosen being to master challenges. I did it to myself, and I'm sure that many of you have been working on it. I hope, equipped with fresh energies, we, at least as many of us as possible, will not get into old patterns. During the summer you have certainly also had many conversations with citizens in which you have received the political frustration that is just coming out of the people. [[Abg. Rädler: Your name has often fallen!]] – Thank you for the appreciative way in which the colleague of the ÖVP – exactly! – I'll show you what I mean by that. [[Abg. Rädler: I also talked to citizens!]] I mean, how we deal with each other and that the value-added handling here in the House is often lacking. I wish that not with the first session after the summer break this one-other laugh, with the finger-on-one hands, this kind of non-esteemingly dealing with each other, take place again. And I would modestly like to point out that this has already happened to many speakers today. [[Abg. Lugar: But go!]] We are chosen to address important challenges. We are living in a world where we are dealing with the great challenges we face – whether this is climate overheating, whether it is the rise of poverty that we are experiencing, while at the same time there is an incredible amount of wealth in the world, whether it is the massive separation of people's chances of living or whether it is the challenge with displaced and refugees who have been counting on it for some years – no one can solve today or in the future nationally! That's the situation we're in. I am referring, because there was a lot of work here, just one example – what has been in the EU for years of normal madness or normality of insanity – of the fact that EU countries are trying to boot each other out with tax dumping. Do we wonder if, among the EU countries, which should actually be partners for each other, there is massive tax dumping, that there is a massive wage dumping, that jobs are destroyed, although they are supposed to arise where some countries – and names do not need to mention here – offer even lower and lower taxes? Do you wonder, then, that jobs are being destroyed, that unemployment is increasing and that many people cannot live from their wages, from their salary? And then all this to push the refugees into the shoes or to believe it is because there is immigration, that is a bird-strout policy, ladies and gentlemen! With this bird-traffic policy, with special emergency regulations, with barbed wire fence on the border, no protection seeker will disintegrate, and no new job will be created with it. Yes, we live in a networked world, which is becoming more complex, and this may lead some people – young, old, woman, man, foreigners, by the way – to believe in very simple sounding solutions. The living conditions that we have – where we depend on each other, where tax dumping and wage dumping threaten and destroy jobs here – will not continue with a slump, including within the EU, and with a bird sluggish policy. What kind of situation do we have with regard to the so-called refugee question? – The United Nations has announced that over 65 million people – displaced and refugees – are fleeing worldwide. Over 85 percent of these people are supplied by so-called developing countries, located in so-called developing countries. If we now say this as an EU country or as the whole EU, we are not interested in it, we will not take it up, they will drown in the Mediterranean, we will set up barbed wire fences, so the war in Syria will not cease, and therefore the displaced and refugees will not be dissolved. I would have hoped that at our first meeting after the summer break in which we meet again, we would have discussed concrete, quite different solutions and concepts, but we would not have a herb-and-rub discussion, in which unemployment, the lack of reforms in the school system, the lack of health reform, and for many more the poorest of the poor will be blamed – which, by chance, also have no right to vote. This should also be the main reason, because these people who are responsible for everything are responsible for the lack of reforms over the last decades, who can practically not defend themselves at the constituency either. However, this policy will not solve problems, and the greater the problems and the more they will be pushed forward by politics, the greater the political frustration will become. I ask all my colleagues – in my own interest, if it has to be – to recognize that a hack that does not solve a single problem, but increases the frustration of the removal of barbed wire fences, special regulations, maximum numbers shaken out of the sleeve. In this sense, I hope for constructive solutions for our society and for Europe as a whole. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13337	Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13358	Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Matthias Strolz did it in his speech: Today we have a request on everything and nothing. But when it comes to economic policy issues and jobs, I have rarely heard as much of nothing as it is in the contribution of Klubobmann Strache, because he does not make any proposals because he simply does not care about what it is all about. In this respect, one cannot even speak of economic vaunting, because there was no vaunting and nothing came. [[Abg. Jarolim: You can only talk about nonsense!]] One can really say that this is so dramatic, considering that one wants to take over government responsibility, but does not bring concepts. It's a little dramatic. However, at this special meeting, which, as in the title, is difficult to recognize, I should like to address to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, whose statements and proposals in the field of economic policy take a closer look at. – That’s quite interesting. I give Mr Bundeskanzler Kern quite rightly in his realization that the factor work is much too high taxed, or as we always say in our wording: The employees cost too much and earn too little. – That’s absolutely right. You present in your concepts, Mr. Bundeskanzler, but in my opinion old concepts, old hats, as you do in the daily newspaper “Die Presse” of 4. August – and I’ve now got a few quotes ready – said: “The value-added levy is a very democratic position, whose reasonableness I can best interpret.” I have to disagree with you right now, because it is just the prime Social Democrats, prominent family members, who believe that it was expressed by the former German Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Wolfgang Clement – in the O-Ton – that: “A machine tax would therefore be the last thing I think of.” – Or a social democrat, if you want to hear one, like Hannes Androsch – I think you haven’t yet excluded him – says: [[Ruf:But a Social Democratic...]] ‘Machine tax is progress taxation’. I think he's right about going there. They say of themselves – and that's actually what made me clairvoyant – you don't want to be reduced to a single liner. Unfortunately, since I have not heard anything and the Social Democracy does not produce anything new, I could have said in your concepts – I have a single liner ready: Dear Federal Chancellor, this is more of the same! There's nothing new about it. For example, they want to burden the work factor with a new tax and forget that we actually have an expenditure problem and not a revenue problem. [[Abg. Krainer: We have a tax structure problem! Some pay too high taxes and some too little!]] We could actually slow down a lot with an efficient coordination of expenditure or also with a debt brake – you can then talk, Mr Cot! – and therefore do not need to highlight the revenue problem, because you do not need any more revenue at all, you only need to spend less – and you know that too. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Krainer]] To save 1 billion € per year by removing inefficiencies is an easy thing, because, as in the press, I think today, we can read it. Inefficient is still required. They have no new concepts here, but we have concepts. I would like to quote you again: "But through the rise of scanner funds, such jobs are significantly reduced. It’s an illusion to re-train these people into rocket science or computer technology.” – You said that in the “profile” in June. Forget only one You also: That machines have taken away people's jobs, we have heard for over 150 years, and in the final effect that has never occurred. More and better machines create more jobs and prosperity. We all know that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If the machine tax comes, Mr Bundeskanzler, then it will no longer be with the job creation and prosperity in our country. What must happen if you do not want to be reduced to a single liner? – Please reduce the additional wage costs! This is the first step, and this has always been contained in our concepts. The third quote, Mr Bundeskanzler, is as follows: “I’m not ready to watch industries move jobs to the US or Asia.” – You said that in the “Kurier”. So, and now let's take a closer look at this with the machine tax: I think Mr Eder from the Voest is then gone faster than you take the breakfast coffee in the morning. This will happen because it's not just this machine tax alone. There are also the conditions paired with bureaucracy, a dwindling legal certainty and higher taxation, which naturally leads to the blast furnaces then to stop in Texas and no longer in Austria. With the fourth quote we get away from the machine tax. ==References== You said, I believe, in ‘NEWS’: “On the other hand, I declare myself free to trade.” – I must confess, Federal Chancellor, I have placed great hope in you at your speech of entry. I believed it when you said that performance has to pay off again, and much more. Much I could have signed at the time, but already now, in late summer, I know that has the appearance of a belly spot in the old female summer. It will be very cold for us – also the reality, Mr. Federal Chancellor, as well as the advice you gave to TTIP and CETA. I know this is a sicker for the Chamber of Workers, but: Where is your commitment to CETA and TTIP now? – A quote comes to my mind again: “It cannot be the task of a politician to shut down public opinion and then do the popular. The task of the politician is to do the right thing and then make it popular.” The quote is not from you, but that is what the recently deceased President Walter Scheel from Germany said. They have acted on me – and I mean that seriously – so far like a politician who takes this saying seriously and as a fact. But how do you want to create 200 000 jobs in such a short time? – There is, of course, a lot to be said about this. It is not a novelty for politicians to promise jobs. We already had the promise of the 420 000 jobs, which were not created after the election – we had before. That was a detachment. That kind of reminds of a nigel farage after the Brexit. It has already been mentioned by 25 000 jobs alone in Vienna, by Mr Juracka, who did not come either. People are simply tired of these promises! They need concepts, and they need the big picture you should draw to create jobs. It's about the following: They don't create jobs! The jobs in this country are created by entrepreneurs like me or others here in the hall – there are not so many here – but basically you create the framework conditions, and they should give a positive picture. There is no need for crossovers like those of the new Bundesobmann of the ÖAAB, who demands 1 600 € minimum wage. [[Abg. Katzian: That's too little!]] This quick headline you're striving for is a brake of all things. This quick headline should be seen in particular in the light of the fact that we have 500,000 jobseekers in this country. We should run against it, and we need anything other than concepts of empty promises. We need an entire picture, to which many different small puzzle and building blocks contribute. One of them is with absolute certainty a tax reduction and no new taxation of machinery. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, the quote of one of your predecessors: “Learn story!” – In this sense: Automation and progress have still created jobs. We want to keep that up. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13484	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13595	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13616	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have two major problems in Austria: firstly, an uncontrolled wave of immigration under the motto of asylum; and secondly, I believe that I am an incapable government, which is not or in most cases wrong. I'll explain this later. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you have been in office for 126 days today, if I have counted correctly. You know, I have put a lot of hope in you in my speech about your taking office – others as we have heard before. I think that very many people have put great hopes in you, but apart from beautiful words I have not noticed anything so far. If I compare this briefly with Foreign Minister – who is acting for a future election decision as your opponent – he also speaks a lot – that is true – and often quite reasonable, especially if he takes over my ideas from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. [[Cheerfulness of Members Auer and Katzian.]] He's done a lot, and he's got something ahead of you, Federal Chancellor: He has called the Balkan Conference, and a solution has been created that has done us well in Austria. I have to say that. He's closed the Balkan route, it's on his side. Unfortunately, with you, Federal Chancellor, I have not seen anything on the home page. Now I have to ask myself, Federal Chancellor: Where is Your performance? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You didn't listen!]] I would also like to give you something, and I have been making the following request for a three-quarters of a year time and again: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Bundeskanzler, why do I make this request again and again? I'll give you a copy so you can read it. [[d.o.b.]] I also do not care if the SPÖ or the government parties then make this request under their name, it is important that it be introduced and implemented. – De Maizière in Germany has already gone on this track. We have a lot of asylum seekers, and you, Mr President-in-Office, have also confirmed this in your speech. You said at the beginning of your speech that there are a lot of people around us, but we don't get rid of them anymore. And why don't we get her out of here? – Because we have no withdrawal quotas or no agreements with the countries. We must help ourselves by negotiating this with the North African states. You can also do this on your own initiative, which does not have to do the EU, that can be done by Austria itself. You are the head of the government, you can instruct the Foreign Minister that he is negotiating with Tunisia, for example, that there is such a waiting camp to bring those people who have received a negative asylum notice in Austria to be cared for there until they may perhaps consider whether they return to their home country. – That is what happens when one hears about the former Afghan President Karzai, who said that Afghans should return home and build their country. That would be the right way for us – and not the way to awaken hopes and say that they can stay here, and that we will not take them away. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern has said quite clearly that he wants to achieve full employment by 2020 in his summer interview in the ORF – and I listened very carefully to it – and you have repeated it today. Now I'd like to give you an example. I recently spoke to a police officer who is in a top position and was in service in Salzburg last year with this refugeeandrang or with this immigration attempt. He told me the following: At the food issue there was chaos, so the police said they're doing two lines with lock bands in between, there are people being led into two rows, and then they always alternate left and right one the food, then they go fast and there's no dispute. The interpreter then told him that it did not work because two thirds of the refugees did not know what was left and what was right. Ladies and gentlemen, that makes me think. If I then hear that you want to bring these so-called refugees – and for me, economic refugees – so far as they can be integrated into the work process, I wish you good luck, because by 2020 you will never and never do this, Federal Chancellor. I think that is a clear point. Then I would like to give you a little more, and perhaps you should say that quite clearly from the government side. I went to the “NEUE – Vorarlberger Zeitung” on 28 October. August of this year read the following: “There is a lack of respect for the state.” – This is not especially true for our citizens now, but a refugee caretaker writes that the refugees who come here have no respect for our state and our state power. That's why we have such a chaos. The government is called upon to clarify: If you come to this country, then our rules, our laws, and then our way of life will be adopted here! – I think that would be the right step. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, at the end of the day I would like to give you a little more. They are a supporter of the presidential candidate Van der Bellen. Now I would like to read to you the following, perhaps this will change your mind: “The Greens represent an immigration policy that takes into account the interests, expectations and hopes of potential immigrants and not (...) the interests of the host country, its economy and its population.” – This is from the 2001 Green Party Programme, which is still valid. And who signed that? - Alexander Van der Bellen! Mr. Federal Chancellor, you should consider whether you support a person's taking the highest office in the state, which is against the interests of the Austrian population and the Austrian economy. I don't think that's what I have to say anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13695	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13756	The next item is the report by Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13777	Ladies and gentlemen, Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr Hagen! Yes, Mr Hagen's remarks were quite unanimous, and there is little to say about them or to suspend them. However, we cannot support this request, Mr President, because you are making the bock a gardener. If you want to create an EU institution, set up and maintain the outsourcing camps in African states, then, I believe, the failure is predetermined, because EU institutions are capable of dealing with the current crisis at all times in the speech-blowing policy of the Federal Chancellor, but not in reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am surprised that the Federal Chancellor is still saying that we need European solutions, there are only solutions at European level, and that we are now doing more for SOPHIA, the EU's Mediterranean action, if he says at the same time that we are now superior to reason and to the solution within the framework of our possibilities and also in the interests of our people. It's going on, because: What's the operation SOPHIA doing? – It does nothing but organize free mass towing services in the Mediterranean, thus providing the best possible propaganda for all immigrants and for all refugees and tors. They take up so-called refugees, migrants, would-be immigrants, illegals from the African coast from 10 miles away, provide them with clothing – medical, food, clothing – and bring them to the territory of the European Union, where, due to the current circumstances, they are virtually indispensable and therefore remain permanent, whether they get asylum status or not – this is all the more important – because our EU-controlled policy means everyone who enters illegal European soil remains. Austria's making deportations. In fact, it is around 5,000, but out of Europe it is zero. We are doing deportations within the framework of the Dublin system. We make deportations to Kosovo, Albania, even Macedonia, Romania – but outside Europe: zero. And since the great flow of immigrants does not come from Romania or Macedonia or Kosovo – these are a few that come, compared to the wave that roams across Europe – this means that everyone entering the illegal European soil remains here. And someone who says the solution can only be European and everything we do is temporary, not only is he lying to himself in the bag, but in my opinion he is also lying to the people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if anyone here claims that there is only the approach to safeguarding the European external borders by European institutions, he does the same thing as I said before. What are the plans that are in the drawer here, which are already in place in some cases? The plans are the so-called hotspots, i.e. the European Union camp at the external borders, where everyone can come who manages to reach these camps, where each one finds and where it is tested in advance, whether he may have an asylum ground. While this is being tested, people are provided in camps at the expense of the European Union, and then they are to be divided into the European states. This solution would be the absolute end of every self-determination of our immigration system. This solution will never be thank God, since the eastern half of Europe has already made it clear that it does not participate, but we have supported this solution at European level to this day. Now we need to know that the Austrian Federal Government supports this hotspot policy, the Austrian Federal Government supports the so-called quotas, the division of illegal mass immigrants across Europe. That is to say, the Austrian Federal Government is talking about solutions here, but supports all that is certainly not a solution, but what is nothing but propaganda for illegal mass immigration in Europe. That, of course, is where our internal quota, the 35 000 quota and this special regulation are now in place. It does not say that there must be no further immigration from the Third World's title of asylum to Europe, but it says that there must be 35 000, without saying what happens to the 36 000th, the 37,000th, or the 91,000th. He is not allowed to apply for asylum. He must not apply for asylum, but must wait until he can make an asylum application. But if he comes from the title of family estate or illegal, he is not affected by this regulation at all. In other words, we are here making half-hearted solutions, which are actually another invitation to come to Europe by their half-heartedness, as the message is: Come in and stay there! I haven't heard anything... – He's coming, the proposal that comes, just wait! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I have not heard anything about the fact that we are now actively entering into negotiations on withdrawal agreements with the countries of origin. I have not heard that we are working on an Australian solution that we are looking for a non-European target state that is addressing the potential or supposed asylum needs of illegal immigrants there. I didn't hear about that. What we need is cooperation with so-called willing states in Europe – those countries that are willing to make a realistic policy, such as Hungary, Slovakia and now also the Czech Republic and Poland. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is, we need to cooperate with the Visegrád block, with all the countries whose governments trust to see the truth in the face, and say: We do not allow any further illegal extra-European immigration with us, we find out who we are immigrating, and with the title asylum or finger-lifting: I want asylum!, no one can come to us. The Hungarian government has proved against the will of the European Union for a long time and also against the massive Austrian resistance. There has practically been a zero immigration, and the boundaries are dense – all of which it has recently called it impossible. We need such a consistent policy in the question of Turkey. That's what we need. If the Federal Chancellor says he will try to do so, but he does not see any prospect, then he needs a strengthening. That is why we make the following request; it is not entirely new, but it is as up-to-date as at the first time: [[Quoted print version removed]] This request will probably now be acceptable to everyone in the Federal Government, since the Federal Chancellor himself has requested support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13884	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13948	Mr Brosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the relevant provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e13975	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Hagen, in his speech, tried to quote the Green Party Programme. He didn't succeed. Thankfully, he has made the expression available to me at once, so I can now bring it as it really stands inside. As you have said, in the party programme, the Greens represent an immigration policy that takes into account the interests of immigrants, but not the interests of the economy and the population of Austria. However, they have left out a word. Now I quote completely: “The Greens represent an immigration policy that takes into account the interests, expectations and hopes of potential immigrants” – with great I, to make it clear – “and not” – and now the word you have omitted “only takes into account the interests of the host country, its economy and its population.” It is obvious that you have turned the meaning of the sentence into the reverse. You could also have quoted the next sentence to make it even clearer: “It’s about people who need Austria and want to find a new home here, on the one hand, about the skilled and labour force that Austria needs and will need due to its work and economic situation.” The next time, perhaps, it will become clearer!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14015	Mrs Lueger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14036	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is undisputed that since last year, when many people have fled war and destruction, Austria has been in a difficult situation. However, it does not solve any problem when Mr Hagen now suggests that we make a zero solution and that no one comes into Austria anymore. Above all, this does not solve the problem, that the people who are already there, who have also received asylum, are not simply gone with his proposal, but they are here and want to have a decent accommodation and ultimately lead a decent life. Therefore, I would like to make two constructive points, on the one hand a rapid integration of those who are already here – rapid integration! – but, of course, in return – that is what we are doing nationally on the one hand, but on the other hand, as far as international aspects are concerned, the Foreign Minister is also required – the improvement in terms of the conclusion of return agreements. When I speak of rapid integration, I mean two things: language on the one hand and working life on the other and the labour market on the other. In Austria, we have the problem that we do not have a uniformly applicable integration concept, that there are different responsibilities and system breaks. In order to correct these system errors, Mr Doskozil and Mr Stöger and our Secretary of State Duzdar have composed and created a so-called integration year. This would be an approach we could choose to allow more rapid integration to the people who are here. There is a very clear path of integration with the aim of achieving integration both in society and in the labour market as quickly as possible. The orientation is to be achieved by means of a so-called integration compass, which is characterised by a solidarity demand from the promoter and the demandr, as well as by a duty of participation of those who are already present, but also by clear consequences for non-participation. I believe that the qualification requirement for young asylum seekers who are already out of school is one of the essential points to give those young people a perspective for the future and then to bring them into the labour market quickly and to take all measures, In order to prepare them for the labour market. There are positive examples, such as the pilot project of the Youth College, which we can roll out, for example, in Austria. This also applies to language courses. In the case of language courses themselves, people who do not yet have asylum status but have a high degree of recognition should already work for integration, not only from the date on which they have a certificate of recognition. This should then go so far as to come to the actual legal claim on these German courses, which are to last 15 hours a week. The orientation courses, which are based on the current value courses, are, I think, a positive and essential aspect, because it should be made quite clear again: We're a secular society. We have the equal rights of man and woman in Austria. We are working for a self-determined life. We need all the information to build up the everyday and system knowledge of these people, and the fundamental principles of the rule of law need to be clarified again. Above all, it is also important to clarify the competence: Although the universities are autonomous, this should be the same throughout Austria, for Austria otherwise loses good training staff that could also be involved. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. All applications submitted shall be submitted requiring a reduction of the service provider's contribution to the FLAF. Mr Alm – if you are so sweet and right, he is not here right now, excuse me! – we have already decided on this reduction at the last budget. [[Abg. Alm has that hand.]] There will be a 0.4 percent reduction in 2017 and a 0.2 percent reduction in 2018. This is only one point, however, why we will reject this request, because we will certainly not agree to the abolition of Chamber 2 and the reduction of the Chamber of Workers' housing from 0.5 to 0.25 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14090	Mrs Nachbaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14112	God, Mr President! Dear representatives on the government bank! Dear colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers! We are now experiencing a storm of people in Italy, especially from Africa. In Italy, however, we hardly want to remain one, and that is why we need the upper limit and the emergency regulation, which allows us to close the borders quickly in the case of the case. [[Abg. Nice: But not this upper limit, Mrs Colleague!]] I find more than questionable that the EU has made the Turkish president a gral guardian of our borders. We must pay attention to our own borders, and we Europeans must at all be careful that we are not blatant Openness does not abolish itself, as Cardinal Schönborn has now mentioned, and also that we do not forget with a loud tolerance what we actually stand for, namely, a secular, but clearly Christian, even Jewish, society, where laws made by men and women are equal. Of course, we want to be human, but we do not want to send out good human siren sounds that attract desperate people just as much as other people who want to improve economically. On the contrary, we need increased local aid, a well-structured resettlement programme and a strict application of our laws. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many come to us because of the suckling effects of the welfare states. Of course, the minimum level of protection has taken place, and it is therefore urgent to reduce it for migrants and to introduce non-profit 1-€ jobs at the same time. This is not about dumping of wages, but about the fact that solidarity with migrants should not become a practiced non-oliarity with the people living here, which is a yearly deposit into the system. However, as long as there are politicians in Europe who are estranged from our generous social life and offer our prosperity internationally, only economic reason for many Arabs, Africans and perhaps others will lead them to get on their way here. This cannot be blamed on them, but we must prevent this in the sense of Austria and in the sense of Europe, but also in the sense of the countries of origin, for: How are they supposed to get on their feet if their capable, powerful people are missing? By the way, I find it particularly absurd that many – thank God not all, but many – today in the former workers' party primarily use for the non-working people and generously make the money of the working people available to them. Especially in Vienna this is so. Think of the red-green project cycling for migrants. For three years there have not even been 50 women, and that costs more than 50 000 €. Sure, that doesn't make it possible to clean up a budget, but Vienna has quite different problems, a huge unemployment rate of more than 13 percent, the debt burden, the fees, the security situation; I don't know how the situation with Islamic kindergartens is. In any case, there are really other concerns in Vienna. The Federal Government has, in order to say something positive, found a reasonable solution with the emergency regulation, and now also needs a reasonable solution to combat record unemployment. We have to relieve the economy! We must let them be freed and worked from absurd regulations, but not from filling out various data sheets, but from their own business. And we don't need a new tax on investment for heaven's sake. We need investments like a bite of bread, but our entrepreneurs are currently investing more abroad than domestically. That must be an alarm sign. The solution can certainly no longer be debt and more state, but rather a significantly reduced tax and tax burden, a slimmer state and simplified rules. By the way, the Austrian empress Maria Theresia may even have been ahead of us. After all, she had all the draft laws read to a normal citizen first, and if that could not do so in her own words, she immediately sent it back to simplify it. Take an example! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14154	Mr Walser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14176	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the government! High house! Yes, Mr Strache – yes, I see you already, no anxiety, I always have you in mind, even if you do not believe it – your urgent request today has gone into your pants a bit. [[Abg. Strache's got that hand.]] [[Abg. He's taking care of me!]] But I have made the effort to listen carefully to your speech – that has made some effort – and I have read through your urgent request, and I have compared it with the specific figures. Now I'm just allowed to bring a few examples of what you've given here for the best and how you work. [[The speaker places a table with a graphic titled “Unemployed in Austria” on the speaker’s desk.]] The “work” refers mainly to Facebook. The FPÖ policy is one that deliberately divides society, deliberately defaming immigrants – and that with pseudofacts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For example, this is what you post on Facebook: Unemployment in Austria by origin. And here you have the forehead to claim that of all the unemployed only 30.4 percent of Austrians – that you always leave the female form, let's leave it here – are 28.2 percent foreigners and 41.4 percent are so-called people with migration backgrounds. [[Abg. Lugar: We want this!]] That's what you share – and that's FPÖ system – in the social networks, with Mr. Gudenus' preference, other present rulers do, and, of course, if this is corrected. In this case, for example, it was corrected by the head of the labour market service Johannes Kopf. He pointed out to you that you once again confused something or, I would say, deliberately misrepresented it. [[Abg. Strache: That’s from the “curier ”!]] These 28.2 percent are part of the 41.4 percent, so the Austrians – I don't know what you call it – are the bio-Austrians or whatever, because even the people with the migration background are Austrians – account for almost 60 percent of them alone. This is diffamation à la FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: This is an article from the “Kurier”, Mr. Walser!]] But that's not enough – you continue to hate social media, and you also hate lies there. A particularly ghastly example, Mr. Strache, was a really particularly repulsive example after this terrible attack in Munich. [[The speaker presents a table with Facebook postings by Abg. Strache and MEP Vilimsky on the speaker's desk.]] As early as the evening of the attack, the Munich police made it clear who this perpetrator was about, namely, a right-wing extremist. [[Lively cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] If you think that's funny! – Yes, Allahu Akbar, you write this, but do you know what he really called? [[Abg. Strache: An Iranian right-wing extremist who shouts Allahu Akbar!]] – “Shit Turks” he called. Read what the Munich police give the best! He said: I'm a German. He is a fan of your sister party AfD, which he has publicly said he is a fan of the Norwegian mass murderer and right-wing extremist Anders Breivik. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] And the next day you write this against better knowledge. The German police have already made it clear that this is not true. And: Who shares it? – Of course, your EU member Harald Vilimsky. [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo, Vilimsky!]] – Indignant, repulsive, hesitant! I'm sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it goes on, Mr. Strache. What are you doing in Austria? [[The speaker put a table with Facebook postings on the speaker's desk the other day.]] You also hate here: ‘ACH employee extracts: Asylum seekers should be preferred for operations.” Of course, the AKH is distanced from it, it is not at all right. Gudenus divides it, and, and, and. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – It’s just not true! This is widespread on your social networks, and that is the method of FPÖ. [[The Redner puts another board with Facebook postings on the speaker's desk.]] These are the reactions that exist then: "Why should an asylumant be treated in the AKH at all? He shall be hanged there or landed at the electric chair.” These are the reactions on your homepage, on your Facebook account – and it will not be deleted, despite clues. Mr. Strache, what you are doing in this society is a dangerous game. We have started to reveal this time and again. We've got it. You have now also complained several times, your party gangs and partygoers – mainly the partygoers – and we will not stop calling your hetzeric course what it is: plumpe diffamating hetze! They split society, you're not responsible for what's going on with politics. I can only say towards ÖVP and SPÖ: Whoever enters coalitions with this party works against the interests of the country that splits and helps to help this force to increase its influence here. Not with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14380	Mr Alm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14402	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! High house! The invitation of the FPÖ to this special meeting is once again such a national economic mystery as we have already received it from the public. The titles are becoming more complex and not only have caused havoc with my colleagues Strolz and Schellhorn. – Yes, well, in the event of disturbance, Thomas Bernhard is naturally thought of, but FPÖ often reminds me of Thomas Bernhard. - It doesn't matter. Work and safety, you say, are apparently a function of asylum and Turkish endos as you call it. They assume that many jobs and a high level of security are associated with the fact that asylum-numbering and Turkish endos – as you say – have to decrease. If you look at the actual numbers, they speak another language. The number of jobs available in Austria has increased over the last ten years, from 3,826 million to 4,148 million jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] Even if you subtract those entitled to asylum from the AMS statistics you mention in your urgent request, there is still an increase in jobs. That means that this assumption that there is too little here is not correct or that is not the case for your reasons. Asylum seekers are not included in this account either, because they do not appear in these statistics. The level of safety is similar. The level of security is rising to a large extent, but no one wants to be impoverished here, that of course there is also an increase in the offences. You just have to look at the area in which these crimes occur: Small crime, drug crime, but also cybercrime. Let's leave it. She is very happy to mention it, because you cannot, of course, put up with the target group you prefer – the asylum seekers or those entitled to it. Even in the statement of Klubobmann Strache, 40 percent of the suspects – and we speak of suspects, not criminals – strangers, one has to face up to where these strangers come from. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We looked at these with our colleague Pilz, the statistics!]] They come from Romania, Germany, Serbia, Turkey, Afghanistan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Hungary, Slovakia. Now the question: How many countries are among which asylum seekers usually come to us? – Relatively few, that is, just one; there are even EU countries below. And that was even a ranking I've presented to you. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, right! We even have Spanish asylum seekers who have become criminal!]] – Yes, of course, there are even Austrians who become criminal. Imagine that! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Have you listened, or are you just talking about anything?]] The problems will not be ignored, only the contexts that the FPÖ is creating here will not vote once again. So you have to explain to me once again the connection between jobs and Turks. The Turk Endos that you have in the headline, you have then missed out in a bit, because you obviously didn't know what you wanted to say with it anymore, or because the number of cases is just too low. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Of course, as Klubobmann Strolz has also said, you have included the jobs in the headline. We are very pleased that this is an issue we are happy to discuss. How can we cope with this growing unemployment despite the increasing number of jobs? One could, for example, extend the amount of work that would be an economic policy, labour market policy measure. There are good initiatives such as the start-up package, which can also be paid in things such as innovations or new forms of work, which also lead to more sustainable employment – initiatives that lead to companies not leaving Austria and moving abroad but, on the contrary, to settle here. What doesn't work is a way of stagnation that you say you have a certain amount of work for which employers pay, and that you re-distribut to multiple heads. We know that this doesn't work, and we don't mind working less, but that's what we do with modernisation, that's what we achieve with automation, and any of us who survive a Voight-Kampff test won't have to be afraid of automation. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Not even in front of the NEOS!]] But what works in addition to extending this available amount of work is that the cost of the labour factor is reduced. Mr Schellhorn has already explained how we would seek to reduce the additional cost of wages. That's where the bill is relatively simple: If we manage to reduce some of the additional wage costs, we will help the companies that actually create jobs, because taxes and taxes do not create jobs, or only in the public service. If the companies have this margin by means of an additional wage reduction, then there is indeed more money for the companies, which can be invested in more employment or in other measures. Yes, in part it might even be a profit, but that should not prevent us from taking this measure anyway. As you know, a part of the profit is also included in the budget as a koest or as a Kest. Sepp Schellhorn has already explained the request to reduce the additional wage costs. What we still want to put aside and become, in addition, is a request to halve the corporate tax on untapped profits, namely from 25 percent to 12.5 percent. We have a request to put it in a simple sentence: [[Quoted print version removed]] This measure leads relatively quickly to results. It will invest more, it will be more busy, it will increase competitiveness, there are more relocations, fewer relocations, and last but not least, the equity ratio of companies will be strengthened. These requests from us, these ideas from us, are on the table at the next meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14506	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14557	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14579	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, I am pleased that you are still here today and that you can also follow the speakers who are still standing behind. I would like to ask here a specific question to you, which has not been adequately answered today, namely, as you are sure in Austria, Mr Bundeskanzler. Already in September 2014 – at the time we commissioned a survey in which the security feeling of the Austrians was questioned – that is, before the refugee-lawine, the wave of refugees, 67 percent of the respondents stated that their security needs were not adequately satisfied by politics. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] What has happened since then? – People have come to us, they have come uncontrolled to our country. At the time, in your responsibility at the ÖBB, you still carried people through. The current Minister of Defense has also done his utmost to ensure that people have come to our country uncontrolled. The Ministry of the Interior did not even have statistics on whether the people who had been picked up had things with them, whether they had bombs, whether they had weapons, or whether they had other things. No statistics are conducted on such important aspects in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, must also be made clear here and put to the point. I would like to come back to that again: The sense of security is not present, the sense of security is falling, ladies and gentlemen. And what happens? – Nothing happens. They cannot protect the Austrian population. Almost daily we read in the newspapers – when it comes to the newspapers when it is allowed to report – about sexual assaults, rapes et cetera. This is a big problem, in which I also miss the cry of good people from the greens. Today, the green foreign-pure party has given a lot of the best – but this is not the subject of this debate. In the course of the next meetings, we will have plenty of opportunities to work out some points and also to tell people what the Greens are really for. What it's about me specifically in connection with this urgent question, about security, is that you don't want to take care of the security of the police. I should like to remind you that the terrorist Is open to the murder of police officers. What's going to be done? – There are no weapons passports for police officers, they are not allowed to protect themselves privately with a weapon, ladies and gentlemen, out of service. This is a scandal of the special class! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] I also explicitly refer to an article in the “Kurier” of the 10th century. September – that is, a very short time ago – in which it is entitled: ‘Police officers are disarmed by the authorities.’ It is not even permitted to apply for a passport to officials of the WEGA or Cobra Special Units. Not even an official of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism has received a passport of arms – this one has recently been rejected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bundeskanzler, what do you say to the police who want to protect our country, which is always thanked in Sunday's speeches, especially by colleagues Pendl? There is a lack of thanks, there is no concrete measure that you could implement in the government to protect the police. Finally, the Ministry of the Interior has announced to the National Police Directorates that there are concrete threat scenarios that the private police should protect themselves that they have particular importance in self-security. – This is the case in the Ministry’s letter to the National Police Departments. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You can't wipe this problem off the table, you can't close your eyes before this problem. Mr Bundeskanzler, the sense of security must be raised again! They were in Slovenia yesterday, at the same time a delegation from the Slovenian Parliament was here in exchange for the parliamentary group of friends, and we also discussed it. In 2015, there were 235 asylum applications in Slovenia, and there people are afraid that there is also great uncertainty in the population. How many asylum applications do we have in Austria? What did you do with colleagues in Slovenia yesterday? What's going to be ==References== Proposal for the asylum summit in Austria on September? So many questions are open. I can only hope that, at last, action and not only talk about real actions, concrete implementations will follow that something really is being done so that the sense of security in Austria is raised again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14673	Next, Mr Magistrate. Haider on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14694	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Not € 1 billion, as this Federal Government adopted last year, nor € 1.2 billion, as the Fiscal Council has estimated, will cost us the migration storm, but it will be more likely to be like a study by the Danube University Krems, which is well over € 2 billion a year, around € 10 billion by 2019. As a budget speaker, I already hold one thing: It was this federal government, it was SPÖ and ÖVP, which were broken under all Austrian laws and under the last time all European rules have been abolished by the completely unjustified opening of the border, the budget for years, and the whole without any democratic decision. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But not only the financial impact, but also the social impact will have to be borne by the coming generations. Record unemployment, foreigners' crime, Islamization, sexual assaults: All of this is due to your irresponsible policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even the Cardinal Schönborn, who is well-known for his restraint, warns – I quote – that “Europe is about to play its Christian heritage”. He asks: "Will there be an Islamic conquest of Europe? Many Muslims wish that and say: Europe is at the end.” This was said by Cardinal Schönborn “on Sunday in the St. Stephen’s Cathedral at a celebration for the ecclesial festival ‘Mariä Names’, which was introduced as thanks for the liberation of Vienna by the Ottomans 333 years ago.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, it is really high time to show that we are not ready to kneel before Islamism, that we are not bowing to Islamist terror, nor are we willing to continue to tolerate Islamist oppression symbols in the public. I therefore make the following request: [[Resolution]] [[Quoted print version removed]] The European Court of Human Rights has, by the way, confirmed and granted to the French State this ban on concealment, because the interests of the State are more important in this respect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, since I have reasonable doubts as to whether you have the mumm here today, this burka ban...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14783	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you would like to put forward the second motion for a resolution... [[Abg. Haider: I am now coming to the end and I am also putting forward my second motion for a resolution.]] Would you lend me your ear for a second? If you want to make the second motion for a resolution, you must do it now because the speaking time of the whole group will be exhausted in a few seconds. [[Calls and calls to representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That means I'm asking you to submit the request if you want to.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14826	Yes, Madam President, I was just about to come to the second motion for a resolution. I also come to it because I do not believe that the first will be decided. I would therefore like to make the second request: [[Resolution]] by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the prohibition of headscarfing at schools, universities and in the public service The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template which has a ban on wearing headcloths as an expression of Muslim faith for public servants, students in office buildings, universities and schools.” I have tabled these requests so that you can have the opportunity to ban these symbols of oppression from the public sphere at least.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e14879	Both motions for resolutions are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15063	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15085	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear representatives of the Federal Government! I do not want to comment on the motions for resolutions, because my group has already given an opinion on this, but I would like to make a few facts. I would like to bring not only beautiful things, but also facts that are facts. The fact is that the economy is weakening not only in Austria but also in the rest of Europe and that there are more and more people looking for work and need work. This puts tension on the labour market. We clearly know that the unemployment rate – job-seekers compared to employees – has the same level of 8.3 percent as in the previous year. However, we may also bring facts accordingly, and I would like to ask the opposition parties to take note of this as well: We have record employment in the second Republic. We have brought 426,000 people into employment over the AMS since the beginning of the year. Of these, 64 000 are under 25 years of age and – please do not forget! - 77 500 over 50 years old. The fact that the Federal Government, under Chancellor Christian Kern and the responsible Social Minister Alois Stöger, is ready to take on more money and more staff for more employment and more advice is, I believe, also an important and correct sign. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We have heard that for years!]] Now on a point that has not been mentioned so far: That is to say, there are numerous measures being taken. Legal measures are being taken to secure and increase employment and to combat unemployment. There is an industry in Austria that has been able to reduce unemployment and increase employment since the beginning of the year. There is an industry where since the beginning of the year the number of postings has fallen despite the free movement of workers and immigration problems – measured by the number of employees – in one of the most affected sectors, namely in the construction industry. Since January – against the normal trend in the labour market – how has unemployment been reduced and employment increased in the construction sector? It has succeeded because we were well advised to discuss and discuss these problems together. It has succeeded because we have been well advised to respond to proposals from the construction social partners and to take action in this difficult sector as an example. Many of you have been involved in the Committee and in other committees, which have succeeded in introducing more stringent measures for registration before start-up and for wage and social dumping. We have thus allowed for increasing controls. We have also unanimously adopted a new federal award law with the best bidder principle in this House for the construction industry. It can be seen that even without creating populist demands such as border, restricting, or risking the export economy, unemployment can be combated and the number of employees increased by turning on these many screws in accordance with the law. That would also be my appeal to you all for the future, ladies and gentlemen: that we do not reject this positive development in this sector, in this segment, but that we continue to take action, discuss these jointly, make constructive proposals and help people accordingly, because unemployment is practically the step into poverty. That is why it is important to combat them. I would like to thank the Federal Government for allowing it to extend the threshold regulation for two more years, as this will enable us to restore the conditions for local authorities to grant regional and local companies. I have the great hope – and I now also use the opportunity to mention it – that we can work together with the Federal Chancellery and the countries to send a large Federal Award Novelle on the journey, which deserves this name, because we still have many industries that we need to deal with. Finally, a word on the forthcoming novel of the trade order – to all who dream of the formula: More entrepreneurs are more jobs! –: Look at Germany and look at Holland, where you have released and liberalized the business so much, that there are now more construction contractors, one-person companies, for example, in Holland as employees on construction! From my point of view, a novelle of the trade order should arrange the trade and not weaken it. In this sense: on good constructive conversations! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15124	The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15146	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Safety and jobs are extensive issues that we can discuss. A high level of employment is, of course, what we all want. Full employment is the goal – the government knows that, as it does not need any calls from the opposition. In the past, the government has also put in place measures: a tax reform which has brought about the discharge of almost all taxpayers. Austria spends on active labour market policies compared to the third most in Europe. In the first half of 2016, there was a record of operations in Austria, for which the start-up package of the Austrian Federal Government contributed its share. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] In this respect, I also call a comprehensive agriculture and forestry, which is an important factor in the labour market. More than 200 000 people work on the Farms and the double number in the downstream and downstream areas. 7 billion € will be invested annually. There are also regional initiatives. In Salzburg, for example, head of state Haslauer initiated the talent check. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] This is a success model in which young people are best supported in the choice of education and careers. It is effective because the data on the labour market in Salzburg are positive. From August 2015 to August 2016, unemployment in Salzburg fell by 2.9%. In the European comparison, we are not in a bad position in Austria, especially when we look at youth unemployment. Nevertheless, every unemployed person is too much. It is therefore necessary to make efforts in the future to further improve the situation. The ÖVP wants discharge: gone away with bureaucratic obstacles, more personal responsibility instead of overregulation. Then we'll be even better in the future than we are now. As far as safety is concerned, there is hardly any country in Europe or even worldwide, which offers as much security as Austria. I ask you: Which country would you prefer to live, work and live in than in Austria? I thank the Minister of the Interior. Wolfgang Sobotka is consistent and represents a clear line. The issue of refugees and asylum is, of course, a challenge. When people are in distress, you have to help. Austria has often demonstrated this willingness to help: Czechoslovakia, Hungary crisis, Yugoslavia war. But I am going to take that into account, and I would like to say this to those who are in favour of an asylum policy without rules that believe that all people have to come to Austria – it is only if you are not overwhelmed, as a person, as a community or as a state. Therefore, without any rules, there is no limit. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We have the right to know who is in our country. And we know where our capacity for effective assistance ends, which is why the special regulation has clear limits. It is about the security of our own citizens. It is a question of helping where we are able to do so and of setting our own limits. That is why I support all the measures the government is taking to ensure security. It is, however, primarily necessary to respond to the international community of states and to intervene where there are or are causes of escape. Austria is a safe country with the highest quality of life, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this remains the same in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15222	Next, Mrs. Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15243	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eßl, I really wonder how positive you see the situation, you as President of the Salzburg Chamber of Agriculture, since we know that agricultural problems in particular are the most serious, dairy sector. In 1980 we had 136 000 dairy farmers, now it is 33,000. [[Onion of the Abg. Eßl.]] These farmers will push on the non-existent labour market, and you will sing and celebrate this system. I really can't understand you. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] And if we are always talking about creating jobs, my esteemed colleagues are talking about the government parties: It was you and it is you who are destroying jobs. Let's take the host as an example! We made about one and a half years ago a current hour on host mortality, in which we found that the host is frustrated due to countless conditions, outrageous – register, allergen regulation, smoking ban and and and – and wants to stop many of them. You said at the time: No, there's no such thing as that. Then, in February, when the crown was entitled: More and more innkeepers quit!, that was the confirmation of your missing economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, before we think about creating jobs, you are finally working for the small and medium-sized economy! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What we need is a framework for young people to be motivated to continue the parental operation, because many parents say: I do not want to do this to my child because it is facing more and more difficulties in this system. But these are parents who have a “good operation” – under quotation marks. We have another problem: We have a record migration. In this area, I would like to ask you to be more honest with the government: Honesty, when it comes to simply saying from the government bank, the issue must be resolved across Europe. – There is no European solution, because the countries are not willing to take up refugees. On the other hand, it is heard from Poland that the refugees are not willing to stay there, no more than in Hungary, in the other former Eastern bloc states. Do you at last have the courage to make a policy of honesty, to pursue a policy of honesty towards the voters, and put the facts and facts on the table! The cost of integration is always well spoken of. If one heard from the chief economist Hans-Werner's sense in Germany that we all have to work longer so that we can afford the refugees, I would also like to have a real discussion in Austria and also that the facts and figures are put openly on the table. On the topic of integration: There's also more honesty! The refugees today are not the workers of tomorrow, but in the optimal case of the day after tomorrow. If you look at Sanandaji's study of Sweden, you can see that after ten years 48 percent are still not integrated into the labour market. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that with the recipes of the past, we will not be able to solve the challenges of the future. We need more innovation, we need more brain narrowness and above all more honesty on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15322	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15345	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Strache made a real commitment to this urgent request today: We don't have any steamings. And thank God this debate has not become a blatant blaze, but it has shown that as a Parliament we are facing great, very great challenges together and that we are also facing these challenges so that the confidence of the Austrian population can be regained in politics where it has been lost. [[Abg. Steinbichler: To the government!]] [[Abg. That's right!]] The first step we are taking here today is the one – and I am very grateful to all the parliamentary parties for this – that we were able to define the roadmap together that we had the Federal Presidency election this year on 4. In December, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the It has already been shown that, in the middle of the election campaign – at least for two political groups here, although a candidate considers himself independent – one can also come up with common solutions. Second: I would like to make a few specific points. For us as the Austrian People's Party, it is quite clear that the basis for everything is a strong economic location in Austria. Therefore, in addition to the issue that is more concerned with the public, the way in which we deal with the refugee crisis – and this issue will continue to concern us for the next decades, it may remain a permanent issue if I look at the global developments – to focus on strengthening the economic location in autumn. In the area, the government managed a little before the summer with the start-up package. Mr Muchich has also mentioned the forthcoming innovation in the trade order. Negotiations are under way. - That's the one area. The other, honourable Member, has mentioned it, is to create a balance between those who are on the labour market and, because of a lack of skills, also because international competition no longer allows, low incomes, and on the other hand, the long-term security of our social security networks. I very much hope that the necessary movement within the government will also come about in order to create a reorganisation of the minimum guarantee. Compared to the date of the introduction of the 2009 minimum guarantee, we have a completely different situation. At the time, those were the whole, very large part, which only a part of their income from the minimum guarantee. Now the group of those who have to live completely from the minimum guarantee is growing; these are especially those who are new to us. I think it fair to distinguish between those who live in the country and those who come back to us in the future. This is a very important point for us next to the “cover”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Given the high level of unemployment that we have, it will not be possible – and the number of those who get asylum in Austria will be much, much bigger – that these people are taking a foothold on the labour market. Last year it wasn't even 10 percent. And then I have to be able to demand from those that they do non-profit work, and of course this cannot be rewarded for work on the labour market. You just have to see that. However, a contribution to non-profit work is necessary. I hope that these negotiations will be concluded positively. Third point, also concrete, because the accusation on the part of the liberals was that there is nothing specific: However, many have then dealt with the proposals made by our Foreign Minister. It has presented a concrete integration law, which clearly addresses the points that are necessary in order to meet this huge challenge.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15396	Mr Klubobmann, you must come to the conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15411	That was my conclusion, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15438	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15460	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Representatives of the Federal Government at the ministerial bank! High house! On the subject of security: Our domestic population has a legitimate right and also the right to security. In recent years, our security policy has been marked by the fact that police inspections have been closed and our army has been saved and sold out. The resultant consequence is a steadily increasing and legitimate uncertainty and fear of our population in the face of massive, uncontrolled entry and immigration thanks to a missed welcome culture of Merkel and then also Faymanns. The European Union's inactivity also contributes substantially to this uncertainty and to the Europe-wide threat situation. Once the EU acts, it acts falsely and negligently. For example, in the Pact with Turkey, which, in addition to unwanted visa freedom, allows us to examine refugees ourselves, as Turkey, according to its sole discretion, tells us who we have to take, apart from the billions and millions of euros that we can still pay for it. The coup filled in in Turkey has led to a demonstration of Erdoğan adherents in Austria, especially here in Vienna, which can also be understood as a demonstration of Turkey's own country, a threatening, foreign power capable of bringing violent demonstrators on the road in a very short time in order to endanger our security massively. Conclusion: Turkey has certainly not lost anything in the EU at this time. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The population of Austria is entitled to safety. With the change to Minister of Defense Doskozil and with the demands of Foreign Minister Kurz, first glimpses can be seen. In the field of security, account must also be taken of the workplace situation, which is characterised by a persistently high number of unemployed people. The wave of refugees and massive immigration contribute directly and indirectly to this highest number and a further increase in unemployment. An end to the wave of refugees cannot be expected in the near future. It is therefore all the more important to comply with the maximum limit of foreigners to be admitted without exception or, where appropriate, to decide on a general immigration stop. Numbering games, in whatever form, go beyond the interest of an uncertain population. Finally, in the sense of a secure Austria, I call for our borders to be closed, even if they are internal borders within the EU, and for them to be monitored, monitored and, in accordance with applicable EU law, to be sent back to persons without any right to apply for asylum here. Let us protect Austria, our borders and our culture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15508	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the votes. Debates of the European Parliament Alm, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the reduction of additional labour costs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleagues, on the establishment of EU camps in North Africa for those with a negative asylum notice. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Hübner, colleagues, on the termination of the European Union's accession negotiations with Turkey. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Alm, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to reducing the cost to untapped profits. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, ladies and gentlemen, on the urgency of the ban on the concealment of the face. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klubobmann Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on the prohibition of headscarfing at schools, universities and in the public service. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[15:34:26]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00142_d8e15629	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1813/A(E) to 1820/A(E) have been submitted at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 3:35 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
