ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e956	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 125. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Bacher, Mag. Greiner, Christ, Mag. Schönegger, ing. Hackl, port sticker, MA, Mag. Schrangl, singer, Mag. Rossmann and Dr. Hable. [[09:06:44]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e987	With regard to the parliamentary questions raised, I refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1020	This session will be transmitted live by ORF 2 and ORF III and translated simultaneously. The German translation of the UN Secretary-General's statement is on channel 1 of the receiver, which is translated into English on channel 2. We are going into the agenda with this. Welcome by the President
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1047	Mr. President of the Federal Republic Dr. Heinz Fischer! Dear Margit Fischer! Dear Chancellor Werner Faymann! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government and dear guests! They all have a premiere in Parliament today. For the first time, at a meeting of the Austrian National Council, we can welcome a high-ranking international personality as a guest. It is a great honor and personal pleasure to me that the Secretary-General is among the most important international organization today. We welcome you, Mr. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, and your wife! [[General condolences.]] The world community – and Austria is part of it – is facing immense challenges. We have the situation throughout the Arab region, we have the war in Syria with all its consequences. We are experiencing terror, climate change and a growing gap between the poor and the rich. No country in this world can solve only one of these problems alone, and yet we must observe a paradoxical phenomenon: The more complex the problems become, the stronger the centrifugal forces – forces that disperse the communities and weaken them. The consequences are re-strengthening nationalism and tendencies of de-olidarization. We must face this through dialogue by listening to each other and looking at the edge of the plate. This claim and our Austrian tradition is following this new parliamentary instrument of international dialogue, which we are going to live with today. Mr. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon! With the eyes of the UN, the world looks bigger. The elected representatives of the Austrian Parliament, the Austrian Federal Government and with them thousands of Austrians in front of the screens now give you their full attention. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I'll invite you now to make your statement. [[09:07:16]] Declaration by the Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon pursuant to § 19a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1104	Your Excellency, President Heinz Fischer! Mrs Doris Bures, President of the National Council! Dear Chancellor Werner Faymann! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr Josef Saller, President of the Federal Council! Honourable Members of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honour for me to be the first international guest to give a speech in this Parliament. Thank you for Austria's important contribution to the work of the United Nations and for being such a generous host country. Honourable Members! In the language of the international community, Vienna and Austria are equivalent to global action. Here, the Vienna Declaration of Human Rights, the Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Layer, even a pact on Pacts – the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties – and many other international agreements that are relevant to the whole world today were negotiated. (In German simultaneous interpretation:) Here the United Nations is holding major conferences on issues that are at the top of the global agenda. Vienna is a hub for the activities of the United Nations in areas such as nuclear energy, the fight against drugs and crime, industrial development and many other areas. This week, Vienna will host the Co-ordination Council of the Heads of the Organizations of the entire United Nations system, which will meet here at its half-yearly meeting. Thank you for your warm support! Only yesterday do we have the 20th. Anniversary of the existence of the organisation of the Treaty on the comprehensive prohibition of nuclear testing. For me, this occasion was a return home – 17 years after I held the chair in the Organization's preparatory commission. At that time I was an ambassador to my country. As it turned out, this should be my first and last ambassador post. Although this commitment was rather short, Vienna's passion and energy helped to determine my future CV, and it was the occasion for me to enter the service of the United Nations, this great organization. In particular, I was inspired by the pulsating art scene in Vienna. One of my initiatives was the organization of the first Austrian-Korean Philharmonic here in Vienna. It stands for the harmony between the two countries. I'm very proud that I was allowed to start this orchestra. Vienna will always be a Take special place in my heart. My wife and I are still closely connected with our friends back then. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honor for me that Mr President Fischer and his wife are here today. I made the acquaintance of President Fischer in his time as President of the National Council. Since then, he has been an inexhaustible counselor and wonderful friend to me. Now, before the completion of his second term as President of this great country, I would like to express my appreciation for the inspiring way in which he represented Austria as head of state both inside and outside. My wife and I spent one of our rare vacations in this city last year and opened the year 2016 in the circle of our Austrian friends and as guests at the unique Vienna New Year concert. I thank you for the outstanding contributions that Vienna has made to the United Nations and Austria to our world. Austria is an indispensable member of the world community, starting from the leading role in important United Nations organs to its peacekeeping forces in the field, from development cooperation to its commitment to human rights. Thank you for Austria's important contribution to the work of the United Nations. [[General condolences.]] - Thank you. (In German:) Excellence! Honourable Members of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen! We urgently need a world citizenship commitment to address the multitude of threats facing the world. Insecurity is spreading throughout the world. The inequality between people, between nations, is increasing. Women and girls suffer from terrible discrimination. Too many people are excluded in too many places, because of their race, their religion, their sexual orientation, their sexual identity, and other superficial differences. (In German simultaneous interpretation:) Violent extremists commit atrocities to divide and destroy communities. We must respond to this comprehensively, but with thought. The United Nations Action Plan on the Prevention of Violent Extremism is aimed at addressing the drivers of this threat. No country, no region, no matter how big or strong it is, can solve global problems alone. The United Nations is seeking common solutions. We need to show global solidarity. Excellence! Honourable Members! Over the course of my term as Secretary-General, I have stressed the importance of global problem solutions and the need for greater international solidarity. I have put emphasis on hearing the people who are at the front lines of human suffering. Above all, the children who are forced to flee from their homeland touch me. They remind me of the time when, as a six - year - old, I had to flee to remote mountains with my family during the Korean War. The refugee children of today are caught in the confusion of the greatest displacement crisis of our time. I have called everywhere, especially in Europe, on the leaders to respond with compassion and respect for human rights. Austria has demonstrated its solidarity throughout the years. In 1956, the country opened its borders to Hungary, which fled from the Soviet repression. During the Balkan wars in the 1990s, Austria was a refuge for thousands of traumatized refugees. And when last autumn a new wave of Ankämmlingen came from Syria and other parts of the Middle East, Austrians mobilized to extend a helping hand at the railway stations. I was very impressed about that. I called Federal Chancellor Faymann to express my appreciation for the compassionate way in which he guided the situation. We have a moral and legal obligation to help those who escape war, human rights violations and persecution. Our commitment to human dignity is filled with meaning when we prepare a warm welcome and give them accommodations and food to families who have risked their lives in search of peace. I would like to acknowledge the generosity that the people and governments of Europe have so far shown to migrants and refugees, not least here in Austria. But I am concerned that European countries are now pursuing an increasingly restrictive immigration and refugee policy. Such policies and measures send a very negative message regarding the obligations of the Member States under international humanitarian law and European law. I welcome the open discussions that are being held in Europe – also in Austria – on the issue of integration. But I am also very concerned about the xenophobia that is increasing within and outside Austria. All leaders Europe should live up to the principles that have led the Union so far. Divorce and marginalization hurt people and undermine security. If the arrival process is well controlled, the reception of refugees is a profit for all. These people are brave, resistant and forward-looking. They bring needed skills and energies into their new society. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I understand the difficulties and challenges and understand fully how challenging these things are. Austria has adopted an approach leading to a common action and the United Nations is seeking to bring about comprehensive solutions. ==References== September this year, the General Assembly of the United Nations will hold an important summit to address the issue of migration and refugees worldwide and point to joint responsibility. I invited Federal Chancellor Faymann to attend this summit in September. Next month, 23 and 24. May, we will convene the first World Summit on Humanitarian Aid in Istanbul, which will show a global commitment to ending the attacks on innocent people and on common values. The aim of the World Summit on Humanitarian Aid is to send out a message of support to the 125 million people in the world who are directly affected by crises. I trust that Austria will actively participate in these important events and confirm its proud tradition of openness and solidarity. This includes public development cooperation. I was encouraged when I heard from Foreign Minister Kurz that the Austrian government is planning a drastic increase in resources for its valuable public development cooperation. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Against the background of severe suffering, we see evidence that multilateralism works. Last week, on the International Mother Earth Day, we broke a record. At the United Nations headquarters in New York, 175 countries have the Paris climate the Convention on the Protection of the Sea. That was the highest number of countries that ever signed a contract on a single day. This builds on the historical vision of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which, with 17 goals, aims to ensure that all people can live a life in dignity and no one is left behind. This is a universal project. Even in the richest countries, there are still population groups living in the deepest poverty. Even the most technologically advanced countries can exploit the environment. And even the most stable democracies fight against racism, religious intolerance and other forms of oppression. I trust that Austria will set up a national plan for sustainable development objectives and will act internationally to contribute to creating a better future for others. The institutions of the United Nations, which are based here in Vienna, will all support you. I would ask you to speedily ratify the climate agreement. [[General condolences.]] President Fischer! Honourable Presidents and Members of Parliament! Excellence! Ladies and gentlemen! To put these ambitious plans into real progress, we need your help. You here in Parliament are the voice of the people. They are the representatives and the voice of the people. They may raise these concerns with the United Nations. And as a legislator, you can shape your society and the influence of Austria in the world. I hope you will make the sustainable development objectives the basis of Austrian development policy. I urge you once again to ratify the Paris Convention as soon as possible. 15 countries have already ratified it on the date of signature. I was very encouraged that many countries expressed their intention to ratify the agreement by the end of the year. We need 55 countries that account for 55 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in order to really bring this agreement into force. We can't waste time. I count on your support as a Member of Parliament. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a parliamentarian, you can play a crucial role in meeting dangerous anti-foreign discourses and creating confidence between population groups. They can also contribute to the strengthening of women. This is one of the top priorities in my office as Secretary-General and UN. Without strengthening 50 percent of the population, we cannot expect to fully exploit our potential. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS as well as representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] I am delighted to be with you just on the day of my daughter – the day you bring your daughters to work. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have a message for the girls in this audience and around the world: Be world citizens! Every one of you can make a difference. So again: Be world citizens! I count on your commitment and commitment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS as well as representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear speaker! Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! When I lived in Austria, I worked very hard, but I always had a feeling of ease, of comfort, which is because the Austrians are just so pleasant. I've never learned German perfectly, but there's a word I've mastered and that describes this feeling vividly. [[General cheerfulness and condolences.]] (in German:) It is difficult to translate this word into other languages, but you all understand that it expresses a sense of acceptance, warmth, kindness in social relations. For me lies (In German simultaneous interpretation:) in it the essence of Austria. I trust that you will build close and distant on your relations with the United Nations and with your neighbours and will take our global chance for a better future. This is our moral and political duty: to make this world better for all people, no matter where they come from, no matter what religion they belong, no matter what differences there are. We want to create human dignity, and the United Nations is committed to that. I am well aware of the criticism of the efficiency or effectiveness of the United Nations, but it is the only universal international organization – it builds on the UN Charter – in which it is about human dignity, peace and security in the world and through which sustainable development is to be created for all people. This is the organization you need and should support. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations, I stand up for this and commit myself until my last day of office to take this path together with you for the people of the world in order to make this world better. Thank you for your leadership, your leadership. - Thank you. [[General condolences.]] (In German:)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1344	Mr Secretary-General, thank you for your statement. We agreed at the Presidential Conference to hold a debate. All six club members speak with a speaking time of 5 minutes each after group strength. In this sense: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1371	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Dear Secretary-General, welcome to the Parliament! We are extremely pleased that this reform of our Rules of Procedure is inauguarated with your speech. I think this is the idea, which we introduced this reform of our Rules of Procedure. One of your predecessors, Mr. Secretary-General, Dag Hammarskjöld, once said: “The United Nations is an admittedly not perfect but irreplaceable instrument for the joint work of the nations in a more just and secure world order.” How true that is – for the United Nations are really anything but perfect, but they are our instrument, our important instrument to make the world more peaceful! You, Mr Secretary-General, have also listed the various conventions and work of the United Nations, and you have always personally improved this work of the United Nations. They found clear words, including decisions in the Security Council to be criticised, and they also consistently advocated a peaceful resolution of the conflict in Syria, for only a political solution can be a solution that will satisfy the interests of people on the ground – the people in their daily lives, the women, the children who have been persecuted, the ethnic groups such as the Kurds who are exposed to genocide there. There can only be a political solution in the fight against the terror of the "Islamic state". If I say that the United Nations is unfortunately not perfect, it is also about reforming the United Nations. It's about whether veto rights were in the 21st century. It is the right instrument in the 19th century. It is about how we can make the United Nations more transparent. As a neutral country in particular, Austria also wants to make a massive contribution, because the neutrality of Austria is the ground of our active foreign policy. That is why we are also very happy and proud that Vienna The seat is and will also remain UN-Sitz and once you have received an honorary mark from the city of Vienna, you have said: Nice to be home! The United Nations has 70 last year. Birthday celebrated, and unfortunately we must maintain that even after the 70. United Nations birthday 800 million people go to bed hungry daily, 700 million people do not have access to clean water, 60 million children do not receive education because they do not have a school in which they can go, and 2.5 billion people do not have adequate health care. When we look at this, we also know that the current issue of escape movements has to be combated in the causes. There are the SDGs, the Sustainable Development Goals, a topic, as well as the Paris Agreement with the aim of combating climate change, which we – I promise you – will ratify in time, and we will not only ratify it – even more importantly – but also put in place the necessary measures to prevent these threat scenarios from becoming reality for our world climate. Mister Secretary-General, I was you personally all the best, but even more: I was the United Nations all the best, because they are our tool. You said we should be global citizens. I think we are global citizens, and even more: I think we have to work hard so to be global politicians who made were global decisions every day. Thank you for being here, Mr. Secretary-General!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1426	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1447	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Excellence! We are deeply honored that you addressed our Parliament. Last year, we created the opportunity for outstanding personalities to speak here in the National Council plenary session. The fact that you were the first is a great award for the Austrian Parliament. Thank you for finding time for us despite your tight time corset! I am convinced that there is no organization in these days that is more irreplaceable, necessary and more important than the United Nations. The work of the United Nations is also supported by Austria accordingly. The state capital of Vienna has a very important place on the world map. Vienna is a hub of international diplomacy, here is often made world politics – you, Mr Secretary-General, 2007, said at the beginning of your term of office, when you visited Vienna at the time. In doing so, you have acknowledged our country's diplomatic efforts and stressed that a country of the size of Austria, a smaller country, can do great things for the state community. It has been the tradition of Austria since the Second World War to perform a bridge function and to join the State community as a constructive negotiating partner. We have succeeded in Vienna becoming a city in which dialogue takes place, in which international organisations are based, and it has always been successful that decisive talks have been held in Vienna for the peace of this world. We hope that, after the successful nuclear negotiations on Iran, a result will now be achieved in the Syria talks, so that people can return to their country. We have a role to play: Vienna is one of the four headquarters of the UN. In addition to New York, Geneva and Nairobi, as the United Nations headquarters, we have a very important task here when it comes to peace when it comes to better living conditions when it comes to ensuring that humanity prevails on this planet. Especially in difficult times like those that we are now experiencing – the refugee crisis, the shaking conflicts also in front of the gates of Europe – it is important that that organization, which is for peacekeeping, for conflict prevention and, most importantly, for the protection of human rights and thus for the hope of millions of people, is supported accordingly by Austria. The United Nations, often not financially equipped as it would be necessary to provide millions of refugees, trying to communicate in crisis regions, have a 2030 agenda for sustainable development. Austria has always done a fair share when it comes to the use of the blue helmets. More than 100,000 blue helmets are currently on the move in 16 peace operations worldwide. The Charter of the United Nations is still the compass for international cooperation, the compass for global solutions. We face a host of serious global political challenges that we can only solve together: Failed states, terrorism, climate change – all this is immediately noticeable and has an impact on us, but we are among those who can decide freely. With us, Parliament can decide what contribution Austria is making to ensure that the United Nations is strong United Nations. We should make our contribution to the following areas: Promoting human rights, the rule of law, strengthening international relations, including efforts in the field of nuclear and conventional disarmament. – These are all points for Austria since the 14th century. ==References====External links== Mr UN Secretary-General, you once said: “Austria has become my second homeland.” “I have left my half heart in Vienna and now come and see if it’s still there.” – I wish you would come and check it out many times. You're all right! Thank you very much for your leadership!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1502	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1524	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Mr UN Secretary-General! I can assure you that it is also an honor for us to be here today in the House, in the Austrian Parliament, and that it is necessary and important for us, as an essential and important member of the United Nations, to continue to support this peace-giving work. As the Republic of Austria, we have the basic tradition of being a neutral country. This neutrality is always important to us, and we are active as intermediaries in crisis and conflict spots. It is not for nothing that Vienna, as it has been mentioned today, is one of the UN's headquarters, and not for nothing we Austrians have always brought in to Blue Helmet operations, to peace missions of an international nature from the Austrian federal army, but also from the executive forces. In contrast to its hapless predecessor, the League of Nations in the interwar period, the UN, after the dramatic Second World War, finally has a very successful story, and it is important that it: In the face of all the warlords and unfortunately of God’s war developments in this world, there is a need to intervene peaceably. Many international conflicts and crisis situations have also been weakened thanks to the UN, but in many regions of the world there are conflicts and war. Even during the Cold War, the UN was ultimately a very important factor, but unfortunately we are also currently experiencing a new peak of a, if one wants to, cold war or a new cold conflict in Europe, when we evaluate the development in Ukraine, when we estimate that NATO is on the eastern European borders with a massive military device, that 700 kilometres from Austria's border is now a civil war in Ukraine, of which there is hardly anything left in the newspapers, and that there is also an escalation of a cold conflict between Russia and the Western world. It is therefore all the more necessary and important to keep in mind this crisis area and this conflict situation and to make it more mediating. And, of course, the UN has a very important task with its significance in the Middle East conflict region. There are many areas of conflict there. To date, we still have a conflict situation in the Middle East, although we are thinking of the State of Israel, which still has to experience that many Arab countries are not prepared to recognise its right of existence and are still partly proclaiming and proclaiming the destruction of the State. Therefore, much work is still ahead of us, and we hope to overcome the conflicts in these regions in a sustainable way and ensure lasting peace with mutual recognition and mutual respect. Worldwide, the UN is in operation to be peace-making and peace-keeping. Certainly it often takes a long time to achieve success, but also here what the famous German sociologist and economist Max Weber once formulated: a strong, slow drilling of hard boards, with passion and eye-size at the same time, so that you can achieve the corresponding success at some point. We have Austrians who have She also mentioned today, when it came to conflict situations and crises in our neighbourhood, great things were done. We were always a glowing example in this world, whether in the Czech crisis, in the Hungarian crisis or also in the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, when this state broke up in a cruel civil war. We have always helped up to our limit, and have always been a very helpful people. When it comes to overcoming current crises, we also want to be helpful, not a question, but, of course, we cannot overcome the conflicts or the international waves of migration in this world, which are based on different continents, whether from Africa or the Middle East, by solving these problems in Europe. We need to address the local causes, and it is therefore important that the UNHCR reception centres on the ground be supported accordingly by the European Union and that we resolve the local causes, resolve the conflicts on the ground and give perspectives to people on the ground so that, when the conflicts are overcome, they can ultimately rebuild their country even on the spot in the region. Warring conflicts, terrorism, mass migration, these are the developments of today's times, but I say consciously: In the end, we need to address these local problems in the regions. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] It is therefore also sad when we are currently experiencing that it is part-time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1587	Mr Klubobmann, you must come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1602	I come to the conclusion: We will, of course, continue to fully support and support this important role within the UN, but of course there or there also have critical other opinions, and it is also particularly important to allow different opinions, different positions and freedom of expression, in particular in the diversity of parliamentary democracies. I think this diversity is also a very essential factor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1633	Next speaker: Ms. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1654	Dear Excellency! Mr. Secretary-General, I would like to start with some personal words. I was really deeply impressed by your speech, by your touching engagement, your sense of humour. Now I can understand a little bit better what made the commitment of Paris come true. So it's your personal success. Thank you so much for that. [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS.]] Estimated members of the Federal Government! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up two aspects from this impressive speech, particularly the problem, the refugee situation, but also the hopeful issue, namely climate change and the Paris international agreement. For two years the number of conflicts and the resulting number of people who are displaced and seek protection have increased dramatically worldwide. It's over 60 million people now. The dramatic situation of many of these people shows us the urgency with which the whole world of the global humanitarian question must ask itself financially. The economic need for humanitarian assistance is increasing annually. I think the need has doubled since 2012. This is an issue that concerns all of us as a community of states, and one that we should also devote ourselves to. As a representative of the Green Group, we expressly welcome the World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul, which was scheduled for the first time in May. This is very important as a global call for action, both to states and to civil society. We have great hopes in this summit, we hope for new global approaches to the handling of refugees, refugees and internally displaced people, as well as new approaches to respond to long-term conflicts, but also to invest in prevention, to better coordinate humanitarian aid and development cooperation, and above all to focus on longer-term, predictable funding. For us as a Green Group, the protection of people must be put in the foreground and international humanitarian law must be strengthened, and we very much hope for this summit. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to stress that I was very pleased that you also spoke out on Austrian television yesterday and advertised for more solidarity in the European countries. In the meantime, the question of refugees has also become a matter of solidarity, a European social policy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We are fully committed to a European solution, would like to review the Dublin system and to know a solid and responsible system. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] Austria has already done a lot, also as a venue for foreign and peace policy at several levels. This is also a very important contribution to peace efforts. However, I would like to address three critical points, which are always the starting points for conflicts here in the House. Unfortunately, Austria still plays a modest role in terms of development cooperation. We have taken a small step further, but we are still far from what the United Nations has set as a goal for the States. This is being discussed again and again here in the House, and I think that we should consider this question in detail once again today, including for the future financial plans of the Republic of Austria. On-site assistance is also worthy of improvement from an Austrian point of view. In our view, we have contributed a little to the World Food Programme in recent years, but we can make a lot more in this area. From our point of view – from my point of view – the contributions to the child assistance work and to the UN's refugee assistance work are at least worthy of improvement as far as the Austrian contribution is concerned. But one thing gives hope – and I would like to talk briefly about it at the end – is the Paris climate agreement. You have to imagine this: These 20 years of negotiations, this difficult starting point – and then it will actually be done! This is the turning point to a new era and has also shown that this multilateral system of the United Nations can work, although it has often been criticized and already been promised. The Paris Agreement is a success for climate change, but also for multinational cooperation. So many parties have gathered there – and now this turning point to a new policy that can improve the livelihoods of many millions of people around the world! We made a request here yesterday and we hope for the early ratification of Austria as well; we do not want to wait for the European Union. And I would also like to remind everyone of your speech today that we are playing a pioneering role here and actually ratify this Paris Agreement of Hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1730	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1752	Dear Secretary-General! It's great to have you here. You are my mayor, you are our mayor. If we are global citizens, you are our major – and I think it is tragicly important to have a major. Thank you, Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! I think it is important that we have a mayor in our global village, because of course a mayor is more than just a function: It's a symbol! It's a symbol that we belong together that we're together that we're connected here. I believe that understanding of this is the basic prerequisite for everything that can then be followed by good policy that we can and should do in national parliaments, in international organisations, in the United Nations. I like to stand by the balcony in the evening, look into the sky and then think often: [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Fetter: Armed trees!]] We're just a drop of time. There are millions of galaxies up there, each with billions of planets – and we cannot leave them. We only have this one planet, and we are committed to common ground here. That's our duty, that's our chance. That's where the Rocky Horror Picture Show always comes in my mind. – I don't know, do you know the Rocky Horror Picture Show? [[towards Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] This is a musical, actually one of the generation of my parents, not my generation. There's the Criminologist, that's the narrator, and he analyses: "And crawling on the planet's face, some insects called the human race. Lost in time, and lost in space... and meaning.” I think if I then take a high name on one of these planets and look down on Earth, then it is actually true that this analysis from outside is probably true: [[general hustle and bustle]] [[Abg. Schieder: There’s a light!]] We move here as a human race on the planet, loose in time, loose in space, loose in meaning. We're gonna hit each other, we're gonna kill each other. Last century: 120 million murdered, killed by man. – 120 million people killed by man in the last century! Of course, the UN is, the United Nations is an inheritance of this terrible century. The ideas were already there before. A thinker of the liberal state, the liberal democracy is Immanuel Kant, he formulated this already in the 18th century. In his writing, “To Everlasting Peace. ” He dreamed of eternal peace, he dreamed of understanding international law. That was also one of the foundations of the United Nations Charter. The question is: Can we do something if people beat, cut, kill? From time to time, one also doubts in these days, in these years, and sometimes one draws hope, as in Paris. I think loose in meaning is the starting point. If we can create meaning, if we can create common sense, we can act as well. Common sense means: human dignity. We are born free and equal to human dignity. If we all share this as human beings, then we have won. I was with the Indonesian students in 1998. We have demonstrated together against the dictator. That day, students disappeared. They were fed sharks, we learned afterwards. I understood at that time that there is no common meaning anywhere on the planet. We need to protect human dignity, and then we can find good solutions. I was in Sarajevo in 1997, at the U2 concert, along with 20 000 soldiers, with the peace team at the stadium. Bono Vox sang “Miss Sarajevo”. Yes: Something's always going on! And that's my wish: That something is going on in Syria too. Mr Secretary-General, I do not understand that we are no longer bringing together, together with the UN, with the European Union, with other institutions. We need a flight ban zone. There are seven million refugees in the country, there are five million refugees outside the country. We need a retreat, we need confidence, a Marshall plan, reconstruction for the Middle East. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] – I conclude, Madam President. We need to create meaning for these people so that they also have a perspective on the ground. This is my urgent wish, and I wish you all the best of it as my Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1831	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1852	Madam President. Mr Secretary-General! Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If we let the UN review take place, then, I believe, we all agree on something, namely: We want more! Of course, the UN has achieved great success, and your efforts have also been very often crowned by success, but ultimately we want more! We want more, therefore, because if you look at the world in this way, you notice that the world community needs to be able to do more. We have a situation where 60 million people are fleeing from over a hundred war conflicts. We have a situation where 500 million people want to leave their homes because they simply find catastrophic living conditions on the spot. And we have the situation – and that is the worst in my view – that every year 6 million children in the world are starved under the eyes of the UN, under the eyes of the world community – and that is not to say! When we look at what we expect from the UN, the following is important: We're all UNs. The UN is the world community and we belong to this world community. That is why every demand we make for the UN is at the same time a call for ourselves. When it comes to conflicts in the world, especially now in Syria or Iraq, Libya and in many other regions, we see that many in this world community do not play according to the rules we have given each other together. We have established in this world community the rule that we want to work together against hunger and, above all, against war. Unfortunately, there are some – and unfortunately there are also the United States – who do not comply with the rules that the whole world considers to be their backyard and do with the power they have, including the UN, whatever they want to do. Conflicts in Iraq, Libya, Syria and in many other parts of the world have resulted from the fact that large powers have exerted their influence in order to gain on-the-spot benefits. Unfortunately, the 100 000 dead, which resulted, were no matter what those who made the decisions. That's where the UN should, if the world community should, we all have to step on the plan and say: Until here and no further!, for war is not the continuation of politics by other means. Unfortunately, many believe that, but that is not the case. What we want is politics without war. We don't want political negotiations to fail if a regime doesn't fit anyone on the ground, then you march in, you throw bombs and you just take all these problems that we're experiencing now, because if you look at the flows of refugees, they're exactly coming out of such conflicts. Syria is really a world war, only that not the whole world is fighting there, but it is a substitute war of the whole world. Everyone has their spheres of influence there, everyone has their interests there. A military advisor once told me: A conflict where you don't deliver a ammunition for three months has ended automatically. Especially in Syria, the conflict would have ended after three months, not from Turkey would all possible countries have their interests there by providing weapons to one or the other. There we are in the area of terrorism. It always means we have to fight terrorism. – Yes, we must, but against terrorism on every side. There are no good terrorists. That is why it is also not acceptable, not from the UN, that the US specifically equip terrorists on the ground, to train them for their purposes. That's not all right. That's why: The UN is important, the UN has done great things, but we want more. Since we are all part of the UN, since we are all part of this world community, we must also demand more of ourselves. That is why we must also speak plain text, and we must say to all those who play against the rules that implement and exercise their interests on the back of others: Until here and no further! We want to live in a world where peace exists and where the problems we all have in common are solved. I expect that from the UN, I expect all of us to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-04-28-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1907	I would like to thank all the club chairmen for their contributions. I would like to thank you, Mr Ban Ki-moon, for your statement. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council will take place at 10.15 a.m. The communication and the agenda shall be pending. Thank you very much. This meeting is closed.
