ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3077	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a nice good morning and open the 158. Meeting of the National Council. For today's meeting as prevented, MEPs are reported Krist, Grillitsch, Dr. Nachbaur, Mag. Johannes Rauch, Mag. Zakostelsky, Kickl, Mölzer, Ing. Schellenbacher, Strache and Gessl-Ranftl. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3108	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Mag. Jörg Leichtfried will be represented in the afternoon by the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Alois Stöger. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in a Member State of the European Union as follows: Federal Chancellor Mag. Christian Kern is the State Secretary Mag. Muna Duzdar, Federal Minister of the Interior. Wolfgang Sobotka is represented by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter, Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics Vice-chanzer Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner by the State Secretary Dr. Harald Mahrer. I announce that this meeting will be held from 2 p.m. to 1 p.m. ORF III will be handed over live, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.45 p.m., will be sent in time. [[09:07:25]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3193	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3324	The debate on points 1 to 12, 13 to 19, 20 to 27, 28 to 30, 32 to 36, 37 and 38 and 39 to 41 of the agenda is proposed. Is there any objection to this proposal? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda with this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3349	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 101, FPÖ 94, Green 79 as well as NEOS and Stronach per 41 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club per 21 minutes; in addition, their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the time now proposed. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:09:12]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1330, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act, the General Pension Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, and adopts an Pension Insurance Commission Act (SVÄG 2016) and the Question No 1859/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues regarding a federal law with which the General Social Insurance Act, last amended by BGBl. 75/2016, amended, as well as Question No 1303/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues regarding a federal law with which the General Social Insurance Act, last amended with BGBl. 118/2015, amended (1429, e.g.) 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1349, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (1430 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Pension Act 1965, the Bundestheaterpensionsgesetz and the Bundesbahn-Pensionsgesetz (1431 d.b.) 4. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the War Victim Care Act 1957, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Vaccination Act and the Crime Sacrifice Act (1432, e.g.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Federal Law concerning a law with which the ASVG (BGBl. No. 189/1955), as last amended by BGBl. II No 434/2013, amended (1433 d.a.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1641/A by Mrs Claudia Angela Gamon, Mr MSc(WU), on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act (1434, e.g.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 351/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the cancellation of compulsory insurance in statutory pension insurance due to employment in pension (1435 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues regarding a federal law with which the General Social Insurance Act, last amended with BGBl. 75/2016, as well as the Income Tax Act, as last amended by BGBl. 77/2016, to be amended in favour of people with lowest pensions (1436 e.g.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion for a resolution (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues regarding a federal law, with the Labour Constitution Act, last amended with BGBl. 71/2013, amended (1437, e.g.) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 960/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on ‘No pension adjustment on the ASVG border’ (1438, e.g.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1354, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Health and Social Assistance Act (1439 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1342, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, with which the prisoner of war compensation law, the army compensation law, the crime-offering law, the Federal Law on the grant of federal grant to the association of Volksdeutsche Landsmannschafts Österreichs, the Social Ministry Service Act and the Federal Disability Act (1447 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3549	We now come to points 1 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. I also welcome the Minister of State. Mr Neubauer came to speak. I'll set you five minutes' speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3583	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians in front of the televisions and here in the hall! Welcome to the largest alms distribution for pensioners in the Austrian Parliament! Pensioners are to be fed down with an inflation adjustment of 0.8 percent. Because this seemed a little bit small to some – even in the SPÖ, like Mr. Bundeskanzler – because of an upcoming choice for the pensioners, one has drawn a expensive electoral sugar from the sleeve, namely the so-called pensioners of the century. The Pensionist's centenarian brings the people in addition 7 to 8 € net per month. That is, in total, the people who have worked for forty years and longer in this country who have rebuilt this republic after the war get 14 € more. Whoever is still well aware of this, should press the conscience. I don't think I'm good at this. We from FPÖ have always made our position clear in recent weeks and months. We have joined the position of the Senior Confederation and the Austrian Senior Ring, which meant: 1.3% compensation would be justified. These 1.3 percent would be more than 0.8 percent and the hundreds. You hear and marvel: According to the senior pensioner's calculations, this scheme, which would have cost pensioners for the next few years, would have been less expensive. That means the pensioners get less and the taxpayer needs to get even deeper into the bag, ladies and gentlemen. This is bizarre, that is to say, and the Republic cannot afford to do so either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, instead of the 0.8 percent plus 100 € 1.3 percent and the introduction of a minimum pension of 1 200 €, we have requested from the Freedom Party. It's always said that you can't afford that. I recall the statements made yesterday by Mr Katzian, who said he could imagine €1 700 as a minimum income. – Well, then we don’t have to hide with our 1,200 €. I think that the problem with this regulation, which is now to be decided, also has a great weakness that, for example, luxury pensioners also benefit from it. This group includes many, such as the presidents of the National Bank, who, at €30 000, are just like that. These are temporary, and former Federal ministers like Social Minister Hundstorfer, who can enjoy their lives with a pension of over €10,000. Also these pensioners get their 100 €, and we find that unfair, dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] They are always talking about social justice by the Socialist Group. Where is social justice when empires become richer and richer? Money flows from the Austrians to the foreigners? According to Mr Felder, who sits in the Fiscal Council, we have made €5.7 billion for people who came to us last year, €5.7 billion, and we complain that the pensioners could get €100 or €200 million too much. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to give you an example of the fact that the Federal Government is saving the wrong place and does not want to attack its own grain, namely the social security schemes in Austria. We pay 19 social insurances, there are a total of 116 service cars. It is €120 million to be paid to computer costs, €15 million for staff and €558 million in administrative costs. In total, this is almost €700 million. This is not a question of savings, because it would be about your own grains, which of course you do not want to attack. I therefore make the following request on the part of the Freedom Party: [[Quoted print version removed]] We simply find it unwarranted that this regulation not only goes to the ASVG border, but also that those above the ASVG limit should also receive the hundreds. I'm looking for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3673	Mr President, you must nevertheless, even if it is equally true, read the amendments because they do not appear in writing. I would therefore ask you to read point 2 and point 3.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3688	So: ‘2. In Article 2, the following is added in Section 11(4) of the Federal Theatre Pension Act: “The proper application of § 700a ASVG does not apply to claims under the Federal Theatre Pension Act, which are higher than the ASVG-Höchstpension.” 2. In Article 3, paragraph 15 of Article 60 is added as follows: “The proper application of § 700a ASVG does not apply to claims arising from the Federal Railway Pension Act which are above the ASVG maximum pension amount.” I'm looking for your support again.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3735	Thanks a lot. This amendment has now been tabled in accordance with orderly procedure and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3810	Mr Spindelberger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3833	For me, it is strange for Mr Neubauer to produce himself and speak of the alms for pensioners. I can still remember this, because for so long I have been in the House, when the black and blue government granted the pensioners once and for all to the pensioners. [[Abg. Schimanek: You can also be failed!]] We have managed to ensure that there is a statutory inflation tax plus this 100 €. [[Abg. New builder: 50 years later!]] I also remember very well that the then president of the National Council Andreas Khol, when it came to increasing pension contributions, said: We now have the task of reducing the excess of pensioners who have granted them the red Social Ministers. I say: We are now making social policy, quite contrary to the way you have done it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You know very well that since March of this year, the Federal Government has been very intensive in dealing with the reform path of pensions. The fact is that the Federal Government is trying to keep workers in employment longer. That is why there are also rules that we will decide today that those people who work voluntarily beyond the age of regular pension – that is, women after 60. ==References====External links== Year of life – get positive incentives. That means: In addition to the suspension bonus of 4.2 percent per year, the service provider's contribution and the employee's contribution will be reduced to half for three more years. Similarly, a Commission reform on long-term pension insurance will be launched in the legislative projects currently under way and to be decided. I believe that this step was urgently needed. We all know that there have been enough criticisms about the previous composition alone due to the order of magnitude. I think there were 43 people in total, with the additional experts. The Commission was no longer capable of action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Especially Social Minister Stöger has not only reorganised the composition of the body, but has also expanded the competences of this Pension Insurance Commission, because it is precisely this body that should provide valuable data and analyses for all of us, how pensions develop in the future. This means that those members who will be sitting in this Pensions Commission will have to draw up medium-term opinions on the conduct of statutory pension insurance and on the development of costs also in respect of officials of the federal, state and local authorities. This is also new, because officials' pensions have not been taken into account so far. [[Complementary of the Abg. Aubauer.]] However, I would like to add another essential point, which concerns persons who have worked for at least 30 years, but because of their low income, mostly women who were part-time employed, have received only a small compensation allowance so far. This will change in the future when these persons will receive a special compensatory allowance rate. In my opinion, Mr Alois, Mr Social Minister, it is an essential step to avoid poverty in the future, because if the allowance is increased from € 833 to € 1,000 in the future for this group of persons, it can be seen more than that. I think one can say that this policy bears a social-democratic manuscript.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3908	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e3929	Good morning, Madam President and Mr Minister. I do not know whether Mr Neubauer or others of us here in the hall can quickly retrieve the amount that a woman in Austria receives as a middle pension. Maybe we remember: There are 872 € – 872 € available to a woman in the middle of Austria to get out for a month. [[call to the FPÖ.]] If we consider this a little more precisely, then we insist that it is quite, very difficult to realize that additional pleasures, a visit to the coffee shop, but also gifts for the grandchildren with this amount are actually impossible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I want us to keep this woman's image in mind because it's not about a minority in Austria. No, of 2.3 million pensions in Austria, one million pensions are below €900. This debate is about those people in Austria who are at risk of poverty, but also about those who receive up to €1 700 pension and actually have little purchasing power, can invest little or can hardly afford a worthy life. I think – and I can then join my previous speaker in new builder – that the hundreds solution is not the smartest, I must say, Minister! [[Abg. Loacker: Very carefully expressed!]] We have made other proposals in the Committee, which have unfortunately not been taken into account. I also believe that this is not a sustainable solution either. This will be spent once, but this will help those who get it right now, whom I have already spoken about, namely those who really have little to live. For these, a hundred in the money bag makes a real difference – and that is what this people are afforded to them. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact that there are a lot of people in Austria who do not even feel this, who pass a hundred to the account and do not even notice that this is there, that is the other side; and I would also like more from you, from ÖVP and SPÖ as government parties, that we are progressing more quickly as regards the luxury pensions and the partly insolently high pensions that exist in Austria. [[Call:]] But we have to separate this from each other; and I really wish we were more committed to taking a second step in reducing these luxury pensions. I miss it and expect it to happen at least next year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] I would remind you, however, that the NEOS and the FPÖ who have just complained were not involved in this first step. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: At the incision...!]] [[Mr Loacker, Mr Scherak and Mr Pirklhuber.]] They didn't help. We have contributed to the first step. Meanwhile, the judgments show that we can continue to be on a safe path; and we are also willing to continue this safe path. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You have given the luxury pensions the way!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I would now like to speak again to those who have very little at age. [[New call for tender of the Abg. New builder.]] Mr Commissioner, perhaps you will listen briefly to me. I would like to return to those who have very, very little and have not benefited from the tax reform this year. This was one of the two proposals that we made to promote people who are affected by poverty in old age: We all know that the tax reform brought a tax credit to those who are, as it were, below the tax limit, about €1,050 grossly per month and thus fall under the negative tax. These were favoured by the tax reform in so far with a social security credit. But those who have been forgotten are the many men and women who have to live by the compensation allowance, so the so-called minimum pensioners. These are still 215,000 people here in the country. We would have said that precisely these people should also benefit from this tax credit and receive this 110 €. Unfortunately, this request has not been supported by the Committee. A second proposal that we have made would have been the smarter solution, and I would at least have liked to discuss it, Mr Wöginger. You have rejected it quite vehemently and immediately. It would have been a more intelligent solution to the inflation adjustment, to this one-off tax pension credit, which I do not consider to be so much, namely the introduction of a staged system which is more sustainable and socially just. This would have meant that we raise pensions up to €500 by 5 per cent and all that lies above it by €25 per month. This would have cost a little more, but would have brought more purchasing power over the year and actually brought people noticeably something in the pocket of money in everyday life. At the ASVG maximum pension of €3 100, the 0.8 percent we now have would have cut off on inflation. I would have liked us to discuss such things more constructively. Nevertheless, we prefer to participate in solutions for the people who are affected and have little to live, and not only to criticise, as it were, the whole time, but to make little constructive contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4057	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4078	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to say that we are now negotiating 27 points in three blocks and that half of them are legislative matter, that is, templates that are far-reaching in terms of pensions, pension adjustment and also our agriculture, the need for a little discount for our farmers. [[Abg. Loacker: At the end of the year he... will be diligent!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] So to talk about the fact that nothing goes on and nothing is done, I reject it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm dealing with three points, first of all with the results. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's so basic what you're saying here!]] – Mrs Colleague, can you listen to me?- Oh, my God! You wouldn't be hurt to listen even once! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It is fundamental, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Always this anti-female!]] The result of the pension summit is today reflected in the Social Insurance Amendment Act; and I believe it is necessary that we also explain to our fellow citizens what is being decided here. First of all, people who have a minimum pension and 30 years of contributions have been paid into the pension system for 30 years, instead of €883 1 000 in the future. According to the principle that benefits should be paid, the minimum pension will be adjusted accordingly. This is necessary because these people deserved themselves because they have worked for 30 years and paid into the system, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] We introduce a suspension bonus, which follows exactly the following principle: Those who work longer must also receive a significantly higher pension. The suspension bonus of 4.2 percent applies to women aged 60 to 63, to men aged 65 to 68. Since social security contributions are also halved, this means for workers as a whole, it remains more in the wallet; and for the service providers, the additional wage costs are reduced. In order to criticise the measures, a number of arguments must be put together, because this is a proper measure. It is true that longer work will be made more attractive and that a much higher monthly pension will come out if you choose this model, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're expanding the pension division. That has already been done, but in a rather unattractive form. We extend the pension division, which means that you can transfer up to 50 percent of the pension contributions to the pension account of the wife or partner – mostly the men. We are now extending this to seven years per child, a total of 14 years; and this is a proper measure, ladies and gentlemen, for it must be worth something to us when women and men are devoted to child rearing. This is a social policy issue, and we appreciate this measure by the EIA, which is why we decide today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are improving – and for this I have spent months with some colleagues from these series – the billing of the childhood education periods of children born before 2005 and for all women born after 1955. You don't need 15 years of contributions now, so you have a pension claim. So far, 15 years of work have been needed, now you still need seven years of work and now you can fill up the remaining eight years with child training periods. This is a major improvement for some thousand women who have devoted themselves to child rearing for a long time and who have not brought these 15 years together. That is the right family policy and social policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, we also implement sustainability measures for our pension system. The following comments were made: We reduce the Pension Insurance Commission to one third of the members, i.e. twelve members entitled to vote – up to now it was over 30 – because it is necessary to make this body effective. And the second is that there really are experts there – even international experts now belong to this body advisoryally – so that we can make our pension system sustainable. We know the demographics, and we also know the challenges we face in this area. It is our concern by the People's Party that this is now also enshrined in law, because we are also guilty of subsequent generations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One word for the pension adjustment: We have 0.8 percent and a single payment of 100 €. We have also had one-time payments in the past. I personally think it is the second best solution, but we have already decided on several single payments here. [[Abg. New builder:... not the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who said...!]] It's how it is! We also need to ensure and guarantee a pension adjustment for pensioners. It is necessary to increase purchasing power also in this area, therefore we support this compromise: 0.8 percent plus 100 €. [[Abg. Neubauer:... happened!]] A final note on farmers' social security discounts: Ladies and gentlemen – and this is especially true of the rural population in particular – it will become quite clear, and in recent days the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has proved its commitment to agriculture. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Yes, yes! Yesterday...!]] We have amended a proposal that now guarantees farmers 53 percent of social security contributions from the last quarter. Our Presidents, Auer and Schultes, as well as the entire ÖVP Group, have committed themselves. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] You have to hold here who the agriculture in this house is at the heart of: It is and remains the Austrian People's Party!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4277	Mr Mag. Loacker's next word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4298	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! After this jubilee by Mr Wöginger, I would like to extend my congratulations elsewhere; my congratulations goes to the Freedom Party. You have managed that these two parties are already training with you for a coalition and are putting themselves in position. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Colleague, with an absolute majority, there is no need for a coalition partner!]] They look at Jörg Haider's gift distribution policy. First of all, a hundred people are distributed to the pensioners, and so that this gift can work, one cannot say, of course, that there are the small pensioners who, as Mr Schwentner correctly said, have available as a woman on average € 850 or at all – men and women – on average € 1 150 pension; no, one gives it all, one pours out the gifts. What you have not looked at at Haider is that you have to give such gifts of choice, of course, so that it really attracts. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... Farmers schnapsen!]] To ensure that the idea is carried out so badly, one has set these hundreds tax-free. If he were taxed, the small pensioners would have him grossly for net, and the big pensioners would have to tax him; but no, they would be tax-free so that even the luxury pensioners with €5,000 to €7 000 would have the hundreds net. If the Minister tells us: Yes, we have seen that the double and multi-pensionists only get the hundreds once!, this shows the social balance of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yes, these hundreds wanted the Social Democrats, and the ÖVP has said that they also want to have a gift for their clients, and first of all it has suggested that farmers can pay social security contributions for a quarter – but only the smaller ones! That would also be logical, because if someone ran a farm with steep hammahd at the end of the valley, then this agriculture has a low unit value, the farmer pays little social security and then he would have benefited accordingly – but no! There were the fets flying in the peasantry, then the big farmers, the agricultural magnates excited themselves: We also want something!, and now all farmers get 53 percent of a quarterly contribution. I would like to know how Members Auer, Prinz, Schultes, Sieber, Schmuckenschlager and Eßl personally benefit from this amendment to the bill. – I like to know! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens as well as the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Deputies Pirklhuber and Steinbichler: Good question!]] [[Abg. New builder: Is there partiality?]] So, as you are doing, I think it is immoral to a degree that I cannot put it unpunished in words here! You get into the pockets of people who work, pay taxes and social security contributions, you grab into the pockets of the next generations, and with this foreign money you want to buy the goodwill of your clients. People with such a moral claim would not even buy a pencil in private life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schools.]] Now what Mr Wöginger wanted to sell us as a pension reform: We better count child rearing times. We have to pay less pension insurance contributions if we work longer, and we get more – so: pay less and get more! If you have worked for 30 years, you will receive at least €1,000 by means of the compensatory allowance rate. Now you tell people who are over 80, often over 90 years old, that it is enough to work 30 years to get 1 000 €. I can now earn 500 € for 30 years and receive 1 000 € pension afterwards. That's not fair, and this money will take away the next generation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4403	Excuse me, honourable Member. I don't know which Members it was: Was it you? - No, I don't. [[Intercom calls at FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach.]] Member of the European Parliament, for 'neoliberal indifference' as an intermediate call I give you a call for order. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Call to the Greens: “Neoliberal” is true!]] Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4450	Thank you, Madam President. What Mr Wöginger tried to sell as a reform to us was also a reform of the Commission on long-term pension insurance, KOLAPS. It is now being re-baptized and is now called the Pensions Commission, ALKO. From KOLAPS to ALKO – that means pension reform in this Federal Government! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a stupidity!]] What actually happened: The replacement rates go back, the pensioners have even less for survival each year, and what you produce is long-term poverty, but instead of fighting it, you'd rather generously distribute the hundreds!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4489	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4516	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are once again launching a number of changes in the field of pensions which directly benefit people. I also start with the hundred for the pensioners, who will maintain the purchasing power of the pensioners. It is the one-time payment of € 100, which will be paid out and will pay people who will be entitled to a pension in December 2016. It is paid together with the December pension, and the following is very important: She's tax-free. That means the hundreds get them really gross for net. Werner Neubauer, I really listened to you and quickly picked out numbers: In 2001, for example, there was no social democracy in any government, there were others in the government – this is just an example! – at that time, there was inflation of 2.7 percent, a pension increase of only 0.8 percent and no single payments. [[Abg. New builder: We have 2016! You'll notice!]] So, if you are social, you can really see the measures we have here in the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will also find another milestone with this government template: It is the increase in the compensatory allowance rate for pensioners from own pension insurance with at least 30 years of contribution. A number of previous speakers have already said: The minimum pension will be increased to € 1,000. [[Abg. Neubauer: This has long since become due!]] Furthermore, there is also the creation of a legal right from professional rehabilitation. This obligation in the event of existing or threatening disability or incapacity to work is also intended to enable the person concerned to return to employment. The principle Rehabilitation before retirement is a central approach to increasing the actual retirement age. One could still bring here for hours examples of how well and socially the government has acted on its legislative proposals, and you can see, ladies and gentlemen, these are all very good innovations, and I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs very much. [[Abg. New builder: I don't believe that!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4606	Next is Mrs. Ing. Dietrich in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4627	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Col. Wöginger, it really honors you if you say that having children must not be a disadvantage in society. It must not be a disadvantage if one is to raise children and to retire later; and I am really surprised that the ÖVP is proposing that child rearing times be up to 4. Year of life – regardless of whether it overlaps with the second child, whether you have twins – is not finally taken up and supported. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] It would be a measure to strengthen families, to animated women, to have children without then landing in the poverty trap at the end of the day. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] [[Further calls and calls between representatives of the ÖVP and Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the Social Insurance Amendment Act, some positive points are implemented. One of them is that someone who works longer, who pays 30 years in this system, also receives more at the end of the day. It is a great approach, a right approach, to raise the compensation allowance to € 1,000. We support that. We also support the right to rehabilitation, this is also a useful access, and in our view it is good to start trying to keep older workers in employment longer by this bonus rule. This is something we can agree with, although we do not agree with the overall package on all points – but that is exactly what democracy is all about. Ladies and gentlemen, the point that emotionalizes many is the hundred. We can afford it to all those who really don't know every day how to finance their lives because they have so little because the pension is so low because the rents are so high because shopping is almost no longer financeable, but privilege pensioners who have zig thousands of euros, with 12 000 €, with 14 000 €, or, if you were at the National Bank in upper management, with an average of 17 000 € per month to find the income that lives have to give an additional hundred, my esteemed ladies and gentlemen, that's unsocial. [[Abg. New builder: Charly Blecha!]] [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: This is economically damaging!]] I say quite honestly to you, we see this as extremely critical. That's the way you criticized it: with the casting can distribute a hundred. You probably assumed that new elections will soon be: We need to fasten a package before Christmas and give every single one! so that the voters are assured again. [[Abg. Neubauer: Wahlzuckerl!]] That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that is a good and right approach. A corresponding further point is: Women receive an average of 872 € pension, which is totally little. On the other hand, there are still these mountains, these old burdens of privileges, where the legislator has made two calls, namely in 1997 with the Relevant Limitation Act and now, 2014 with the Special Pension Restriction Act, but now we should all be so honest, sincere and fair and take the next step to finally abolish privileges in this state. Pension privileges have no place in our system! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us take this courageous step together! Let's take this step together at the beginning of 2017, and we will do away with privileges courageously! You have us as a partner, and I know that many of the opposition parties are also on their way in this direction, but the government parties were told: You're moving! Move towards a fair system! In this sense – because we also support the fact that in the future there will be a system for all in which the pension area is treated fairly and equally; that is the future that we are imagining – I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for acceptance.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4765	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4881	Mrs Mag. Aubauer becomes the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4903	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Loacker, I am quite shocked how little you appreciate our excellent social system. So I want from you once I'm old and – God forbid! – They are social ministers, not dependent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Dear viewers, on another topic, a small story: You are a man, are 65 years old, have a job, the work makes you happy. The company appreciates your experience, and you are facing the question: Continue work or retire? – You will begin to expect: What does it do to delay the pension? Where's the benefit to me? – That’s exactly why we want to link the new suspension bonus package today: so that it becomes more attractive to work longer. How does this incentive package look? – If our 65-year-old man continues to work, he usually receives a higher salary than the pension, and – this is the innovation now – he pays only half the contributions to pension insurance as well as the employee. What does that bring? What can you imagine? – Concrete: With a gross earnings of € 2 000, he stays in the stock exchange for 50 € net more in the month. And how does that look for the pension? Work longer, does this also pay for the pension? – After three additional years of work, the man, then at the age of 68, has a higher pension of up to 18 percent, and this is a lifetime pension. That's a good offer! We see a win-win situation: The individual receives a higher pension, and on the other hand the pension system is also relieved, i.e. less cost to the state. Why is the topic of pensions so important to us? – In international comparison, we Austrians retire very early – some because they no longer create the job for health reasons, others have to take up early retirement because they lose their job at all. Others, on the other hand, want to work longer because they either need the money or because they feel it as young wells, as we know. [[Abg. Neubauer: But not in Vienna! Not in Vienna!]] In any case, it relieves the pension system if you work longer. Let me say in all seriousness: It is very important to me that we do not hang our young people an even larger debt backpack, so I would like to be a common goal: We work together to ensure that people can stay healthy in the job for longer – and we also need suitable jobs – we work together to ensure that there will also be enough suitable jobs in the future! People who can and want to work should get the chance. This also contributes to the new incentive package and today's decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4951	Next, Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e4973	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! Today, Austria shows its strength, and the strength of Austria in the world is also that we have a social system that we continue to develop every day to adapt to the conditions. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Which one?]] And why do we do that? – Because social security is the most important foundation for a democratic society. With the measures we are taking here, we are strengthening democratic society, but we are also strengthening that people in this country can live well. And we're looking at it very carefully: Where do people have living conditions under which they especially need help? What are we doing? – We have considered that there are many – especially women – who have been part-time employed, who have had little income that really have low pensions. We're setting a signal: We send a message to people who have been in employment for 30 years, who have raised children, with a minimum pension of 1 000 €, many things we have done. This is a contribution that is very important from my point of view. We are discussing today how to make a pension adjustment. I know you can never do that right. [[Abg. New builder: Oh, no! Not yet, but you could try!]] There will always be someone who criticizes that by this or that side. - Okay, that's part of it! But what did we do? – We have told every pensioner and pensioner that we increase by 0.8 percent according to inflation, which is what the Pension Commission has calculated. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You'll get a hundred!]] – That was the first step. We have taken a second step, but I have to give it to everyone who thinks if someone has 800 € pension, then extra 100 €, I like to admit, not sustainable – yes. 100 € are then 100 € net, and the people then also need it very urgently and can start something. This is relatively much for those who have only €800 pension, but that is relatively less for those who have the ASVG maximum pension. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And for one who has 800 € pension?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: So it's just like that again?- Oh, my God!]] That is what I am saying very clearly. Today, we have managed to take child rearing times differently, and we have made a very important decision for young people. We have more involved young people in the Pension Commission, and this has also been particularly taken into account in the new Pension Commission. [[Abg. New builder: And the opposition turned off!]] – I think these are all important steps. We improve the conditions for people who were prisoners of war – even there are improvements – and we take further steps so that we can also do more in the financing of aid. Rehabilitation: Today, we are strengthening the principle of rehab before retirement so that people can be in employment for a long time. And one thing is also important to me, because there is a conscious lack of clarity here: I would have liked to know, Mr Neubauer, with which law we have passed for any old politicians the 100 €. Tell me what law this is! I don't know. [[Abg. New builder: You decide now! You decide today!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I'll tell you right now!]] We have increased contributions for ASVG-pensions. [[Abg. Neubauer: Today!]] Today we decide for ASVG-pensions 100 € additional, and secondly we decide the 100 € for those people who have worked for the safety of Austria in recent years, for officials and for no one else. [[Abg. Neubauer: Exactly!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5129	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5150	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, this is an exciting debate that we have here today. Mr Federal Minister, I have now really tried to listen carefully to you and above all to follow you, which was not quite easy, because what you have now given of yourself was already a bit complex. Her first sentence was: Today Austria shows strength in the world. [[Abg. Neubauer: The emperor could have said that too!]] – Okay, well, you can say that this is either meant as a floskel, or do you mean, because we are the social office of the whole world? - You left that open now. You said: We need to adapt the social system every day. So I don't know when you last adjusted it, but I think it's the first reform for two years, with which we've been adapting something here in the social field. And if Mr Wöginger says that the government works so well because we have ten government boards, then that's right, yes, but you forgot to say that these are the first proposals that we have received since July 2016, i.e. for half a year. So when you knock on your shoulder there and say you're so diligent, I don't know if that's really appropriate in this case. Mr. Federal Minister, to your retirement age: Yes, you're right, of course, and there's no question at all, if someone has a small pension, even if someone has a slightly larger of perhaps €1200, 100 € is a lot of money – no question! – but what you're doing here today is that you give the money to everyone – that up to the ASVG maximum limit, but also beyond. People who have multiplepensions still get it, people who buy luxury pensions get it anyway. [[Abg. New builder: Eben!]] And because you asked about old politicians: Her predecessor, Mr Hundstorfer, refers to an ASVG-pension, but also to a political board. Well, he gets the hundred, of course, he just won't feel it. That is exactly the problem, and that is our criticism. He won't need it either, he'd probably also miss it – I assume – but just do it according to the casting pot principle instead of going here and looking where the problem fields really are. In this regard, you also said: We look where the living conditions are, among which people need help. – Well, you don't have to look there! There are people in this republic who can't afford anything at Christmas: You can't afford luxury, no extra chocolate, no good food, nothing at all! Where are you looking? – Nowhere look! They actually leave you outside, but on the other hand, we have the casting pot principle, and that is what we are criticizing here. Or your great announcement to increase the compensation allowance for people who have been on the job for 30 years: Yes, this is a good measure and long overdue, but if you, ladies and gentlemen at home, are now among the far over 200,000 compensation recipients in Austria and believe you get it, then you have to calculate well whether you have 30 years of work, because if you may be a woman who has worked only 15 or 16 or 20 or 28 years of age and has raised children, you will not get it. [[Abg. Neubauer: Exactly!]] So a family policy, a social policy achievement is not that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And now to you, Mr Wöginger: You have said here that we have extended the pension division, which is important for society, a social-politically important achievement. – Society doesn't do anything! These are the two that just split up. Where's the social performance? – It would be a social benefit if I said: Well, the women are with the children for a longer time, then there is the public hand for the women's pensions. – This would be a social achievement, but that is nothing but the possibility of giving people the opportunity to share their money in their partnership. So I'd rather not talk about a social achievement. [[Abg. Wöginger: We can do it!]] And, Mr. Federal Minister, you really did something today: They made themselves here and talked about a great performance. – This is a socialist justice à la Stöger that you have: Compensating persons are affected only to a very small extent, pension hundreds for all, even for old pensioners, luxury pensioners – by the way, this has just been frozen with the help of the Greens, Mrs Schwentner. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Schwentner: Schwentner?]] You put yourself here and say that you should finally do that?- Oh, my God! – They were there in 2014 and gave your voice to the fact that we are setting up the luxury pensions here and that they are still being valorised annually. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you have made sure that they are not valorised after the inflation rate – no! – but according to the double maximum basis, because you also know that it increases by fee. – You were there, and now you’re making yourself up here and pretending you’d done anything about it, that’s already a huge chuzpe that they’re offering us here. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] That's where we finally have to go, Minister of State! Stop hiding behind your officials! Its social vein ends where it no longer concerns socialist officials. At last look at the population, the people outside, at the minimum pensioners outside, at the women who have raised children who need their existence with 800 € and 900 € deadlines! [[Abg. New builder: You don't know them!]] Do something for her at last! You also agree to our amendment! See that the increase comes only for those people they really need, and that the pensioner is not paid for luxury pensioners too.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5285	The next item is the speech by Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5306	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I find it immoral when we are constantly talking about distributing gifts to pensioners, and I do not think it is right if we are constantly talking about the highest pensions here. The majority of our pensioners are pensioners up to €1,200, and exactly for these people this hundred people is also intended. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! It's about purchasing power for our pensioners, and it's about making this one-off payment of €100 in addition to increasing pensions by 0.8 percent. I welcome this measure, and I also welcome the fact that it will result in a price reduction. This one-time payment – and this is what you have to say here – will be unbureaucratic and already with December 2016 for disbursement. It is tax-free, unpaidable and, as I said, it is fully paid out. It is also expected that this amount will flow back to the economy relatively quickly. We also have a positive economic effect. Finally, it is €200 million that comes to the payment. Agenda item 4 also includes the War Victim Care Act, the Victim Care Act, the Vaccines Act and the Crime Sacrifice Act, i.e. there is a one-time increase in the social compensation pension by € 100. The payout will take place in the first quarter of 2017. Ladies and gentlemen! The changes in the last few months relating to pensions have already been addressed today. Today we decide to make the single payment for the increase in pension and to increase the compensation allowance from EUR 883 to € 1,000 for a long period of insurance. Pensioners were also included in the wage tax reform and there will be recognition of the negative tax from 2017. In recent months, therefore, positive legislative changes have been adopted for pensioners here in this House. Austria has a particularly well-developed pension system in international comparison. It is dynamic and therefore must be constantly adjusted; and I may request your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5352	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5373	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I could hardly understand, I had to ask if I might have understood something wrong when, on the last committee, you gave us quite spontaneously an amendment to the government proposal on farm insurance. What am I talking about? – The government template had planned – had! – that 80 percent of farmers, who are safe in a difficult economic situation, receive a three-month discount on the social security contribution, do not have to pay for these three months. I tried in my statement to the Committee – at a time when the amendment had not yet been tabled – to stress that Green people are aware of the difficult social and economic situation of farmers. I think I have tried to make it clear that I also see it as the task of the Committee to take care of this cycle, that we must ensure that people deserve enough that housing costs are not too high so that we can pay fair prices for domestic agricultural products, so we have also discussed this. [[Call to the ÖVP: What do the farmers pay...?]] And I have tried to make it clear that I do not formally see this discount as the best variant and possibility of support, but that we will agree with Greens. But then Member Wöginger has tabled this amendment, and this one now no longer sees farmers getting a three-month discount in the difficult situation, but that all farmers get 53 percent discount; and that means in concrete terms: The more income a farmer has, the more discount he gets, the more he benefits from this measure. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] They argue with the difficult situation of farmers and then take a measure that benefits the rich more than those who really need it. [[Abg. New builder: This is new socialism!]] They're distributing from bottom to top, that's inconceivable! [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] They take it away from the little ones and give it to the Liechtensteins, the Mayr-Melnhofs, the Mensdorff-Pouillys and so on and so on. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true! ... auxiliary farmers!]] [[Abg. New builder: This is new socialism!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: Of course that's true!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it's about public money, you know that. These are funds that have been committed to offset the supposed deficits of agricultural insurance; and these public funds now benefit the rich more than the small ones. That's inconceivable, ladies and gentlemen, that's not okay! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You all know that very well: That's not okay! [[Abg. Rädler: “The Treasure in the Silver Sea”!]] In addition: There are many people in our country – part-time workers, workers, workers, but also small entrepreneurs, EPUs, unemployed people – who fight for their daily lives, and they take public funds and give them to the rich. - That's not okay! You can really just shake your head.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5536	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5557	Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that this discussion on television will see many so that they will notice the direction in which our “through-socialised” Austria goes. This is really estranged, because obviously you are trying to divide people into those who can still live, and others who, by their own means, achieve better income. This is incredible, and it really hurts, because exactly you all belong to it, and you are currently separating yourself from the people in Austria – strange! [[Abg. Rädler: “The Treasure in the Silver Sea”!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture has a difficult period behind it – hopefully! –: four years with constant income losses, from minus to minus to minus to minus; there are regions that today have half as much income as four years ago, and none of you would tolerate it. Unfortunately, the agricultural policy no longer has the opportunity to make prices and determine markets, but Austria needs its farmers, and our concern was that this state, this Republic shows: [[Abg. Steinbichler:... Agricultural policy!]] You can help yourself! We have farm social security, and every year, despite falling incomes, the cost of social security increases; contributions are increasing because the unit values are not linked to annual income. This was a burden for farmers, which was extremely difficult, and it was clear that at a time when social security has reserves and builds up reserves, we cannot demand more money from the farmers who have nothing at all, because the year was so bad. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Loacker.]] This is unbearable, and that is why we have said that there must be a sign from the Republic that it understands the difficult situation of farmers; and if no other instrument is available, we should at least allow farmers not to pay a rate in their social security. [[Call:80 percent Tax money]] That was up to the last days of the government's plan, then it was suddenly changed, and the change that came to the table would have meant that exactly those that served the volume of the markets and the €800 million loss of income last year had been largely excluded. 85 percent of the market fruit is produced by those 20 percent of the farmers you would have excluded. 40 per cent of the milk comes from the farmers you would have excluded, and 70 per cent of the processing industry, the meat comes from the farmers you would have excluded. We have said that we have to think about it, and I have asked the question in many farming assemblies: Is that all right? I was in Rabenstein on the pielach, a mining region, and I asked how many are under €13 500 and how many about it. The ratio was about half/half in the hall, because you need to know that the limit that affects 80 percent is equal to a limit where the income of a farmer is so small that, if he loses his job alongside agriculture, he can still get unemployment benefit. That's really a border where you have to ask: Are you serious about agriculture? The farmers in Rabenstein on the pielach have given me a sentence: Everyone or nobody! because farmers still stick together, because farmers still know solidarity and because farmers still know what it is like to stand up for each other. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Steinbichler.]] And it is quite typical that Mr Pirklhuber laughs cynically and humorously at this point, because he does not know that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Honey: Would you have...? Are you getting something?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have correctly interpreted the word solidarity in the coalition, and Mr Wöginger has found a way with Mr Muchich to share it in such a way that at least every farmer is involved. It is true that the person who pays less is estimated to be smaller and probably less lost; the person who pays more is estimated to be larger, so an eighth of his annual payment will also be able to save himself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Abg. Honey: The ÖVP is solid...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is very popular here to talk about big and small, and one has even talked about the farm magnates. You know, everyone in Austria pays for the delivery of agricultural and forestry farms – the small, the middle, the great, each. And the property owners who you have so reproached pay this as property owners too, but the least of them are insured in the agricultural social security scheme because they themselves have another profession, somewhere in the local health insurance fund or elsewhere, often also in the commercial sector. However, they pay this levy from agricultural and forestry farms, which may be 10 000, 12 000, 15 000, 20 000 euros in a estate, and this goes to our pension fund. They are solid, and at least they should have deserved not to be insulted. Ladies and gentlemen! As with any other profession, there are people who earn more or less. With us in the agricultural social security system, it is so that the amount of the payment and the discount are directed towards it. One more word: I am very sorry that farmers in particular are excluded from the higher compensatory allowance rate, because this higher compensatory allowance rate means that a single woman is de facto granted a minimum pension of € 1 000. This does not apply to female farmers. This hurts me very much, and I very much hope that we will soon work on it, that it will be repaired. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] So far I have not been able to understand this, but that is our plan, because that is still to be addressed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5680	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5701	Madam President. Mr. Minister! The pension century is really pure client policy, and it is actually a very beautiful irony of the whole story that Jörg Haider will probably find a confirmation of his policy in a year in which “post-factic” has been voted “unword of the year”. Wherever he is, he's probably happy about it. [[Abg. New builder: I don't believe it!]] This is a measure that has no kind of social policy governance function at all. It does not solve the financing problem of pensions, it only makes it worse. Today, we have heard from the FPÖ that we really need to increase the adjustment. The adjustment therefore follows a classification because it is what is still feasible and logical, namely adaptation to inflation. If inflation is low, we will not be able to raise pensions either because it is not eligible for funding. [[Abg. Deimek:... Consumer price index!]] There are no good reasons why this should be so, because we have given ourselves a pension system that must also be fair to the next generations, which must correspond to some kind of insurance logic – although we in Austria have long been away from ensuring that it corresponds to some kind of insurance logic. The proposals that come from the FPÖ, even at the last meeting, call for a minimum pension of €1200 or €1500 – or how high is it just €1 600? - Who offers more? – that’s something that can’t be financed. [[Abg. New builder: 1 200 €!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Of course this can be financed!]] This is in no relation to what people have paid, but that is the system that we have given ourselves. Who's to pay for this? [[Abg. New builder: I just told you! ...not careful!]] The ones that come after us? All of this doesn't concern us anymore, someone's going to take care to solve all the problems that we're leaving behind now in retrospect! – This is the kind of policy we're doing here. We hope that someone cleans up; so much so: We're celebrating the party, someone's gonna clean up afterwards! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now to the hundred: We had initially provided for 180 million € in the statutory pension insurance. With the short-term amendment, the officials are still on the train. 210 million € – this is almost the entire budget of the Science Fund per year, that is the entire budget we invest in basic research. Where does the lobby stay for the next generation if it would like to have an investment? Why don't you stand up for us so that we can have a future so that we can look at all the young people in this country? Why don't you want to be our lobby? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Why do you always have to use your own clients? Why are you always just trying to protect yourself? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder:... the great potential of voters! That's easy!]] Is that the kind of policy you want to do? Is this the message you want to give to young people: that you don't have a lobby in politics? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] [[Abg. New builder:... this has been so for 30 years!]] I'll explain to you how this works: Of course, 50 percent no longer believe that pensions are safe; no one believes in it anymore, because the system is now such that we are getting older and older, but no one is working for it to work longer. [[Abg. New builder: Pure panic!]] If you no longer work, but are longer in retirement, this means that the amount of pensions is getting lower and lower. This is the classification because we are not honest with our citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] The only thing that is honest is to say that we don't get past having to work sometime longer – and not because we don't like people. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... Asylums...!]] It's about allowing them to live themselves. It is a question of allowing them not to spend their evenings on state dependence. It is about that they can live by themselves. The only thing we do here – and that is also what we do with women – is to believe that we can compensate for what they experience from inequality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] This compensation, however, is all the measures that lead women as well as young people through the debt burden into state dependence – state dependence from which they may no longer be able to come out of their own power. If there is something we use for, then it is that young people have the opportunity to spend their lives in such a way as to work for so long that they do not have to say at the end of their life: I depend on the state, because no one wants to be dependent on that state.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5915	The next item is the speech by Mr Kirchgatter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5936	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are very different things being dealt with, and I would like to go into an area which has not been treated so far, namely the home of the home country, which is experiencing a new kind of support. This is very important because it ensures peace and memorial work, and this to the great satisfaction of the officials of the VLÖ. I would like to point out that after the end of World War II, the displaced people have done a great deal here in Austria for reconstruction, especially in my federal country, in Upper Austria, in their professions, but also in the creation of housing. They have done great things in many regions, and this is still to be seen today. I am referring to the route of peace in the city of Marchtrenk, which was opened in 2014, which is exemplary, and a number of positive activities have developed. I also recall the four-part documentation of ORF III, which was of particular interest. Ladies and gentlemen! Now that the generation of experiences is getting smaller and smaller and that the authentic witness reports are becoming less and less, it is all the more important to continue the work of peace and memory. It is important for every generation to ask why or how it was possible for different groups of languages to live together peacefully in areas in which for decades, different groups of peoples, different groups of languages, the Nazi rule could bring enmity, hatred and war. The cooperation that had and have experienced a new quality with the case of the Iron Curtain and with the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision is a decision against forgetting violence, evil and inhumanity. There has been criticism of the Greens in advance. I would like to stress that the Greens have worked very positively with and worked together with the House of Homeland, for the benefit of peace and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e5984	Next, Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6006	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Today's day is not a glorious day in parliamentary history, it must be recognized quite openly. Only the two examples and main points of discussion, the pension centuries and the discount for the social security of farmers, are actually a dissuasive example of how politics is made in Austria. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] On the one hand, there is the SPÖ which calls for these pensioners to take the elections, and on the other hand, there is the ÖVP – both sitting together in the government – which for the farmers, for their clients, also calls for this discount in social security. It's a bad solution. The pensioner – to which I would like to come first – is a money distribution action in accordance with the principle of foundry which does not help anyone. This money distribution action with the pension century lacks sustainability. That's not what the liberals say, Gaby Schaunig, the Finance Representative in Carinthia, and the head of state Peter Kaiser: “One-time payments are not sustainable at all.” – And he does not say that in relation to today’s debate, he says this in relation to the cost compensation that Jörg Haider, as always, has introduced to him. The cost compensation was a highly controversial measure in Carinthia, since Jörg Haider distributed 100 € – he did the same thing that the SPÖ has now decided with the ÖVP. The only difference is, and there you can stand with Jörg Haider as you want: Jörg Haider has at least had a social sense, and Jörg Haider has only given it to those who were the minimum pensioners, those who were those who had a low income. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Someone really has to explain that to me. There you can brilliantly get out of here and defend everything, it remains what it is: a supreme injustice. 100 € Pension grant to give to a national bank-pensionist, to give someone who receives more than 10 000 € pension, that is appalling for the person who has the pension. You have to say that quite openly. This is not socially fair, and we do not think it is right at all. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. El Habbassi.]] The same applies to the counter-business with the ÖVP at the Social Insurance Discount, regardless of the fact that Minister of Agriculture Rupprechter and also the ÖVP representatives have announced a great deal, it is simply broken for all the full discount, i.e. a quarter of the social security contributions, and the promise has been broken – largely announced a half year ago. Now there was a proposal that Minister Rupprechter had negotiated with him who would have favoured the little ones. In our opinion, however, this would have been unfair, I must say quite frankly that it would not have been fair. But it is not fair – and I say that here too, and that is the bad thing about this federal government – that it is always exchanged and negotiated. It is also not fair for those who receive hundreds of thousands of euros of support from the taxpayers of the Austrians, the European Union and countries to receive the Social Security Discount. We do not think that is fair, and that is not a social policy measure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way – and this has already been criticised many times today – the social security discount, which farmers receive of 53 percent, does not solve the problems of agricultural policy. It's a reassurance game. And it is very surprising if the President – and this is true, for those who do not know, President Schultes, the top representative of the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture – goes out and says: The farmers are so difficult, they have so much difficulty, they have to pay so much social security, and here they sit in Parliament and decide on these increases. Here's a decision! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] It was decided by the ÖVP, the Federal Government of Agriculture, the increase in social security contributions, the removal of agricultural diesel. All these measures have been decided by the ÖVP, together with the SPÖ, and then the President and National Councillor Hermann Schultes goes out and laments: So poor are the farmers, such bad income, you can't do anything?, and decide on these burdens. It's a shame. You cannot eat as much as you would have to give up here if you were to listen, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and MEPs Köchl, Pirklhuber and Steinbichler.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These two measures are actually clear to the Austrians how politics works in Austria: On the one hand, the pensioner is given – and I have already said it, Minister, it is not socially fair, there is talkable as you want – and on the other hand it is not fair for those who receive €100 000 of agricultural funds and subsidies to issue social security to that extent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6115	Next, Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I shall perhaps try to contribute to the investigation, because to some of what is offered here in connection with the estate of social security, I can only say: If the sun of knowledge is so low, it really becomes sad. Ladies and gentlemen! If a contribution discount of 53 percent is fixed for the fourth quarter, this is considered to be a downturn of exactly 13 percent over the year. And why is that correct and necessary? – The social security of agriculture or farmers is the only social security scheme in which contributions do not depend on actual income. If a trader or an employee earns less in a year, then his contributions automatically fall, Mr. Loacker. This is different for the farmers: The contributions depend on the value of the insurance, and this is a value which, on average, corresponds largely to the means of earnings. A year's a little better, a year's a little worse. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Completely inappropriate!]] That means we have to learn to live, that is what agriculture is all about. Since the years 2015 and 2016 were particularly bad years – I only need to remember the massive frost and weather damage, Russian sanctions, price decline in many areas – in some areas income fell by up to 40 percent. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] It would be absolutely unfair to pay the same contributions as in a normal year. This would not understand anyone, and no one, no trader and no employee, would be able to afford to pay the same contributions as the previous year, ladies and gentlemen, if his income fell so much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But he must!]] Therefore, it is only fair and fair if the contributions fall by an average of 13 percent and by 53 percent for the quarter. [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Steinbichler.]] Why is there no social isolation? – This is very often mounted. This is easy to answer in the European comparison: Small businesses – all farms – have had greater income losses anyway. This, of course, concerns the full-time farmers. Full-time farmers have no secondary income, no minimum insurance, and unemployment benefit is not available either. It is therefore also necessary for these companies to pay off the contributions, because we do not want them to give up even more. A comparison: The short-term aid is also paid to bridge a crisis without differences due to the size of the firm, if necessary, so that the company does not have to lock down and so that employees do not lose their jobs. It is similar with the investment premiums or with the service provider grant at the age of part-time. There is also no social staggering according to operating size. The financing from the reserves is always critical. It is from the reserves of the health insurance of farmers, because there has always been a sparing economy. It was said that these reserves would only be granted because pension insurance would make such high contributions to health insurance – higher contributions than other professional groups. These higher transfers, Mr Loacker – legal: Lifting rate for the KV contribution of pensioners – is therefore necessary because the farmers have such low pensions as a contribution basis, the lowest at all. However, the same benefits must be financed from the low contributions. [[Abg. Loacker: Better! Better performance!]] This is why there are higher payments for the health insurance of farmers' pensioners. They are motivating – for example in the Committee – about the amount of the pension grant from the budget, from the means of taxation. The grant from the budget to the farmer's pensions is the highest at all. That's almost right. It is as high as the insurance of the railways and the mining industry, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Loacker: Right!]] There, however, the pensions are twice as high as the farmers to make this clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The necessary allowance for pensions has the same reason for both occupational groups: The number of active people is getting smaller and smaller. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] The number of pensioners increases. This is a structural problem in which the state is fairly opposed. I hope that this social aspect can also be heard by you, with all critical evaluations. I regret, as I say quite frankly, that those farmers who have worked for 30 years and who have not had the chance to purchase insurance periods are excluded in increasing the compensation allowance. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: All mothers are excluded!]] I think, Mr Federal Minister, we will have to think socially, fairly and justly in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6271	Mr Pirklhuber spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6293	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's wonderful that I can give my speech after my colleague Auer. “The sun of knowledge” is “so low” for some, said Mr Auer. [[Abg. Prince: Yes, my colleague...!]] And Mr Schultes, the head of the Chamber of Agriculture, meant that it would be a contribution to solidarity that is taking place here. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's continue to scatter sand into the eyes? – I hope not, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] I hope not, ladies and gentlemen. The official is already more than worrying – the pensioner's centenarians and these luxury pensioners, who also receive these benefits. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is not the name of hundreds of officials, that is, pensioners of hundreds!]] All the more decisive, however, is to reject what is happening here in the case of the estate of the social security scheme. Ladies and gentlemen! It is so unusual and incredible that those farms that are more than favoured by the entire agricultural system, Mr Auer, those 2.5 percent of farms that receive 25 percent of all agricultural support, as they are not treated equally, ladies and gentlemen. No, Mr Auer, they get plenty of €2,000, more than €2,000 into the stock exchange. And the farmers who have negative farm results – more than half of those farms have negative farm results after evaluations by the Ministry of Agriculture – get one, two, three hundred. The large company does not get the same hundred, but gets more than 1 300 € more than those who would need it socially. [[Abg. New builder: Yes! This is the same with the luxury pensions!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I have rarely been accommodated by such a monsterity – and this from the point of view of solidarity? - Yeah, let's sell for stupid, colleague Schultes? – Certainly not from you! I'm sure you're not! This house can't be sold for stupid.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6361	Deputies! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: I didn't say anything!]] I don't think I need to repeat it. I would really ask you, in the continuation of your speech, to be moderate in terms of expression. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6388	Thank you, Madam President. I will make a great effort and therefore I would like to say that Mr President, the President of the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture, seems, as it seems, to be more likely to be a lawyer of the estates and estates and of the Raiffeisen functionaries, but not of the farmers. That is my political assessment and analysis. I can't see it any differently. What the situation is, it is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I would also like to make a proposal for a solution and say something about social democrats. I need to ask you: If you still have some backbone on the social policy issue, then vote To this request, which assures all farmers that they will also receive relief, but which is clearly at €1500. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This would relieve all farmers of up to an amount of €1500. This would be socially fair and would also be in the sense of taxpayers and small businesses in Austria. That would be my request. I would also like to say, of course, that the Chamber of Agriculture and all the representatives here in the House finally need a scientific evaluation of the single value system and its impact, Mr Federal Minister, on the social situation of agriculture. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] These reform measures are urgently needed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6485	The amendment and the motion for a resolution are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6592	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6614	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, you should not have been so artificially upset. You could have summarized it more briefly [[Abg. Steinbichler: The next agricultural producer of the ÖVP!]] The Greens are simply not willing to support our farmers in a difficult situation. This is the point, summarized briefly. You would not have had to put our farmers' representatives here, who are truly committed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But you might have been upset by something else: They are also displaced speakers and have already participated in many events, educational trips, even at discussions in the House of Homeland. You could have excited yourself about your colleague, Mr Öllinger, who yesterday, in an incredible press release, has dissuaded hundreds of thousands of people from home who come to Austria as far as the right-wing extremity is concerned. That's a shame, you could've been upset! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] . He will do it later anyway, but it is embarrassing what Mr Ollinger is doing. However, I would nevertheless like to comment on the VLÖ law. [[Abg. Walser: That doesn't fit!]] The VLÖ Act was adopted in 2002 and a fund was made available to ensure the important commemorative and commemorative work carried out by the Home Associations for the operation of the Home House. At the time, it was designed in such a way that the Foundation's revenue could be financed by the ongoing operating company. At the moment, the development is such that the proceeds simply do not reject it, and with the change of the VLÖ law we oppose it. I think it is a serious way of access that a legislator who defined a law with a precise objective 14 years ago, with tasks for this association, is opposed if these tasks can no longer be fulfilled, and it is again possible by a legal change that grants can be increased to ensure that this operation is also secured. It is a very essential work to operate the home house. There, memory work, peace work – it has already been addressed – and history communication is being carried out, and I think we should support it. Yesterday was also the 20th anniversary of the home house, which was also celebrated. All the political groups were represented except representatives of the Greens. So you can't put that in a certain corner. It was a very worthy celebration, which also pointed to the importance accordingly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I think we are taking an important step with this innovation. I can also thank the Minister for Social Affairs for being able to do so. I believe that this also speaks for a government that, when a problem arises, which is obvious, one can find a pragmatic solution. I really can thank you for that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] It is an important step, in my opinion, that this work – the operation of the home house, the entire work of the domestic organisations – is now safeguarded. As a sales speaker, we still have several tasks to solve, even with regard to commemorative work related to a national commemorative day – that is a long-standing demand. It is, I believe, also important to strengthen the education of history and work. There have also been discussions with the relevant Minister of Education. There too we are on a good path. [[Abg. Rädler:... Oils!]] – Mr Oellinger will be here later, but I can now reject it: What he's doing, that's a joke! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6732	Mr Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6764	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Mr Auer, you mentioned this to the companies, I am now telling you a story. The Mayer Hansi from Zauchensee opened a gastronomy company three years ago. He decided three years ago to process and sell regional agricultural products. The shop went well. In the second year he made profits, or from the first year to the second year it was already quite good. In the third year, he had to make the second year of payment of social security contributions and the fourth year's advance payment. And now you explain this to an entrepreneur who has to do it while there is a farmer's discount and the social security contributions are issued to farmers! What kind of nonsense is that?- Oh, my God! What is it for a cleaner against the gastronomy, opposite the...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6782	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to ask you to act.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6797	I take that word back, I'm sorry! What kind of injustice is this?- Oh, my God! Mr Obernosterer is sitting there, today the business allies are still quite well represented in this area. Ah, my colleague Haubner has now also come in. I'm asking you: How do you represent that? How do you justify that? We are urged by Mr Aubauer and we are told that we do not want a social speaker from NEOS. – We all no longer want economic speakers and no more economic policy of the ÖVP! We're tired of them! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And even the sales spokesman of the ÖVP has to come out! You're selling businessmen! You're driving them to us! That's it! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: No, no, to us!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: They're all coming to us!]] That's it, nothing else! You two of the ÖVP have the big problem. [[New condolences with the NEOS.]] The crowning of the whole story is that colleague Auer and the farmers' alliances still sell it so much that they say it will be covered by the reserves anyway. – Yes, with what money are these deposits made? With the money of taxpayers! It is tax money with which the reserves are formed – not your own money! In addition to these injustices of fixation, the tax exemption of the sale of “own” products such as Coca Cola – I leave everything aside now – the overcrowding is the new Commission. What is the outcome of this Commission? It is now in parity with six SPÖ and six ÖVP people. The experts were removed, the opposition was removed! What happens then? [[Abg. Wöginger: The experts were not removed! That's not right! That's not true! You can't say anything you just think of here!]] The ÖVP says we want this, and the SPÖ says we do it. That's why a hundred people come out, and that's why the farmer's discount comes out – at the expense of the taxpayer, to the detriment of the self-employed. [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] And that's the piggy!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6879	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you a call for an order for the expression ‘sweeping’.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6916	“Snowry,” I think, I didn’t say, but acidity. [[General hustle and bustle.]] We've got to...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6937	I would like to take a look at the Minutes, but I am very sure, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e6959	Good. – This is the true scandal! Sell your Christmas gifts differently, truly and honestly, and order your sales spokesman to forward the entrepreneurs to us! Indeed, it is up to entrepreneurs to be disadvantaged by you. [[making a corresponding gesture]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7016	Deputies! If you have now referred to an intermediate call: I didn't hear him. I do not know if he is in the Minutes, but I will have this minutes come, take note of them and then make a decision. The next speaker is Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7040	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues and listeners here and at home! Mr Minister, I must first of all thank you very much for the VLÖ law that we are going to adopt today. The task of the VLÖ is to develop the past and appreciate the displaced people who have found their new home in Austria and who have worked actively in the reconstruction of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it is also the task of the VLÖ to tell the youth what happened, especially where their ancestors came from, whether the Sudeten Germans, the Seven Citizens or my national team of the BuchenlandGermans who came from Czernowitz, from today's Ukraine, from the Bukowina. In this context, I would also like to thank ORF III. We have really prepared and prepared a beautiful series here, which has also been broadcast on television, in which it has just been about reworking the fates of the displaced. The then editor Christoph Takacs has worked decisively on this, which now changes to Salzburg. [[Abg. Matznetter: Why is the FPÖ now going to the displaced?]] [[Abg. Haider: (in the direction of Abg. Matznetter) Did you swallow the big tablets today, or what?]] The House of the Home has many prominent names among its visitors, I can name them here: your colleague Pirklhuber, with whom we have had a very nice and good discussion there. Above all, I must mention what was particularly important to me: yesterday’s festival address on the occasion of “20 years of home house. ” City councillor Dr. Ludwig gave a very hearty and contemplative speech and also addressed the achievements of the displaced and thanked them very much. I would like to thank the people who have worked in Austria for what we have in terms of prosperity at this point and thank me very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The VLÖ also takes care of the old Austrians who are still living in the former K.-u.-k. countries, in order to give them support and help them not to forget the German and Austrian languages, the Austrian culture and history, and also in the minds of the young people who go to school with us in Austria and to show them where they come from, because if we do not know our roots, we do not know where we should go. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to remind you here that we will continue to work with the displaced speakers Kirchgatterer and Hammer to set up an Austrian commemorative day, as we have had in Upper Austria for many years. Once again, Mr Minister, thank you very much and thank you very much to the government parties who are working here today in order not to forget history.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7113	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7134	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since I have been addressed a few times already, at the beginning the clarification: I am absolutely for a place where displaced people, displaced people, can exchange about their sufferings of expulsion and also communicate it to a public. But, Mr Hammer, this must be possible without neo-Nazis! [[Call the FPÖ:But! But!]] [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] It is not possible and imaginable in a Second Republic that displaced people are invited to a house of neo-Nazis, Holocaust liars, anti-Semits. What do you want to talk to them about? About her exorcism? That's ridiculous! Do you know what was going on, Mr Hammer, in the home house and how much the VLÖ has crawled into crosses because he has said that it will not happen anymore?- Oh, my God! In 2012, the founder of an international neo-Nazi organization, the European Action, Mr. Bernhard Schaub, an internationally renowned Holocaust liar, was invited there. He was allowed to refer to the objectives of this neo-Nazi organization: at home, by public means! That's incredible! [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] And afterwards, ladies and gentlemen, the head of the VLÖ comes, apologises and says that this will no longer happen. Now I'm telling you something: In 2002, when the promotion, this one-time subsidy for the House of Homeland, was decided, the head of the VLÖ has already said that it will no longer happen, because by this time, 2002 for example, a certain Claus Nordbruch has marched as a speaker in the House of Homeland, a apartheid activist who lives in South Africa, but was actually a German officer. Only he was released from the federal army for extreme right. He is tingling across Europe – and where does he end up? In the home house, not only once, but several times! He has already been there several times until 2002. Also the well-known Holocaust liar and lawyer Herbert Schaller, who was at the 2006 Holocaust lieger conference in Tehran, spoke about his experience of the anti-Semitic Tehran Conference in the House of Home. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Gerhard Reisegger, a well-known Holocaust liar, was also at home as a speaker until 2002 and also in 2011. Mr. Richard Melisch, an antisemit, as he says in the book, was also a speaker in the House of Home several times. And a Mr. Karl Richter, who for the NPD is the connection to the neonazist comradeships, was also a speaker. And then in 2002 you say off the sides of the VLÖ: That won't happen anymore! – What happened afterwards? The Claus Nordbruch was back, the Herbert Schaller, the Gerhard Reisegger, the Richard Melisch and also the Bernhard Schaub. And that's not enough! In 2012, after the Bernhard-Schaub performance, which was scandalous, where the constitutional protection has also determined – only Bernhard Schaub is a Swiss citizen, who can easily withdraw from prosecution because he is abroad – the VLÖ tip says: That won't happen anymore! - Who's coming back? – Mr Marinovic. We all know this because it rings from a neonazist Bud to the next and gives his talks everywhere. And why does he end up in the home house, ladies and gentlemen? Can you explain that to me? – No, you can’t explain it! These are the conditions in the home house. And I'm not saying anything about the displaced people, who are also organized in associations in their home country. Some of them reported to me in 2012, after the presentation of Bernhard Schaub, and they said they were ashamed, but they do not trust to say that out loud in this organization. Thus are the conditions in this home, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] It is a misery, Mr Federal Minister, that you now pledge this support. Yeah, where are we going?- Oh, my God! Only because anyone in the home house shows up again and says that it will not happen again, where we all know exactly that these neo-Nazis, Holocaust liars, right-wing extremists will of course always appear there, as long as they are not clearly and clearly signaled: Until here and no further! [[Abg. Loacker: But why are the reds now giving money for this club?]] And finally, again: I am absolutely in favour of disfellowshipping people having a place where they can exchange themselves and where they can tell their suffering – but please without Holocaust liars and neo-Nazis!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7201	Mr Wöginger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7222	Madam President. Federal Minister! It is necessary to clarify two things from Mr Schellhorn's speech. Mr President, I should like to thank Your commitment to honor, but that's not the way to stop it. You claimed here that the experts were taken out of the pension commission. It is the opposite! You might need to read government papers at least once. In fact, Article 6(3) states that two experts are included “in the field of economics, social sciences or labour and social law – with international academic competence”. It didn't exist until now. That is why I demand that a Member not make himself here and claim the opposite. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second point, Mr Schellhorn: If you are restoring yourself there and criticizing the discount, the discount for the peasantry, which compares with an entrepreneur and says the business has gone well, he has had a higher profit, then I tell you the following: If I have a higher profit, I also pay higher social security contributions. This is true of a worker when he earns more, that is when he earns more, and that is also true of an entrepreneur when he has a higher income! However, agriculture has now suffered losses for four years, and that is the point, ladies and gentlemen, why we are making this deposit.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7262	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7283	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! After the duel between Mr Wöginger and Mr Schellhorn – perhaps you still do – I should like to say one thing: Pension hundreds here, farmer's discount there, but I think those who really need it will stay on the track. I am of the opinion that this is neither social nor balanced. I am referring to TOP 10, the motion for a resolution by Mrs Dietrich on the introduction of pension schemes. To do something in this direction is still necessary in order to prevent even higher debts from the pension system. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, the pension system must continue to have privileges, such as the luxury pensions. That is still the case, and this development is not all right. If you look at the development of the pension adjustment – I have looked at it very carefully – you realize that from 1990 to 1995 the pension adjustment was 3.7 percent, 0.5 percent above inflation. As of this period, pension adjustment was on average lower than the inflation rate by 0.25% per year. And the adjustment – which has already been addressed today – from 2013 to 2015 with a fixed percentage without a grinding scheme results in a better provision for high pensions, for the so-called luxury pensions. And the many industrious people who have worked their lives stay on the road and have the good fortune. Minister! They have today addressed the pensioner and presented him as a great achievement. Such a great achievement is not this hundred, but it is rather a sad example. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7322	The next item is the report by Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7344	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have now made my speech, because I have to thank my colleague, Mr Oellinger, very much – perhaps something unusual for a liberal. Your contribution was very important, because you have once clarified for yourself and for all those who have applauded in your group what culture of memory for you, what pluralism means for you, freedom of thought and opinion and so on. What is Oillinger's culture of memory? – Free to Lueger: Whoever remembers, I decide! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] And if I don't vote for it, he's in doubt – what is he? One – after all, Mr Oellinger, you used the term seven or eight times before! A Nazi! Of course. There are names from long past years that no one knows. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] So at least I didn't know them all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I didn't know her, but You know everything, because you seem to know the best in the scene. And to the name the attribute is taken. What's being brought? – Of course, Holocaust liars, antisemits, Nazi, Neonazi, fascist, totalitarians and so on. And that's enough, so there's no subsidy. [[Abg. Walser: They were festival speakers...!]] I've only had a few names of people who've been in the home house lately. The national team is quite a group, which is more conservative in value, rather heimatically connected, rather comically connected and therefore does not fit into the global and ideological overall picture of a green and especially an oillinger. [[Abg. Oil: Well, yes!]] [[Abg. New builder: But Van der Bellen already!]] That's why: Fascists. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] So I say to the “fascists” who are there, a few names: Cardinal Schönborn, Karl von Habsburg-Lothringen – admitting no reds, no ultra-lefts and no greens –, Dr. Michael Ludwig, SPÖ member and city councillor, Werner Fasslevend, Karl Blecha, Ambassador Trauttmannsdorff, Andreas Khol and even Heinz Fischer. They've all been there. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Of course, they are not mentioned or just mentioned somewhere, but there are names that no one knows, alleged homosexuals – excuse me, I didn't want to say that at all –, alleged Holocaust liars and so on. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] Mr Oellinger, here with the thanks to To conclude: You know, it once said Voltaire that freedom is always the freedom of the dissident. On the other hand, they mean: Freedom means that I can say what I want, the others have the goss to keep, and if not, they are Nazis! – This is not the kind of democracy for which we stand free!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7450	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7471	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Yes, as quickly as possible, the positions in the debate are changing! [[The speaker shall place a panel on the speaker’s desk, on which a bar chart can be seen under the heading ‘pensions’, where, under four bars, the amounts ‘€777’, ‘€862’, ‘€1420’, ‘€2857’ are to be read in ascending order ‘Bauer’, ‘Worker’, ‘Staff’ and ‘Staff’ over the bar.]] If one has heard the yesterday's agricultural debate here and the success story in connection with the AMA marketing – I am thinking of the President of the Chamber of Agriculture Schultes and the President of the Federal Farmers' Republic of Auer, who express the opinion: Everything paletteti and everything great! Today, one day later, we have to point out what is caused by trying to repair the agricultural policy that has failed to achieve social policy. There it is tried to interpret something in which it is then in the connex with it in the paper: One gets the pensioner, but the other, the farmers, get a discount too! - That's the result. I would like to briefly report on the emergence of this pension discount: When the discussion began, there was a milk crisis summit in this House, to which the opposition invited; and there was panic because one knew that there was nothing to bring together tangible solutions for the farmers. We know how fatal the situation in agriculture is. There has been a 37 percent reduction in income over the past five years! Less than 37 percent – these are hundreds of millions of euros missing from the regional economy that farmers cannot spend because agricultural policy has failed. We have also experienced yesterday in the Quality Seal Act that farmers' representatives are voting against the agricultural interests – and that is the result now! [[Keeping the above-mentioned table in height]] President Schultes, you have voted against the reintroduction of the agricultural diesel several times in this House, and you have voted in favour of us raising the uniform values. You of the ÖVP voted in favour of abolishing the suckler cow premium, and you voted in favour of abolishing the milk quota. I remember: Action “Our milk 20 20 60” in the Mondsee Castle. – Sensationally, how to scatter sand into the eyes to the farmer! And then you make yourself here today – I have to say: a pity! – and do not admit that one of these 172 million €, which one has announced out loud as a success... It has been announced out loud: The success at the milk crisis summit, 172 million! Farmers get a social security discount, a quarter is issued! – First it was said that it would take time, then the protest came, then it was said that it would be issued. – This is the huge success of social policy in Upper Austria! Mr Wöginger, I did not know at all that the ÖAAB is now taking over the Farmers' Federation, since you are already praising the agricultural policy; you say: 53 percent goal success – this is a success! 53 percent! And when the vortex started to cash the farm government contribution, as it said: Friends, then cash your contribution yourself!, the mints have become. First they wanted to give only 80 percent of the 51 percent and then they split it to 100 percent, and they get only 53 percent of the promised. – This is what social policy looks like in Austrian! And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the result: [[Keeping the above-mentioned table in height]] 777 € Average pension for farmers! – This is the result you regret, even though you have caused it yourself! That's the sensational thing at all. Then to say: Yes, but the farmers are not present at the 1 000 € minimum pension!, is the summit! But if it proposes the opposition, you will vote against it – and we are making the test on the example today, colleague Wöginger. In Upper Austria, as stated in the newspaper, you have said, this is a huge success, you have agreed with the Greens on four years' billing of child rearing times. Today you have called for this again, and in this context we are bringing forward a motion for a resolution from the Stronach team today, because it is very essential that we still decide on it today. That's what I'm going to do with the approval, especially the one from the ÖVP family party. What tension this pension century and this social security discount have caused, we can read in yesterday’s “Small Newspaper” where it is said that even farmers’ Federal President Auer has criticized his own minister, who even yesterday spoke of a success story, that he broke the negotiations too early. The fact that farmers' social security now loses €30 million from the tobacco tax for years is also kept silent. These are the things, the impurities that have no place in politics in the future. For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am convinced that, after this social debate, we will certainly receive the necessary approval. We're asking! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7590	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e7679	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We come to a whole series of votes. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Social Insurance Amendment Act 2016 in 1429 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part concerned by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Dietrich, colleagues on ‘Luxuspension reform now!’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on 'Improved retirement periods per child for childhood'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, including the title and receipt in 1430 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Dietrich, colleagues on ‘No single payment of EUR 100 for pensioners above the ASVG limit’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Pensions Act, the Bundestheater Pensions Act and the Bundesbahn Pensions Act in 1431 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Members Neubauer, colleagues and others. First of all, I shall vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. The Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment on Articles 1, 2 and 3. Whoever stands for this, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law which amends the War Victim Care Act, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Vaccination Act and the Crime Sacrifice Act, including the title and receipt in 1432 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1433 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1434 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1435 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1436 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1437 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is an approval by the majority, and therefore this request has been accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1438 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Draft federal law amending the Farm Social Insurance Act and the Health and Social Aid Act in 1439 of the Supplements. Mr Hizu, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Mr Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr Pirklhuber, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1. If you agree to this amendment, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Pirklhuber, colleagues on unit value system. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Draft federal law which amends the prisoners of war compensation law, the army compensation law, the crime-offering law and other laws, in 1447 of the supplements. There is a desire for separate vote by Mr Mag. Loacker concerning Article 4. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for a separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 4 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a sign that is acceptable. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a sign that is acceptable. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[11:15:22]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1362, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Employment and Health Act, the Labour Contract Act, the Working Time Act, the Employment Employees and Self-Employee Prevention Act, the Wage and Social Dumping Law and the Income Tax Act 1988 (Reintegration Part-Time Act), and the Amendment 863/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the introduction of part-time work (1440, e.g.) 14. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1334, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Law on Working Time, the Labour Peace Act and the Law on Safety at Work in 1991 (1441 d.b.) 15. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Constitutional Law (1442, e.g.) 16. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1344, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, with which the labour market service law, the labour market Market Policy Finance Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 are amended (1443 e.g.) 17. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1343, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Construction Workers' Vacation and Processing Act, the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act 1957, the General Social Insurance Act and the Labour Market Policy Finance Act (1444 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1670/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on priority for Austrian workers (Burgian model) (1445 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the impact of non-profit activities by asylum seekers on the second reading Labour market (1446 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8154	We now come to points 13 to 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8182	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A number of legislative proposals are now being debated. I would like to take out the Federal Law, which amends the Construction Workers' Vacation and Processing Act, the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act 1957, the General Social Insurance Act and the Labour Market Policy Finance Act. This legislative proposal is about increasing staff at BUAK in order to have more staff for control, so to speak, to deal with wage controls and all the problems that we know in particular from the construction industry. I think this is a very good, very important and a very right way, because we know that wage dumping is taking place in Austria. I can't help but hear that now from all sides of the objection will come again: They were against the wage and social dumping law! – Yes, exactly, because it still takes place wage dumping. That is to say, this is a law that is not worth the paper on which it stands, and that is why we have not agreed to it – and we have always justified it! In the last novel, Minister Stöger, you have already been the lead minister, and at that time we have justified it, by outsourcing the control of this law, i.e. the enforcement of the wage and social dumping law, to the Ministry of Finance. And the financial police, as we know, are not only chronically under-occupied, but there is the staffing position. It has been further phased out. A law that can't be implemented doesn't make sense. - Point one. Point two – and we have also criticized this, since the beginning of 2011, to the last novel, Mr. Stöger, Federal Minister – is the fact that there can never be sufficient control, especially in the area of posted and left to work, as long as social security contributions are made in the home countries – or not! We do not know that at all, because we have no insight there. And as long as you, Minister, cannot solve these problems, you will not be able to abolish wage dumping in Austria for so long. It is precisely in the same notch that a request from my colleague Herbert Kickl is also making regarding the implementation of the Burgenland model. The Chamber of Labour of Burgenland and, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, the SPÖ Burgenland, i.e. the Social Democratic Party in Burgenland, have decided on a resolution which reads as follows: Priority for Austrian workers! This is precisely what we are talking about, namely: The social security contributions must be included, which of course must be paid to us in Austria. The SPÖ Burgenland also demands – you hear and marvel! – partial restrictions on access to the social system for foreign workers. – That is always where you then tell us that everything was not going to be completely unsustainable by EU law, that is impossible. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, obviously you do not agree in the Social Democracy as to whether this is possible or not. Since the Chamber of Labour also worked there, I think there are possibilities there, but the problem I see here is: They are in principle opposed to anything that could protect the Austrian labour market or make it more just. This problem arises from injustice, from the injustice of the posted workers, where we do not know whether social security contributions are paid for them or not. You know very well, Mr Federal Minister, because this is a problem that has been known for many years: These people are once registered in their home country, then they are sent to Austria, work here with us, and the next day they will be logged out of social security in their home country again. This is a fact, you know very well, Mr Minister, and the Chamber of Labour knows this, which has often shown it. The trade union has also shown it to some extent, but nothing is done about it, but since 2011, it has been rehearsed as before, and one still tries to decide a novel where it says: Now it's gonna be good! Now we're still making an intensification of the law, but we're not carrying out the law. We can't do it in part, and that's why it's so necessary and so important that we really trust ourselves to do something about it, especially in the heavy industries. With “we” I mean the Austrian Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We should say that our workers should first be on our jobs. I particularly like a point in this Burgenland model, namely moral responsibility for Austrian companies. That's exactly what we have – but we don't see them. Mr Federal Minister, you finally have to do it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must finally come back to a preference of Austrian companies! In this context, the so-called best bidder principle is also finally to be developed – that is now said in the direction of the ÖVP. A second request by Mr Kickl, which is also very much in my heart, is a request for a review of the impact of the voluntary work of asylum seekers on the first labour market. One thing must not happen: that asylum seekers then, as the cheapest or more low-cost workers, in other words fully-priced workers, push out jobs on the first labour market. Then this idea, which was born here, would actually be a very, very bad one, because it would do nothing but in turn produce unemployment.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8275	The next speaker was Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8296	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have 27 agenda items today, including ten government documents and three more legislative proposals, all of which concern social policy. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You didn't have one before!]] I can't remember when there was such a mammoth program. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's been a long time!]] If we, or you too, honoured me very much. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens, which have listened to this debate from its very beginning, one can be seen quite clearly: If there are speakers of the opposition parties here, our social system is mostly mistreated. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Cashier: Not the social system!]] If speakers of the government parties are at the speaker's desk, then it becomes clear that we have a great objective of ensuring this social system, to change this social system accordingly where there is a need for change, and to expand it where it is necessary. And we do this with a wealth of legal changes, improvements in the interests of people in this country, whether this is the compensation allowance plus, the improvement in child rearing times, the short-term work allowance, which is to be extended indefinitely and also during its duration from 18 to 24 months, or also the increase in pensions. The topic of pensions not only accompanies us now in this house, but also accompanied the generation before me and another generation before it. This eternal discussion on the question of whether pensions are safe only in the end makes people uncertain. Look, if many say our pension system is stable, but there are still challenges in the future that we have to face – yes, then we do it as government parties, and we want to do the same. The fact is, the state pension is the foundation for all people who are members of low pensions, and this should ultimately remain the same. In order to remain this way, it is important to ensure employment. I hope that, with the measures of the Federal Government, which have been launched in the past months for 2017, we will be able to achieve record employment in 2017. These future and additional investments for the municipalities, these additional incentives for investment for small and medium-sized enterprises, I believe, are a very important sign in this direction. However, if we have more employment, it is all the more important to ensure that competition continues to be fair. Mr Belakovich-Jenewein has identified a number of areas of problem here, and we are not far apart as regards the consideration of these problem areas. All parties in this country know where there are problems in the labour market, only with the solutions do we have a different opinion. In the fight against wage and social dumping, we have different approaches – and there has been a lot of success in 2016. This has to be said, that there has been a lot of work on the rails, which will help the sectors concerned. We have declining numbers of unemployed in the construction industry, we have increasing employment figures – with laws, with new regulations that are EU-compliant. And so today we also decide on another measure, namely the Soko construction, whose staff we will double by 2020, when it comes to controlling the critical companies – these are the foreign companies with their cheap workforce in Austria – much more closely and also to implement appropriate measures. I would like to thank all the experts in the Social Ministry, the Minister of Social Affairs, for all the parties that will agree today. We had almost reached unanimity. We will see whether Mr Loacker is still able to convince us of this important measure today. It is, I believe, an important sign in the fight against wage and social dumping. Finally, because the red light is already shining on the speaker's desk, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who have made it possible to improve the Constitutional Labour Act, to extend the term of office to five years, and to increase the amount of education available to works councils, to those who do so, to represent in a company workers who stand up and to the rights of those people who are at work there on a daily basis, and to work for it. However, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank all the members of the Committee very much. I know 2016 was not a simple year, but we do really good, constructive work there. I really appreciate that. I hope for a good cooperation in 2017. And if we are already in the Christmas season, I would like to conclude by thinking about how we are set up in Austria with our social system – with pensions, health, care. Let us just look at our next state border and compare how it is in other countries! Then, I think, we will really be able to think and be aware of what a great country Austria is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8373	Mr Mag. Loacker's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8394	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The flood of applications is a big one, which Mr Muchich has rightly observed. It should also be noted that we had exactly zero government documents in the Committee. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Exactly!]] And it's coming to the end of the year: In the evening the lazy will be diligent, says the proverb. And a little bit this precipitation in the last session before Christmas gives this impression. There are indeed improvements in this, improvements for the workforce that we find good, for example at the item on the agenda, which concerns the return to the workplace after a longer period of illness, where at last a form of part-time work or, as others call it, part-time health care is introduced. This contributes to job security and helps to improve the reintegration of long-term occupational diseases. We also welcome the reforms in the field of short-term work. As flexibilisation is also to the advantage of workers for companies exposed to changes in orders, they are guaranteed continuity in their CV and safety of the workplace. This must be supported. However, Mr Muchitsch has rightly mentioned that we do not agree with everything, when it comes to the law on the building workers' holiday and handling fund. Yes, it is right when there are regulations, they belong to them, and you have to monitor that too. Soko construction can be welcomed. However, what I do not understand is that particular interests are placed above the general public interest. And what happens in the longer term in the construction worker's holiday and handling law is already lupen-clean client policy for the industries affected by it. I believe that, dear Beppo Muchitsch, you are not always able to separate your various hats in such a way that you can keep the function as a committee chairman with responsibility for the general government system on the one hand and, on the other hand, responsibility as the head of the construction-wood union with your representation of interests for the construction-wood workers on the other. We are being pushed into the Committee by special regulations for an industry, with the argument: This is a social partnership agreement! And I'll tell you: This is nice when the social partners agree, but the laws still make Parliament. This can follow a social partnership wish or not, but with it I think it is wrong to hold a discussion. It is also a real and important task if a trade union official is to work for his group of workers, to use energy and force, and if he does, it should be granted something; but I think it is worrying if functions are mixed if we get a special regime for the construction industry in the anti-fraud social legislation, the wage and social dumping law, and if changes in contract law always get the special interests of the construction industry in the event of special interests, and if we now exclude a whole sector from the bonus malus system – which I consider to be missing anyway – because it is in line with the interests of this group, which by chance is the leader of the Committee. That's a mistake. Let us remember, for example, the early retirement possibilities that have been set in the Social Fraud Act. There are other trade union leaders who are also committed and who cannot claim such special rights for their clients, because it does not permit the constellation. Here, the functions as the head of the construction-wood union, as the social partners and as the chairman of the board of directors of the building workers' holiday and handling fund come together, and this results in special solutions for an industry. And, obviously, my group is the only one who finds itself in such multifunctions and in the process of enhancing interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8431	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8454	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on two issues. One is the reintegration part-time, part-time work ability. I believe that this is a sensible measure and a proper development in our social and health system. We currently have the situation that you are either sick or healthy – in the middle there is nothing. However, there are people who, due to whatever diseases, are in the state of illness longer and then are unable to return from one day to the full-time workplace. Therefore, we introduce this reintegration management, namely that if you are sick for more than six weeks – as I said, for whatever reason – you can start with a part-time period. There is also the reintegration fee, which is about half of the sickness allowance – around 21 € per day is the daily rate. In this way, you can rework and then increase to normal working time. This possibility is provided for six months; if necessary, it can be extended to nine months. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an important measure for people who are longer ill or who have not been able to return to their jobs for a longer period of time due to an accident. I think that this is a really good measure in the sense of the citizens who are suffering from such things. The second point I would like to address – Mr Muchich has already mentioned – is: We have amended the Labour Constitution Act and we also adapt the duration of the Works Council bodies to what we have decided here for the legislative period of the National Council. There is no municipal council, no country day in Austria, which is re-elected at intervals of less than five years, and that is why this should also apply to the works councils. This is a regulation which, of course, will not create any disadvantage for the works councils, but also for the service providers, because first of all it is a year longer to work constructively, and secondly, the choice is also linked to costs that the service providers normally have to bear. That is why we have agreed to amend this. However, there are also points which need to be dealt with here, namely the institutions of the workforce. This is about auditors et cetera. Therefore, I make the following request for TOP 15: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is also the central sentence: For all works councils, starting from the 1st century. The term of office shall apply for five years in January 2017. This is a measure that costs nothing, but is important for works councils. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8552	The amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8636	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8657	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Flexibility is the keyword of our time. Workers are required to be flexible at any time, but companies too must react flexibly. And it is good and right to have measures or opportunities in the field of labour policy to adapt flexibly to order situations. I think the Labour Market Policy Financing Act is a very good one. His core piece or one of his core pieces is the short work. With short work, you can react flexibly to order situations without the staff being released immediately without the employees falling into nothing, but you can give them some certainty that you are going over a time until the company has more orders again. On the other hand, one also gives the company the certainty that, in the event of a stronger order situation, he can rely on good employees and not have to look for new employees again. That is why we will also agree to this Labour Market Policy Financing Act, especially since €20 million per year are available for this short work and the maximum duration is even extended from 18 months to 24 months. In our very difficult time, short-time work is not only a phenomenon for small businesses, but also for companies that are recognized as established, such as the Voest, like Husky, like Opel, where in Germany, due to the Brexit situation, one had to go short-term in short-time, or VW. This means that everyone can meet, and the legislator is well advised to take appropriate precautions. And I believe that this law also makes sense. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] The next point I would like to address briefly is the ability to work part-time. This is also a useful measure so that, after a longer illness, one does not immediately once again from zero to a hundred to work, but in consultation with the doctor, 25, 50 or 75 percent – depending on what you are able to do, how to achieve it physically – can be integrated into the work process. We will, of course, vote in favour of this. It is also true that similar models work very successfully in Sweden, that this model is successful in Switzerland, and I am looking forward to creating this opportunity in Austria as well. Ladies and gentlemen! Still a phenomenon in Austria that we should think about: Every third employee is going to work sick! With us in Parliament too, colleague Martina Schenkim is a little loaded at the moment, and yet she goes to work sick. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hagen.]] On the one hand, this shows the working understanding that we have – that is true and good – but on the other hand, many are afraid that, if they are not there, they might lose their jobs in a situation where there are soon 500 000 unemployed people, so they are fighting for their jobs. We should also keep in mind this phenomenon and really give people the time to get out without having to feel the fear immediately, they will now lose their job. In conclusion, Mr Loacker said: I think it is positive if Mr Muchitsch, as chairman of the Bau-Holz union, can move something for his union. That is the purpose and meaning that each of us stands for a group of interests and works for this group according to the best of knowledge and conscience. Like Leo Steinbichler for the farmers, it is also fine if Mr. Muchitsch stands for building wood, because he knows how difficult it is to work at the construction site at more than 40 degrees in the summer. But he also knows that it is not always pleasant at minus 15 degrees in winter. I am pleased when people from practice are here, getting a position and working for a group. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8723	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8745	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the seven agenda items in this block unfortunately do not allow you to address everything in detail. I would like to start with the Reintegration Part-Time Act. I think this is a good thing that after a longer illness, people are given the opportunity to slowly get back into work. This is a good thing, but it has a serious weakness – I have already mentioned this in the Committee –: There is no legal right to this part-time scheme. My assumption now is that companies that are important to the well-being of their employees would anyway be involved in helping someone who has a serious illness to return to work, but especially those – and I am now saying this under quotation – who do not have this “sensitivity” – would actually need a law in order to enable previously ill people to do so. That means that for us it would have been much better if one had linked the whole to a legal claim. The Minister has said that it has not yet been possible to achieve our common objective. – Well, let's try that! Our goal remains, however, that this possibility can really benefit everyone. Now it's going to be a little complicated: As a further point, we have the implementation of an EU directive on working time in inland waterway transport and in touring buses. But then there is a link, and this is about the work of the works councils. It has already been mentioned that these will have more days available for training in the future. This is okay for us, but we are concerned that the term of office should be extended. I also tried to explain our concerns in committee: The current average employment rate is 1.5 years. That is to say, there will be very, very many people, even more than before, who will never have the chance of choosing their works council over the course of a period of time because they have long been gone again. I am concerned that the Works Council will then tend to represent the interests of the old tribal workers who choose it, and especially the interests of the boys who come and go, who are anyway more affected by the precarious employment conditions, not equally intensively. Mr Keck said that this would certainly not happen. I hope so, I can only say. However, in order to strengthen the interests of young people also in the framework of works council work, I would like and would like many young people, including the young union, to see the electoral age reduced to 16 years. I would also like to make an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Again: It is about reducing the electoral age in the works council elections to 16 years. This would be an important accompanying measure for the extension of the working period for us. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. El Habbassi.]] Finally, very briefly on the subject of short work: Yeah, it's good that this was taken over in the permanent right. There is also, however, an Annex, namely the possibility of the AMS to access the data directly from the reporting register. All this is argued that the AMS has the possibility of discovering hidden communities. Ladies and gentlemen! What is this necessary for the AMS? – The AMS then wants to reveal that perhaps women no longer have their own right to emergency aid because they live in an apartment together with a man. If this is the case, There may be, or may not exist, financial grants for them. The fact is that the woman has no legal right to this maintenance, but this maintenance is considered by the AMS as an emergency relief, or he even means their departure. This is to a large extent unfair, and therefore we will not agree to this regulation with the insight into the reporting register because it is the basis for this injustice. We don't want that. We want women to have their own income in unemployment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Summary: There is some good in the block, some beauty mistakes are included, also some schnitzers. Finally, please: Let us take more time for the debate so that such a herb-and-ruve day-to-day block is no longer necessary! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8842	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8931	Mr Stöger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8953	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! With these new laws, we are taking some steps to bring people back into work if they have long illnesses due to severe diseases. It is indeed true that we strengthen the principle of rehab before retirement, so that we also bring people who have become sick back to work. That's why it's necessary. it also has legal provisions. I would like to admit that the labour legislation with companies is a voluntary one, because it is also important that sick people are voluntarily integrated into the company, but we are now creating the basis for the fact that there is also a reintegration allowance and that social legislation is also adapted. We have made a regulation relating to inland waterway transport in connection with the Working Time Act. We also arrange working time and breaks in touring buses. This too is an adaptation to changed situations, and I think that is particularly important. I would like to thank the construction industry, where there is a majority of entrepreneurs who do not want to allow some to commit social fraud in this area. I would like to express my thanks to the fact that we are setting out measures here that we are considering social partnership, what we can do to combat abuse. I think that's an important job. I expressly thank Beppo Muchich that he always encourages that. It is also important to me to point out that I consider social partnership measures to be very important. It is important to solve problems together in companies. It is therefore my concern to thank me for all the social partners, especially the many works councils, who in the company ensure that the role of workers will not be forgotten. I thank the entrepreneurs who also pay attention – and this is the majority – to the fact that their employees are well prepared to do so. I am also grateful for the fact that trade unions are constantly negotiating collective agreements with entrepreneurs, which are the basis for people having income and we have ordered conditions. This is the social state of Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e8998	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9019	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda items 13 to 19, work and social – I comment on TOP 16: The aid for short-time work was originally introduced to help companies in the financial and economic crisis over the rounds and thus to obtain as many jobs as possible. If someone is unemployed, especially in a certain age, then it is very, very difficult to find work again. This scheme is now being extended and extended indefinitely. This is a very important establishment and a real step. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we do not need this institution too often, because the short work usually reflects the economic situation, and that would not be good. Thus, this year and beyond 2019, 20 million € will be available for short-time work each year. It must be a great concern to all of us that everything is done so that we do not need this regulation too often, but if so, it should be taken and people should be able to keep their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9055	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9076	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Today, we decide on an innovation in social policy, the part-time reintegration. This is a completely new instrument of social policy in Austria, which, I believe, we will be very proud of in the future. People who are in the hospital for more than six weeks then have the opportunity to reduce their working time, because of course we all know that the way back to work is often not easier. Especially in the case of mental diseases, even though the colleagues are healthy, it is difficult for them to return to daily working life and accompanying measures are necessary. The Committee noted that: Well, what are you doing for? There are already in many farms! - Yeah, that's right. In many companies where the social partners work, such models are already offered to employees. However, two components are missing: One component is that in the future these colleagues will receive a part-time reintegration allowance, i.e. a payment of their part-time obligation; and the second component is that they will no longer have any disadvantages in retirement. Of course, what was particularly important to us is that this measure is of high quality and secure quality. On the one hand, there is the possibility of getting external support via fit2work or, on the other hand, the possibility that, where desired and available, the occupational medicine in operation, involving the works council, will develop models on how this integration can work in the operation. With this, we have developed a new model that we can be proud of together. Mrs Schatz has referred to it, of course there are further wishes. What's missing is the legal claim on it. That is why the evaluation of this model is also so important, and that is what we have written into the law. Many issues will arise in the implementation of this whole, and that is why it is important to evaluate this in order to see how we can further develop this model, which we are now the first step in implementing, in the sense of the colleagues who are affected and who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9113	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9135	Mr President. Minister! High house! The world-famous economist and Nobel Laureate Milton Friedman once said: You can have open borders, or you can have a social state, but you can never have both at the same time. Today, the theme of the social state and the social laws is. I have some specific questions to the Minister: How do you really want to secure the social state in times like this, in times of open borders? How is this definitely from your point of view with the upper limit? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It will never be reached!]] Here we always hear diffuse information that the upper limit has already been reached, it has not been reached, calculation of asylum seekers yes/no, of those who are already here, yes/no – diffuse information. The population no longer knows, asks for and remains frustrated and uninformed. What about the new migration report? - That's what it says: 50 000 new migrants need Austria every year. Are there any asylum seekers calculated? How do you ensure the criteria which people should come to us? What training are they supposed to have? Which countries are they to come from? From a social point of view, how do we see that there is no social tourism and no immigration into the social system, which is already very burdened? How do you want? Are you taking care of this from your point of view? How do you explain to the Austrians, from the point of view of the Ministry of Social Affairs, that 2 billion euros a year are due to migration costs, if at the same time we have extremely high unemployment and a cracking pension system that is already gratifying at all corners and ends? How do you explain to the contributors that thousands of illegal migrants are still with us, can't be postponed and must be preserved? How does this say a Social Minister, a Social Ministry of the Population? How can we represent and defend this if we cannot, at the same time, put forward concrete measures to stop these abuses and these shortcomings, and they can no longer be tolerated? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9171	The next item is the report by Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9193	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Franz, I think you have now confused this a little with Question Time. Of course, you have every opportunity to make a written parliamentary request. That would be better for those questions you have asked here. It has already been mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very important social policy day for Austria today, because very important decisions are being made. I would just like to mention two of these: firstly, the decision on the extension of the operating Council period from four to five years. This is a very successful and wise step, and I do not quite understand, Mrs Schatz, that you cannot follow this request, and not because you have also decided to do so for the five-year period in Parliament, I believe. [[Abg. Honey: No!]] – You did not decide to do so, but you use it, of course, so you simply have to admit it to the works councils. I would also like to say a sentence on the subject of short-time work, which is being decided today: This is an instrument that has been very successful, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated. I have also heard about this today from no political group. We have seen that this instrument was so successful in the 2009 crisis, because it was possible to hold the fellow Members with their qualifications and when the orders came back when the recovery came back, so to speak, the qualification was available to complete these orders. At that time, in 2009, we had 40 000 people in short work, and this was of course greatly helped. At present, 2 100 people are in short work. In other words, it is not true that this instrument does not apply even now; just yesterday, an Upper Austrian company registered short work. Let me say two things: It is always said that this is very complicated and associated with a very large bureaucratic effort. – Within a few days, the agreement with this company was completed, and it was signed yesterday. Now it goes into the bodies, and with 1. January of the new year the 200 colleagues can go into short work socially and lose almost no income; 90 percent of the income will continue to be paid. I would like to see the opportunity and thank Walter Schopf because he was the one who negotiated this agreement yesterday. Thank you, Walter, for passing over the stage so fast! I think it is a very essential and constructive step that is being taken here today. The working people who work in crisis operations and are affected by crises need this instrument. It's very, very important! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9232	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9254	Mr President. Federal Minister! At TOP 18: The labour market in Austria is characterised by an East-West gap. Although there are high levels of employment compared to the highest level of unemployed workers, due to the close proximity to economically weak countries, the Eastern Region must be particularly attention. Not to be ignored is the European freedom of movement for persons and the Services Directive. There are considerable differences between service opportunities in Austria and those in the neighbouring eastern neighbouring countries, so that our domestic labour market is formally flooded by workers from the border area. The principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place cannot be recognised in this form, taking into account significant differences in training. Conditions of employment of foreign workers and employers shall be fully registered in the valid domestic system. The fight must be declared to be a permissive blackwork. With regard to our social system, it should be pointed out that social benefits for non-occupied persons should not be provided to the fullest extent possible. It would have to be understood, of course, that the benefit of the domestic unemployed is to be granted to foreigners entitled to work. Although the number of low-cost workers from the EU countries is stagnating, the number of people unemployed at home continues to rise. Again: Priority should be given to local workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9281	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to a number of votes which I shall make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First vote on agenda item 13: Draft Reintegration Part-Time Act with title and receipt in 1440 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is once again unanimity and therefore also accepted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 14: Draft Federal Act amending the Law on Working Time, the Labour Peace Act and the Employment Security Act 1991, including the title and receipt in 1441 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimously accepted again. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is once again unanimity and therefore also accepted at third reading. Agenda item 15: Draft Federal Act amending the Labour Constitution Act in 1442 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Muchich, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, and a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, there is a desire for separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and on the request for separate votes, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of paragraphs 2a, 3a, 6a and 7a. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional or amendment which has the content of inserting a new Z 1 and the resulting renumbering. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall be voting separately on paragraphs 1 to 4, 6 and 7 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen concerning Z 8. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mrs Z8. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is again accepted by the majority and thus also at third reading. Agenda item 16: Draft Federal Act amending the Labour Market Service Act, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, in 1344 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Article 3. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 3 as amended by the Government template. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously adopted again and is therefore also adopted in third reading. Vote on agenda item 17: Draft federal law which amends the construction worker's holiday and handling law, the construction worker's bad weather compensation law 1957, the General Social Insurance Act and the Labour Market Policy Financing Act, including title and receipt in 1343 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is again accepted by the majority and thus also at third reading. Vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1445 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1446 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[12:07:19]] 20. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1331, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Pflegefondsgesetz is amended (1448 a.k.a.) 21. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1351, p._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the countries with which the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries on the joint promotion of the 24-hour care is amended (1449, e.g.) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1092/A(E) by Mr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on ensuring that the necessary care needs are met (1450 d.b.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1836/A(E) by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues on nationally uniform minimum staff keys in old and care homes (1451 d.b.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1866/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues in the field of pension adjustment by 1.3% in 2017, a compensatory allowance adjustment, the abolition of pension provisions for ASVG insured persons and the annual valorization of the care allowance (1452b.b.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1236/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues in the field of ‘Unique staff keys for nursing homes throughout Germany’ (1453 d.b.) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues with regard to the creation of a federal principle law on minimum security of demand (1454 d.b.) 27. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues in the field of health insurance protection for minimum insurance beneficiaries (1455 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9603	We come to points 20 to 27 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9631	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now it's about the care fund. We have heard so much about how great our social system is today. In the first debate, we heard about the pension of the large pensioners. But now it is about the very poor people in our country, which are those who depend on the care allowance, who need care. It is now positive to assess that the funding of the care fund is guaranteed for the next few years. So far, so good, but now I come to the big but and to the wormhead drop: It is a reflection of a society how it deals with the caregivers. We have experienced something in recent years, a gradual deterioration for this group of people. In the years 2011 and 2015, access to care levels 1 and 2 was drastically complicated; that is, it has become much, much harder for people to obtain care money at all. There was then a slight index adjustment in 2016 – that was celebrated as the very large increase it has not been – and that was clearly it again. Mr. Federal Minister, since the introduction of the care allowance, the care allowance has experienced a loss of value of about 30 percent. Now I'm going to clap off and celebrate how great the social system is – that's not quite clear to me now. Especially for this group of people who do not have a good lobby, who can no longer defend themselves, there must be an annual automatic valorization. I miss that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have put a request back in this direction, it has been rejected again and I cannot understand it honestly. It's money for everything, Even luxury pensioners get 100 €, only the poorest of the poor fall through the rust every year – every year! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That must be done now, because that is a very, very important social policy measure. You also have to think about it. I also think about the following, Minister of State: 85 percent of all caregivers are cared for at home in the family circle. If you had this achievement done by family members made by professionals, that would be a burden that goes into the billions, and the Republic could not afford it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, I believe that one should really allow a self-determined life for the older generation until the end, at least as long as these people want to be at home and be cared for. It must not depend on whether one can take care of itself or not, but there is also a social responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9697	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9718	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! About €2.5 billion is used by the Federal Government for care payers. About 5 percent of all people in Austria receive care money in Austria. Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, the care allowance was increased in 2009, increased in 2011 and increased in 2016. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, but...!]] [[Abg. New builder: Tell me how much!]] – I know it can still be a little more, but I would also like to say that the Federal Government is very well aware of the responsibility for people in need of care from my point of view. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the other hand, there is the support fund for caregivers – and you know that just as well, Mrs. Colleague – and there is the takeover of health insurance, pension insurance for caregivers. I think the Federal Government has also taken responsibility in this area, because we know that this is not always easy for caring families, and because it is a concern to all of us – and I am convinced that it is also a matter of providing the best possible care, but also to provide the best possible support for the caring family. I am really convinced and I would simply like to clarify this at the beginning, because it is always claimed that there is a care emergency in Austria that is being done too little for this in Austria: More than €2.5 billion will be spent on this. In addition – and this is what we decide in this block of the debate – in the coming years, some €1.9 billion will flow into the care funds for the countries or for the performance of the tasks in the countries. Even in recent years, €1.3 billion has been spent in the care fund to enable countries to carry out their task of providing quality care, providing different care, providing needs and needs-oriented care for people and also to expand care services. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I said anyway!]] It is also very important to me to say: We have also taken care of this care fund to ensure that the staff also find good working conditions in the nursing homes, in the care facilities, by also ensuring that members of the elevated service must be present at least on the day and also at night. That too, I think, is a very important contribution to the quality of care and also to the caregivers, because it is also important for them that they know that they can do good service. I think this is a very, very important contribution, which has been very successfully negotiated here by Federal Minister Stöger in the financial compensation. In addition – and I am particularly pleased – there will now also be funds for the expansion of hospice and palliative care. For this, there will be € 18 million from the federal government in the coming years. This is a very, very important measure that we have jointly drawn up in the “Wald at the End of Life” survey. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this, and also the two ladies who sit above, namely Liesl Pittermann and Mrs Klasnic, who have put themselves in the service of the good thing, so that we can really implement palliative care and hospice care across the board. – a warm thank you both! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In addition, there will also be funds for the 24-hour care, a care form that is widely accepted in Austria. There are about 25,000 “promoting cases” – under quotation marks – for the 24-hour care; and we also know that we need to discuss whether it is a good model. It is currently the model that many people choose and that many people really support in their care situation and care situation. It's, I'm convinced, a good package we're going to decide here. I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I would like to remind you that it has unfortunately not been possible to teach the inclusion fund for people with disabilities for personal assistance in the course of the financial compensatory negotiations. I would still ask all of us to make an effort to ensure that we can perhaps put forward a motion for a resolution at second reading. There is €300 million for the title Care, Social Affairs and Health. From this title one might also be able to finance personal assistance in the countries. It would be a great request for awareness-building to countries to actually implement personal assistance in all countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9830	The amendment tabled by Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9910	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e9931	Mr President. Minister! First of all, to the care fund: I can join my previous speaker in so far as it is very important that the care fund is also insured for the next five years and that the care fund has been developed in certain criteria. In fact, there are some instruments for ensuring quality, including the above-mentioned safeguarding of night services and so on. It is good that there is at least a tendency towards uniformization. I am convinced that there is still a lot of air up and not yet done; because I believe that the care and care for many people in Austria – and more and more will be needed – is not yet guaranteed. This makes me the first point to worry most about, which is the cost-damaging path. As it looks, there is a large sum available for this, but I fear that many countries will not get along with it or that this will happen at the expense of quality of the services. That is why I am very, very concerned. I would like us to look much more closely, to discuss more often how we ensure that people of old age are good with us, that they are properly cared for, and that their families – and these are very often women who care for at home in Austria – are insured. As I said, there's still a lot of air up there. Nevertheless, we agree because we believe it is important to ensure that this care fund is continued and secured for the next five years. I would now like to use a few more minutes for two more requests from me, which may not be completely accidental in this item on the agenda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – It is about minimum security, exactly, you have advised, Mr Cot. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... Error recognized!]] Perhaps I am one of the few who is still working on this issue at the end of the year. It has been very busy for me all year, and it has actually been a political mourning game in several files over several months. You have taken a massive part in it, you don't need to laugh now. [[Abg. New builder: Thank God! One of you has to do something!]] They have been heavily involved in the game and the competition of the four Ws, as I call them. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does four W mean?]] The ÖVP was also significantly involved in this, so to speak, you have screwed up each other. The four W: Who was taken away? For months we were busy with this: How do we take away what is in minimum security? [[Abg. Jannach: You should have taken away the luxury pensioners!]] Unfortunately, it has never been a question of how to secure and to look at what people need in order to improve them so that they can get out of minimum security and get back into the labour market that their housing needs are secured. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Maybe you'll tell the Minister responsible, that's his job!]] [[Abg. New builder: behind you he's sitting!]] All these were questions you didn't care about, which the ÖVP unfortunately torpeded on many occasions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. El Habbassi.]] In my opinion, solutions have come out that I do not think are reasonable, as in Upper Austria and Lower Austria – in Upper Austria with your participation – where families now have to live with a lid of €1,500. [[towards FPÖ]] [[Abg. Rädler: Perfectly away from reality! Where do you live?]] [[Abg. El Habbassi: Do you know how much single earners have?]] Show me how this works! It's embarrassing what happened this year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jannach.]] – I think you are so upset because you realize that it was somehow a story that at least now, as it is about Christmas, creates a little bad conscience in you. [[Mr Neubauer, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Jannach.]] They have participated in the competition of social downgrading, and it was more than embarrassing what happened this year. I'm ashamed of it, at least for what happened there. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I would be ashamed of your speech too!]] In a social state, as we call it, we should work on other instruments to safeguard against poverty and exclusion in that country. I would therefore like more support for the request I am actually talking about. It is about a federal basic law, so that the uniform security, the minimum security, from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler, looks the same, and it is ensured that people find a social network that they cannot pass through. You, Mr Rädler, have also been involved in coming from Lower Austria, and it is embarrassing what happened there last. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We will defend ourselves by means of legal means and support people who are disadvantaged by this. Look for Lower Austria, in your federal state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10144	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10165	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are pleased to welcome the two presidents of the new Hospice and Palliative Forum here today. We have recommended this forum here in the National Council, but now it is already working on high-speed tours. The two presidents, Dr. Elisabeth Pittermann and head of state a. D. Waltraud Klasnic, are already working on high-speed tours. – Honourable, I would like to say. For their commitment to this good thing, they deserve a very, very warm thank you. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly a happy message, we may also be happy together, we have succeeded in what we have been working for a long time: The expansion of hospice and palliative services is financed. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have set a common goal that no one in Austria should be left alone at the end of his life. We can now approach this goal. We want to put on the feet a rule financing from means of taxation, and a first step has now been taken. In the new financial compensation, the expansion of hospice and palliative services is awarded for the first time. For the next five years, this will add €90 million. Why is that so important to us? – There are currently large gaps in the supply. The hospice and palliative supply is only fully covered by around 50 percent across Austria. Hospice care is largely dependent on donations, which is an unbearable condition. That's why our goal is: Pain relief, donation must be possible for all people throughout Austria, including in their last phase of life, and we want to work for it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Thank you to all the colleagues who have been so committed to this goal, also to the participating ministers, to our Minister of Finance, who, in times like this, has ultimately made the money available – in a third funding, as we know. This will meet a very significant demand from the Parliamentary Committee on the Enquiry ‘Word at the End of Life’. That also means: A unanimous decision by the National Council, a joint will-consultation, is of great importance. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be nice if we could work on a cross-party basis in the near future and achieve improvements together for all those who need help. Another success is ensuring care for the next few years. I hear again and again, many people are worried about whether they also get the care if they need it, in high and adequate quality. The care is also financially secured for the next few years. What happens to the money? – 2021 is already more than €400 million. Most people have the heart's desire to be maintained in their own four walls, and that's why we also want to ensure 24-hour care, and that's why we also want to expand mobile care. Ladies and gentlemen, to ensure valueful care for all, to safeguard dignity at the end of life and to ensure for all, that is the goal. This is about social cohesion, about charity, about security, and it is worth working for. I am pleased that we are now moving one step closer to this goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10219	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10241	Mr President. Federal Minister! There are a number of applications for care. We will not be the only group in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Not because we don't want to see the money there, but because we believe that a sustainable solution to care is missing. We know that people are getting older and older, and we know that the theme of the care of the old and the needy people is becoming an ever-increasing one, and a continuation of the care fund by three or four years each does not bring us closer to this solution. We need to standardize once: What performance do we want to offer to citizens? We have, of course, federalism that comes across you. Mr Minister, I would like to take care of you with regard to the countries. It is only when we know what standard we want to offer to citizens that we can go to a financial calculation and derive from how much money it needs at all, and then citizens who do not agree with the standard that the state offers can provide for everything else in private. It is also extended the 24-hour care. We know that it is also about some very precarious situations of people working in this 24-hour care. This is nothing but an extension of the status quo. There is also a request from the Greens for a principle law on an Austrian-wide uniform minimum guarantee. I do not understand why Mr Obmann here is so excited by the Lower Austrian ÖVP National Councils when a uniform principle of minimum security is required. It can only be in the interest of the Members of the National Council – you are not Members of the Erwin Pröll here, but are representatives of the Austrian National Council – to get a uniform national standardisation. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: the Minister must negotiate this, please address the Minister! Stäger has huddled it!]] You can still adjust a little regionally, but we have to ensure a standard that applies to all in Austria. In an emergency situation, there must be no question of happiness in which state you are at home.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10275	The next speaker is Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10297	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! I come back briefly at the beginning to Mr Jannach's remarks: He accused us that the pensioner is actually not socially fair. [[Abg. Jannach: He's not fair either!]] Social justice can be interpreted differently. I remember when you were in government responsibility and the disabled or accident pensioners were taxed. [[Abg. Jannach: When was that?]] So, I think, the social hundred is ten times more just and socially just than this accident pension tax, because you took away money from people. We're giving people money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Very short to extend the care fund: Yes, we know that in the context of the financial compensation negotiations, it has also been agreed that the care fund – which was introduced by the Federal Minister other than Rudi Hundstorfer in 2009 – will be extended. For the years 2017 to 2021, about €2 billion are available, more precisely, €1,914 billion. Each year, the care fund provides targeted grants – in 2017 it is equipped with €350 million – and is increased by approximately 4.5 percent annually, so that this sum can be achieved by 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that an important point is the € 18 million devoted to palliative and hospice care. That is an essential point. We know very well how important this health care is, and these measures also come into a little more transparency. It has already been said: The number of qualified care staff present in the facilities and the availability of at least one call during the night hours are also regulated. Since the time is already advanced, I would like to focus very briefly on the 24-hour care. That's an important point. We know that the need for 24-hour care is increasing, as we also need more financial resources, which is guaranteed by these regulations. We invest in the 24-hour care, and this is very important because many people also want to be cared for at home. Mr. Federal Minister, you are responsible for this care, for these measures. I would like to congratulate you on this, because this care and the provision of these care products is an important point and also an appreciation. We take responsibility to our older generation. Congratulations, it was not easy at the financial compensatory negotiations to manage these funds.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10352	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10374	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Also from my side a warm greeting to God to the former head of the Styria. I'm glad you're here. I think it is very positive if people who are so rooted in society who have so much experience with a great network continue to work for social interests. In that sense, I thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is not to be denied: We have an ageing society, and this ageing society of course also demands us as a legislator, that is, care will be the great challenge of the future, and we as legislators must set the accompanying framework in such a way that care can also be done in dignity and, above all, in the way that people want. If we look at the figures, then we see that in the next few years more than 10,000 people are likely to need additional care each year. That is, if those vintages, born at the end of the 1930s, are now increasingly demanding care, then we have to see that we can also move more and more people to provide this care. We will also need 1,500 new homes per year, we will need 1,000 caregivers every year and we will need about 1,000 caregivers. At this point, a very warm thank you to each one who is willing to care for a person, give him time and treat him with dignity. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When we look at how care is done, we realize that the family environment is of enormous importance. Talking to older people, everyone says: I want to be taken care of at home. It is indeed that 85 percent of people have the great opportunity to stay at home in their familiar environment. to be cared for and cared for there. Of these 85 percent, 55 percent are maintained exclusively by family members. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not close our eyes! The generation of daughters, which has so far existed, who may not have been employed, who have done family work, will no longer be able to do so in the future. Many people themselves struggle for their existence, they are themselves up to 60. Life or in the future probably even longer in the profession and are required there in such a way that they can only provide difficult care. That is why it is good and right that we, as legislators, create as many variable care facilities and facilities as possible – care facilities, day care facilities, mobile care and much more. If we decide today on the care fund law, we will take a right step in this direction. In the homes, we don't need to think about anything, the problem is that the care staff are getting more and more under pressure, big. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] Many suffer burn-out and get out after a few years, because the pressure from the documentation obligations and many others becomes so great that they can spend little time on actual care. We should not forget that in all discussions, and we must look more closely at it. I already know that the care key is decided in the countries and now we have brought different levels of care into education: from nursing sciences to studies, to nursing assistants, to nurses, to Bachelors and much more. Let us see that at all these many levels of training, the quality of care is maintained and is not going down due to the cheaper training staff, which is also available. In this sense, once again, a rather warm thank you to every individual who lives. That's great, that's a great service to society. Let us help to ensure that care is maintained at a high level in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10446	Mr Stöger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10467	Mr President. High house! Dear Waltraud Klasnic, dear Liesl Pittermann, thank you for your work in the field of hospice and palliative work! We have a high level of care services in Austria and we have a high level of care, and that is why we do so because we cooperate well between the federal government, the countries and, above all, the many families that actually implement care and there is reasonable cooperation. Remember: We have introduced a bank levy, we have deliberately introduced a bank levy and have then said: What do we do with the money coming in? This was the basis for the introduction of the care fund, namely a care fund that has been paid €350 million, which is used to help the elderly in society to provide help to people who need help from others urgently to restore their dignity at the end of life. This is what we have done with the introduction of the bank levy, which should not be forgotten. This is a redistribution that comes where it is supposed to arrive, namely to the people who need help. We shall apply in this financial compensatory period. In addition, € 1.9 billion for this area. The care fund is increased, it will be spent at €417 million in 2021. In addition, we have planned € 18 million annually for hospice and palliative services – this is also new. It will ensure financing in this area. If you want to do so, we will have a quarter of a billion or 256 million € in addition in this field during the financial compensation period. [[Complementary of the Abg. Aubauer.]] Thank you. Furthermore, we have agreed to a qualitative development with the countries and also offered support. These are clear rules of staffing: What needs to be ensured in terms of quality? – We have agreed quality assurance systems and want to strengthen the knowledge of care science in care for people with dementia diseases in particular. – Thank you for being willing to extend the article-15a agreement over the 24-hour care. This is also an important aspect of care in Austria. Finally, let me say thank you to those people who care for others. It is usually a lot of women who do this care work in the families – thank you for that. I also thank the professional caregivers in all the facilities. What they do daily, day and night, deserves special respect. I would also like to thank you officially for this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] It is also important for me to point out the following point: You decided yesterday in the main committee that we also have health insurance for those people who receive minimum security. I think that's something very special. The Federal Government has fulfilled its task in the matter of minimum security. I invite the countries to carry out their tasks as well; the Federation has done its amount. In this respect, I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen in the House, for the exciting discussions in the Committee on Budgets and here in plenary, and especially for those discussions that have been marked by high appreciation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10528	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Huainigg has now been reported to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10552	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is a great success that the care fund is continued and also increased, € 350 million and the increases in the next five years by 4.5 percent each year are an important guarantee of care. I am particularly pleased that there is a special pot for hospice and palliative medicine, as requested by the Committee on Inquiry in Parliament. A total of €90 million will be available for this expansion in the coming years, which is really important so that life can be guaranteed in dignity until the end, so that one dies not by the hand of another, but by his hand. That's very important. Another point that was also discussed in the Committee is the personal assistance of people with disabilities. There are many people with disabilities who, like me, live with personal assistance, who are supported in everyday life – not only by holding microphones, as now, but also by eating. give, through companionships in everyday life, so that family members can also be supported, people with disabilities can lead a self-determined life and do not have to go to the nursing home. The National Council, by decision of all parties a few years ago, decided that the financial compensation should be negotiated with the countries. Unfortunately, this has not succeeded, but what has succeeded: There is now a point in the care fund, which is called “multihour daily companionship. ” This point needs to be further defined by the “care care” working group in the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is really important to me, Minister, that it is not only defined for the elderly, but that it is also possible to finance personal assistance from the fact that countries can also collect funds there in order to increase the offer of personal assistance. The countries have received additional €300 million each year for free use in the financial compensation, and I would ask you, Mr. Federal Minister, to really influence the countries whose competence and competence it is, that the offer for personal assistance is also financed from these funds. There is the working group “Personal Assistance” in the Social Ministry, which is certainly an important lever to find an agreement with disabled people and country representatives for a federal holistic arrangement. Yes, and by the way, I believe that human dignity should be enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10597	Mrs Lintl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10619	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Florence Nightingale took the view as early as 1850 that in addition to medical knowledge, nursing knowledge is also important, and has already written first writings on care theory at that time. Today, the standard is, and people in need of care have the security of getting the necessary care, whether through caring relatives, professional services, caring for homes or nursing homes. The Court of Auditors has criticised the fact that despite the creation of the care fund of around €1.3 billion, the funds are insufficient in view of the many people in need of care. Also, quality standards and transparency about performance and costs were not sufficiently guaranteed. The draft law before us today takes this into account. In particular, it should be noted that additional financial resources are provided for the extension of the hospice and palliative services. I would like to thank you at this point, Mrs Klasnic and Mrs. Dr. Pittermann, and all the staff of these facilities, the mobile care staff, the team members in the palliative stations and the many volunteers in the hospice area. They all do particularly valuable work through a dignified care of the sick and dying people and for their families. I also think particularly of those who offer a loving companionship for children. Palliative medical care is carried out in a stationary but also mobile manner. Especially the need for mobile care, which allows the sick to be cared for at home in a family environment, is increasing. But the offer is still too small at the moment, and you also need many private donations. In order to ensure sufficient funding for care needs, my group calls for an annual automatic inflation adjustment of the care allowance and allowances for disabled people, because access to the care allowance has also been increased and the care allowance procedures often take too long. Nevertheless, the present amendment to the Social Fund Act is an important step in the right direction, and we are happy to agree to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10664	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10685	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I come briefly to Agenda items 26 and 27. Agenda item 27 on the request submitted by Mr Schwentner has been completed. The Federal Minister has already mentioned this. Yesterday, the decision was taken that the social security contributions of the Federal Government to the minimum insurance beneficiaries are still secured. On agenda item 26, which deals with minimum security and where opinions are very different: I also say that you really have to look at reality. We know how minimum security has been introduced, under conditions which are not comparable to those of today – we have been in full employment, the topic of refugees has not been on the table at all. [[Abg. Schwentner: Don't start saving on people!]] I believe that the proposals made by the federal states of Lower Austria and Upper Austria are the right way. Where to help is to help. [[Abg. Schwentner: That's a shame!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Hello!]] [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and FPÖ.]] That's quite clear: Where to help is to help. But we also have to look at the other group that is funding this system. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we look across Europe at how the social benefits are available for this area, Mrs Schwentner, we need not be ashamed of Austria, I tell you quite honestly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mrs Schwentner, I would like to say something about this: I come from one district, we fulfil the quota of the asylum seekers as well as anyone else, and as soon as the asylum seekers – listen to me! – the asylum seekers who have reached asylum status are gone. [[New call for tender Switzerland]] There's no one left in our district. We are also a tourist district, we are also looking for workers, we are looking for dishwashers. Many of these people would have the opportunity to go to the sink and do their services there. Why do 56 percent go to Vienna? Why don't they stay there? And why do we have to go back to Hungary to the labour market to get dishwashers? Isn't that reasonable? If there is already a need for protection when assistance is provided, work must also be done! That's what I'm saying quite clearly. It is a gratification, and the position of the ÖVP is quite clear: It is to help where to help!, but one must also be clear: The system, as it is at the table, is out of lot and can no longer be financed. So it is not fair for those people who make sure that we are a tangible social state in Europe and all over the world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10793	The next speaker is Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10820	Mr President. Minister! High house! Believers at home! Mr Stöger, I do not want to overdo the pre-Christmas coalition peace between red and black, but I think it is necessary to take a clear look at certain key figures in the social field, so I would like to refer briefly here. The current record unemployment rate is around 450 000 people who are unemployed, which was 300 000 five years ago. I would like to mention that about 50 000 people are missing from the AMS statistics. These are all those who get a transitional allowance, who are particularly ill or similar – just as much to these statistics. In addition, 300 000 persons are covered by the minimum guarantee, which was 180 000 persons five years ago; 185 000 people are in distress, which were 100 000 people five years ago, and 80 000 are asylum seekers in basic care, which were 20 000 five years ago. I believe that anyone here in the room who can think clearly and also calculate will be aware that our social system has not been able to endure this development over the past five years and is therefore facing a very massive problem. I now come to the minimum level of security, which is the main issue today. Mrs Schwentner, very briefly It is addressed: I don't care about your personal soul's salvation. You are not sitting here in Parliament to find your soul's salvation. You can look everywhere, just not in Parliament. You should sit here in Parliament to find the Austrian solutions, Mrs Schwentner! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] That and not your personal soul healing would be your task. Nobody's interested in this. [[Call: What would your solution be?]] [[Abg. Schwentner: We are waiting for it all the time!]] Mrs Schwentner, I would like to tell you – listen to me! –: If you think of social justice, if you think of the greens of social justice, then think of the African drug dealer and his minimum security. [[Abg. Schwentner: Yes, that's what we're thinking...!]] [[Abg. Schwentner: Unlike you, we think about it!]] When I think of social justice, I think of the 70-year-old Austrian, a minimum pensioner sitting in an unheated apartment. That, Mrs. Schwentner, is the difference between us two. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For minimum security explained very briefly – it is not quite easy –: There is a sovereign and a private law. I'm going to take care of the private law, and I'm going to take care of it. In the case of sovereign minimum security, there is a division of costs, 60 percent of the federal government pays, 40 percent of the federal states, and then there is a redistribution of costs at country level: 60 to 70 percent pay the respective federal state and 30 to 40 percent pay the municipalities. This division currently costs taxpayers approximately € 2 billion a year, and it is not surprising to me that the federal system has failed. Mrs Schwentner, I would like to congratulate you on this. As a liberal, we have managed at least to convince the ÖVP once to act in real political terms. There are still some real politicians. In the SPÖ there is still a majority who simply do not want to take note of these facts. But we will continue to fight in the sense of the Austrians and also the taxpayers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A brief objection towards NEOS: Mr Loacker, Mrs Gamon, you should eventually find a congruent line. If you are concerned about the future of the population, the boys in Austria, then you should not be blind on the left eye because this development is threatening the future of our youth. You should also take note of this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you have to say about it: It has always dizzyed – I say so very consciously – Minister Hundstorfer. I say it carefully not to say “lying”: Minister Stäger is dwindling the same way. You, of course, Minister, know exactly the figures of the federal states. You know the statistics. However, you always claim that this is an article 15a agreement and you must not know that. You know, of course, you just don't want to tell it, because the truth behind it is political explosive. That's, please, not reasonable. The population must and must know what the minimum security costs us. I can still give you a few numbers: 50 percent of the minimum insurance beneficiaries are non-Austrian. This is different depending on the federal state, partly members of more than 100 nations who get it. The greatest injustice from my point of view is that only the Austrians are controlled. For all others, it is not checked whether they meet the requirements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] – Mrs Schwentner! How's that going? How do you want to control whether someone in Eritrea has any wealth, additional income or anything? That's a humbug! Only the Austrian will be controlled! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll cut it off for a little while. The truth is: 90 percent of all asylum seekers coming and receiving asylum rights are in minimum security; these figures are now even confirming the AMS, which is perfectly clear. All the measures taken by Red and Black in this area to create opportunities for entry into work have failed. Grandios failed! That is clear from the figures. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can also say a little bit about the sums. Mrs. Schwentner, take care of yourself. You talked about pensioners earlier. The average pension in Austria is 1 102 € gross – I always emphasize: gross! The minimum security shall be reported net. Do you know what a single person in Tirol gets net of minimum security? This is what the Court of Auditors has raised: 1 150 € net. That's what the Court of Auditors report says, you can read it. These figures up to the modest over €3 000, €4,000 are unfortunately reality. The population will no longer accept this, and we cannot pay it any more. So simple is reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also give you a small example – and this is the reason why the ÖVP is turning a little bit – at community level. I announce to you from my municipality of Mils, a 4,000-inhabitant municipality, the development of the state-of-the-art minimum guarantee over the last five years. We in Mils paid €64 000 in 2011. Do you know how high the amount prescribed by the country of Tyrol is for 2017? – 2011: 64 000 €; 2017: 233 000 €! In my community of Mils! This development, and everyone who is a little concerned with reality, is no longer portable. And above all, I ask the SPÖ and the Minister to return to reality again and not to present an X for a U to the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Stop the whole thing!]] The final rate, quite simply: We liberals want the minimum guarantee for Austrian citizens and for no one else – and everyone else please return to basic care! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10977	I call Mr Doppler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e10998	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Care Fund Act has good approaches. On this occasion, I should like to thank all the people who are employed in the field, who are caring for people, but also very much for their family members, for they are also doing great things in this area. A warm thank you from this point, ladies and gentlemen! [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Lugar.]] It is true and has already been mentioned that, in accordance with Article 15a of the Agreement, the responsibility for setting the standards of performance in nursing homes lies in the Federal territory of the Federal Republic of Germany. The staff key should be oriented to the goal of quality care, and this staff key is too low in some federal states. Workers have overtime there, do great things, cannot reduce overtime and do not consume time. The main objective of the Social Fund Act is to harmonise social services for older and in need of care in Austria. In this sense, it would be targeted and important to make federal uniform requirements in terms of staff sharing in old age and care homes, so that older people continue to be well cared for and staff have proper working conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11038	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Draft Federal Act amending the Care Fund Act, together with the title and receipt in 1331 of the Supplements. Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Muchitsch, Wöginger, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment relating to Sections 5, 7 and 11. Whoever speaks for him, I ask him for an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 21. Request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the present agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the countries with which the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries on the joint promotion of the 24-hour care is amended, to be approved in 1351 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1450 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1451 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1452 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1453 of the supplements. Here again, in the case of approval, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 26: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1454 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1455 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[13:08:25]] 28. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1332, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a Financial Balance Act 2017 and the Financial Balance Act 1997, the Financial Balance Act 2001, the Financial Balance Act 2005, the Financial Balance Act 2008, the Environmental Funding Act, the Health and Social Assistance Act and the Federal Care Money Act and the Needs Assignment Act are repealed. Amendment No 1170/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Mr Strolz, colleagues on the Unbundling of Transfers in the framework of the Financial Balance Reform and the Amendment No 1167/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues on tax autonomy for countries and municipalities (1393 d.b.) 29. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1364, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the countries in which rules on liability are harmonised – HOG agreement (1394 d.a.) 30. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1352, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Re-establishment Tax Act, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Gambling Act, the Municipal Tax Act 1993, the Transfer Price Documentation Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Tax Administration Organisation Act 2010, the Federal Financial Court Act, the Tax Code, the Mineral Oil Tax Act 1995, the Tobacco Monopol Act 1996, the Transparency Database Act 2012, the Stability Tax Act and the Insurance Tax Act 1953 (AbgÄG 2016) (1392 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11240	We now come to points 28 to 30 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr MMag came to speak. DDr. Fuchs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11267	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! To item on the agenda 28, Financial Balance Act 2017: If you read through the main aspects of the draft law in the financial compensation legislation, this is a single declaration of bankruptcy. Mr. Finanzminister, you're an announcement world champion. It makes no sense to include in the legislative materials what you have discussed in the course of the negotiations and have not finally implemented it. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Read today’s “Kurier”, then you know!]] The Ministry of Finance will only implement its tasks in the field of elementary education from 2018 onwards and from 2019 in the field of compulsory schooling. That's just a drop on the hot stone, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As of 2020 and 2021, the Minister of Finance intends to extend the task orientation to other areas – in which areas, however, the Minister of Finance does not yet know, he wants to agree. And the contribution to housing development will become an exclusive country tax from 2018 onwards. This is understood by the Minister of Finance as the increased tax autonomy of the countries that the countries actually do not want at all. Unfortunately, a commitment to the construction of housing is still not planned, and a state reform is to be prepared by 2018. – Clear announcements! I find the new favorite word of the Minister of Finance particularly annoying: Donation Reviews. In the legislative materials, it says: “With benchmarking and donation reviews, new instruments for administrative reforms have been agreed.” You have already mentioned this in your budget speech, which I may briefly quote here. ‘Both tasks and expenditure in each sector shall be examined on the following criteria: Are they contemporary? Are they necessary? Are you bringing the desired results? Where are there useful approaches to improvements? Where can tasks best be performed? [...] In my house – that is, in the Ministry of Finance – “two corresponding pilot projects are already under way.” Mr Finanzminister! These are all things that are of course for an entrepreneur. I would actually have thought that this is a matter of course in the ministries and especially in the Ministry of Finance. [[Federal Minister Schelling: An error!]] And you, Minister of Finance, boast of having set up two pilot projects in your home that question the sensibleness of expenditure in your home. – A game of mourning, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is no need to wonder about the quality of this financial compensation. This is not an entry into the transition, as the Minister of Finance likes to call it, but an unused opportunity. The transfer chaos in the financial balance remains upright, we are miles away from a task orientation in the financial compensation, and therefore the FPÖ will not, of course, agree to this financial compensation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11343	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Big. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11364	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners, dear listeners! At this item on the agenda, we will discuss several legislative proposals. I'm starting with the Tax Change Act 2016. And that's where I grab out a few points that are especially important to all of us. I will start with the reduction of the bank levy. This was introduced in 2011 to ensure the stabilisation of banks. The environment has changed dramatically in the meantime. There is the European resolution fund, the national deposit guarantee fund, and these multiple charges automatically result in the the banks are seeking to reduce the balance sheet amounts, which in turn has a negative impact on the willingness to lend. Moreover, the low interest rate level is not particularly helpful in order to bring success to banks. With the reduction of the bank levy, we increase competitiveness, international competitiveness and ensure the continued existence of the good infrastructure that banks offer throughout Austria. At the same time, with the one-time payment associated with it, we are able to finance the educational reforms that we decided yesterday accordingly accordingly. The second important point, which is contained in this Amendment Act, concerns a small part of the VAT, namely the tax liability for short-term rent. This does not sound particularly exciting, but it helps many to rent the individual rooms for a day or a week to a non-pre-taxable entrepreneur, because the person then no longer needs to make a daily pre-tax correction, which has led to a sense of bureaucracy. Thank you very much for catching this red tape with the tax duty on short-term rent! The third point I would like to address is procedural assistance for federal and regional financial courts. Especially when an entrepreneur gets into an economic crisis, it often comes to procedures. The shabby leads to him not having the money to take a defender who helps him get out of this dead end. It comes to procedures without defense, one time or another it does not come to a judgment as it would be right. That is why we are introducing a procedural aid which can be provided by tax advisors and lawyers. On these and other points, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this last paragraph I have just read, we ensure that access to justice is guaranteed in administrative matters. I would like to thank you here in exchange for many people who need it. A few words about the Financial Balance Act: The financial compensation regulates the distribution of funds between the federal, state and local authorities. Most of them are distributed according to a graded population key, especially among the municipalities. There are, of course, injustices, because this graded population key is still from the post-war period. With our Minister of Finance, we have made it our lead that we are starting to cut down this unjust distribution key by moving on to task orientation. However, we have not yet achieved that he has really been completely abolished. A very important part is therefore the setting up of a Structural Funds specifically for low-structural communities. We shall put this in line with the amendment. The Structural Funds will be spent at €60 million and will be allocated to small communities. As a representative of the forest district, I am pleased that in my constituency, 80 percent of the municipalities will be beneficiaries of this Structural Funds, so that rural financial resources can be ensured. In this context, I would like to thank colleagues from the ÖVP Club who, together with me, have established the ARGE for justice in the financial balance and have made massive progress on this issue. I would also like to thank the almost 600 municipalities and mayors who have also adopted resolutions on this subject. That is why we can now put it in the right direction with a good step. I am particularly grateful to the Federal Minister, who has made the move to move on to the task orientation. Thank you, however, for starting to introduce tax autonomy. The greatest thanks – not only on my behalf, but, as I believe, on behalf of all the structurally weak regions – are due to the fact that we have set up the Structural Funds in such a way that our small financially weak communities can get more resources and thus fulfil their tasks accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11477	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. In the future, I would just ask you to ensure that the first names of the honourable Members are properly mentioned. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11585	The honourable Member, Mr Krainer, is now on the floor. - Please. [[Abg. Krainer: I don't believe that! Mr Rossmann!]] [[Abg. Kogler: We all work together!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Otherwise I would be counter-redner!]] - Excuse me! Mr Rossmann, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11661	Mr President. Minister Schelling! High house! For at least 40 years, we have been aware of the need for reform of the financial compensation, since there was the first major financial compensation report under the direction of Professor Egon Matzner. Since then, we have experienced a standstill – 40 years. Switzerland has needed 15 years for a change, you always say, Minister of Finance. If I look at this new financial balance, I see it doesn't change this standstill. While you have set yourself high targets, Minister of Finance, by saying in your budget speech in the previous year that the financial compensation in its present form is impenetrable and also inefficient by many financial flows, as it is urgent to clean up. Unfortunately, I miss these cleanups. The financial compensation will remain inefficient and its structures will continue to provide incentives to waste public taxpayers' money. That's a problem. The financial compensation is still perceived as a huge redistribution machine, although it could be much more: an important instrument for achieving other economic and climate objectives, environmental objectives, sustainable economic growth, climate change measures and more. However, we should have set targets for this. That's not gonna happen. If there are some obvious steps that have already been addressed towards improved structures, with task orientation in the field of childcare, or with the introduction into increased tax autonomy of countries, then I must say that these have remained extremely modest steps. Let's start with the task orientation. This is an area, but many things have remained open, such as the definition of the criteria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] You've always said that's not true. I agree with the budget service, which criticizes it as much as I do, who sees it as I do. Where do you want to handle this? – In a regulation you want to regulate this, that is, you want to regulate it by Parliament. I don't like that, nor do I like the budget service. If you believe that this will make a step towards unbundling of transfer streams. - Oh, what a great mistake, Minister of Finance, I can only say. The transfer chaos remains, task and funding are not merged in any area. Unfortunately, this is the sad truth. What about the tax autonomy? – This would be an important step in itself. However, they are limited to the contribution to housing development, thus increasing the tax autonomy in terms of incomes from 1 per cent to 5 per cent of all the funds to be allocated to the countries. That's a drop on the hot stone. The countries are also watering this by trying to undermine their autonomy in so far as they say: If we make a change in the tariffs in the housing promotion contribution, then we just want to do that in accordance! In fact, this has nothing to do with a reform. If some simplified steps are taken in the financial compensation, namely in the distribution of income shares, that is in itself good, yes, I welcome that, but that does not constitute an overall reform. If I look at the fact that the national financial balances are now being placed exclusively in the hands of the countries without the municipalities having sayful rights, I think that is a step back, combined with the risk that the autonomy of the communities will be further eroded, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen: The many mayors among you sitting here in this room would actually have to yell up. In Lower Austria, the blacks may be Municipalities well served, in red federal states the red communities, but in reality this is a hallucination of the autonomy of the communities that cannot be taken away! Mr. Finanzminister, if you are talking about making spending reviews now and that a state reform is to be prepared by 2018 – well, I just don't believe it. In fact, we've been having spending reviews for decades, which has always been called task critique. Now it's being re-named, but it won't change anything. As an Austrian learnt, I can no longer believe in a total reform of federalism in Austria by the end of 2018 and a development of the same in reality. That's best in Sunday's speeches, but on Monday's all this has been forgotten for a long time. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] The conclusion as a whole is... [[Federal Minister Schelling:... Send applications to Landtage!]] – We have made enough applications under the Austrian Convention, Minister of Finance, all of them have been ignored! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Schelling.]] Look Once you do this, and then we'll be happy to talk about it, I'm ready at any time. The structural shortcomings therefore remain essentially, and we must continue to wait for a reform. Perhaps we should take a bond with Switzerland and devote ourselves to the reform process more closely. How did the Swiss make it? – They needed 15 years, that's long. We have been waiting for a reform for more than four decades. The Swiss have started with an opinion: Five financial scientists led by René Frey from Basel laid the basis for this. Then there was a five-year debate in the Swiss Parliament, and there took part in a public debate: Economists, political scientists, lawyers, media. With us, however, everything takes place behind closed doors. These are special-class mussels. There's nothing else to go on! Although there was also a loss in Switzerland among the cantons, there was a referendum on this, and this was adopted by 64.4 percent of Swiss citizens! The majority of cantons have also agreed, although ten out of 26 cantons have lost. Now you have to translate this and then you can look at what our Mr. Landes Captain Wallner says from Vorarlberg. It is quoted as follows: “Under the rule, count how much money flows to Vorarlberg and how freely the country can decide about it,” Vorarlberg said, “to return what Vorarlberg pays, then you’ll be ready to support others.” [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] With this spirit, Minister of Finance, there is no way to start a reform process in Switzerland, which is impossible. As long as this spirit determines the negotiations, there will be no reforms in Austria. We'll wait another 40 years. So end with the idea of possession, ending with old patterns of thought, with a constructive federalism, with public negotiations in which all relevant forces can participate in that country! Then perhaps we have a chance to actually come to a reformed financial compensation and a reformed federalism in Austria. The chances are there, we use them!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11742	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11773	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think we've been waiting for 40 years, maybe my colleague's waiting. Rossmann has been looking for a reform of the financial balance for 40 years, because it really looks different today than it was 40 years ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] What was demanded before the negotiations, namely a start to a task orientation, was implemented. The entrance has become even bigger than one originally planned; there was at all only thought of implementing this in the kindergarten area, but now, in reality, further steps have been implemented. You must not forget one thing: The essential step towards a reform at all is a uniform accounting system for each country. The problem in the past was that each federal country has managed its accounts according to its own rules – what is booked where – and therefore the comparability was not given. We have then decided here in the House rules which apply to all, namely to all the federal states. Now we are only in a position to compare seriously what the federal state is doing, which is particularly efficient, particularly good at its tasks, and which federal state is much worse. This is an important first step in that you can only make spending reviews – or whatever that means now – that you can simply compare between the federal states and that you can only do this task orientation more widely. In that respect, I think, this financial compensation meets precisely these expectations or, in fact, almost more than was discussed in the negotiations. The expectations are not under-fulfilled, but the opposite is the case. It is also very, very important that, through this financial compensation, there is more public investment. A few weeks ago, we decided on the budget at the federal level and said: not a savings budget, but an investment budget. We must address unemployment, and we will not achieve this through savings in investment or savings in public services, but through future investment, through investment in infrastructure, investment in education, research, development and cetera. The financial compensation also includes this area: There is more money for the communities, for the countries, for investments in the future areas that are important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is also more money for those areas where we know that we will need more money. Just yesterday, we discussed the health costs at the federal level: Yes, they rise every year, every year there is 3.2 percent more money than in the year before – much more than economic growth. Also in the FAG, in the Financial Balance Act you can see: Yes, there is more money for health, there is more money for care, there is more money for social things. These are the areas in which we know that we have to expect greater expenditure for the future, and this is clearly illustrated here, also for the communities, so that it is clear that these important tasks remain financially viable. What is not sufficiently contained, which has already been mentioned in the previous debate, is the question of personal assistance. It is important that you, Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Social Affairs, continue to do so. Keep the ball so that the countries can implement it. Personal assistance is a task of the countries, and unfortunately there is always a need for an instigation by the federal government, so that something happens. I know you both put this into the negotiations, but it's necessary to stay at the ball. You have not only the support of the disabled speakers, but of the whole house, I think. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One last word on tax autonomy: Autonomy always sounds good, according to self-determination, but quite honestly: We are always talking about harmful tax competition at European level, where tax dumping occurs, where very small parts of society do not make their tax contribution, but pay less. That is why schools and kindergartens will not be cheaper, but the one who cannot judge it will have to pay more. What an advantage it is if we have not yet been able to explain to me this tax competition, which we already have between 28 states in the European Union, even in Austria among nine federal states. In fact, the federal states are very wise when they say: We remain at uniform rates, because we do not want to be a ruinous tax competition, which only helps a few of the companies. Whether it's Apple, Starbucks, Stronach or anyone else, it's about everyone making their fair contribution, and it's not supposed to come to a competition where there's only a few at the expense of the majority. So we have always been against a tax competition in Austria and stick to it: We think it is wrong at European level and also at Austrian level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11868	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11889	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister Schelling! The new financial compensation is for the debate. It is no less than the distribution of over €80 billion in tax revenue between the federal, state and local authorities. The announcements before this negotiation process began were very large: The jungle of these impermeable payments flows between the federal, state and local authorities, which themselves no longer understand experts, should be highlighted, the subject of tax autonomy for countries should be addressed, and, incidentally, federalism should also be reformed – that is, what we call federalism in Austria, which, however, has nothing to do with federalism. What is the result of one and a half years of negotiations? – The financial compensation, this transfer chaos between the federal government, countries and municipalities, remains just as opaque as before. That means that even that swamp, in which billions of tax money are free of profit, remains intact. The question of tax autonomy will be moved into a working group. – Well, that’s the good Austrian way to finally bury an annoying topic. The state reform is expected to come by 2018. – Well, sure, now that the lever of the financial compensation is gone, the state reform is to come. In doing so, this lever of financial compensation, the lever of money, would be the only lever that could trigger a state reform. - That's from the table now. That's what it's like, too. the negotiating mass away, and now we should believe that the big state reform is to come by 2018. What's the conclusion? – Everything remains with the old, the standstill rules unfortunately. A great opportunity has been denied, a great opportunity to modernise our country. Unfortunately, once again the preventers and blockers in your ranks have prevailed, dear SPÖ and ÖVP, in the ranks of the national leaders, once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11934	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e11956	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the television screens! After listening to my previous speakers from the opposition parties, I have to say one thing: I don't know if anyone has really gone into the depths of this financial compensation law. At the outset, Mr Fuchs said he was against this financial compensation law. If you look at this in depth and you know what the goal was in the beginning, I say as a representative of rural areas and small communities: The real winners of this financial compensation, which took place there, are the small, structurally weak communities. I do not know who of you Members once looked at the list, which means for the small communities. I come from a community with 183 square kilometres and 1,500 inhabitants. For our community and for our mayor, I say quite honestly, it was a jubilation when he heard how much more our community, alone the community of Lesachtal, gets. This concerns all the structurally weak communities, totaling €60 million. There the small communities have cut off much better than if they had changed the population key. That's the better system. Take a look at it in the depths and take a look at what this has brought to the small communities! I am proud that I can sit here and decide to do so and cut off the small, structurally weak communities, as I have said, in this decision of the Financial Balance Act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the second point, I would like to add briefly to the limit of liability, which will also be decided. We know what happened in Carinthia: At the time, there were liabilities at the twelve-fold level of the budget. What that meant for Carinthia and the League is probably still in our memory. Now there is this liability limit of 1.75 percent and for the municipalities of 0.75 percent, which is important. One has learned from the mistakes of the past, from what happened in Carinthia with the hypo and with the liabilities of the country Carinthia at that time. We all know that such a thing cannot happen in the future. For the small, structurally weak communities today is a good day – not just a good day, but a very, very good day. As has been said, we MEPs from the regions can go home proudly and announce to our mayors what we have succeeded. Mr Finanzminister, thank you many times for your consistent, clear, good attitude that you are going out into the regions and especially to the structurally weak communities. see and have achieved this success! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12010	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12031	Mr President. High house! My dear viewers, even in front of the televisions! I'm going to explain briefly what this is all about. We are talking about financial compensation, and we can bring it to a simple formula: The League is lifting up, and the countries are spending. That's the system we're doing. It means that taxes are taken, the countries get their share and then simply spend this money. There is neither transparency nor any influence that they actually do with this money. Now, of course, the countries have a great interest in spending the money the way it benefits them. – You already remember, the citizen is not yet in conversation, but it is about the national heads of the country so that they win again at the next election, i.e. the money will also be spent to make good moods in the electorate. That is why the countries, of course, do not want to talk to them. The Court of Auditors has said practically for 40 years – 40 years have already successfully prevented the countries from having reforms – that something must finally happen. We give €35 billion, without knowing what will be done with it, without having any influence and without controlling whether this money is used properly. Now the Court of Auditors has repeatedly said what would change everything and how we could use this money that we give to the countries, in the sense of pensioners and all the places where the money is missing – as we know, the money is also lacking in education – much better for other purposes. We've known that for 40 years. The Court of Auditors keeps saying this again and again, all the experts, no matter which party, but mainly the opposition parties, say that, but nothing happens. The question is why, and I would like to explain why. It's actually quite logical: There is nothing to happen, therefore, because the representatives of the two government parties here in the House are being sent almost 100 percent by the countries, that is, the countries are making these so-called country lists. The Members who sit here, these are not representatives who are obliged to Austria, but these are representatives who are obliged to Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Salzburg are obliged. [[Call:And the Frank]] This is the same way that Parliament is being composed. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now, of course, it is possible to imagine that the Members who come from Lower Austria have no interest at all in biting their legs to the emperor in Lower Austria, Erwin Pröll; this is understandable, and of course they do not. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Weninger and Königsberger-Ludwig]] But it's getting worse! It is not just the composition of the House, especially with the government parties, but it is even worse: the head of the Finance Minister. – For all those who do not know: This is not the citizen, that is the one who put him on the chair, and that is in the case of the partyobmann. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger]] And how does the partyobmann become partyobmann? - He'll be elected. And by whom will he be elected? – Well, by the heads of state, by the national organizations and the frontal organizations. - That's how it works. That means no matter how we turn it or turn it: How do we ever want to make a reform against the countries to finally take the countries to the Canadians once the system is built in such a way that they have resisted any reform for 40 years and can probably defend themselves against this reform for 40 more years? Since I do not want to release you too depressive today after my speech: There is one solution – in fact, there are two solutions – to this problem. [[Abg. Wenninger: But you're not at...!]] The first solution, that would have been my favorite solution – that was exactly when you came, Minister of Finance, I believed that this solution is feasible, because you are independent: You, Mr Finanzminister, go out as a politician and are not a supply case, but you stand on your own feet and have the opportunity to do what is to be done, namely to oppose the countries. You have the opportunity, at the same time as the financial compensation, where you can also force the countries to turn their hands on the money tap. But you are apparently not ready for this, the courage seems to lack you. I don't know why, because you're not financially dependent on what you're doing. You could do something good for Austria and then resign in dignity. You could do that, because of course you would have to resign if you did something against the countries, that's no question, but you could leave something behind, and probably their grandchildren would still be proud of you. You don't want to take this chance. Then there is only the second possibility, and the second possibility is that we need a parliament that is different, from Members of Parliament who are elected again by the national organizations, but from opposition parties who are not arrested in national organizations that do not have national heads, because then we can change something. [[Abg. Wenninger: You can do that...!]] As long as this House is governed by two political groups, who are practically all heads of state in this country and also depend on all these heads of state, as long as this is the case here in the House, nothing will change for so long. Therefore – I repeat it again – there are two possibilities: Either You will be brave, do what is necessary, even if you know that it will ultimately cost you your head – because the heads of state will of course let you down, that is not a question, but you have at least done something good for Austria – or we will have to take care of new majority in this House so that we can finally free ourselves from the heads of state. Then we can make a reform, and then we can really look at them, what you really do with these €35 billion that we would need in the Federal Budget so urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12109	Next, Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12131	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Before: Mr Lugar, my colleagues and I have not been sent by the heads of state, as you call it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Well, what else?]] The positions of local politicians diverge something: Some say it could have been more in the financial balance than others say that the communities are not so bad at all. – Both are somehow right. Of course, the financial needs of the municipalities remain very high. The recently published financial prognosis of the Municipal Government shows that the municipalities will have to spend more money in the next few years by assigning the tasks they have than they have available. The municipalities are the most important public investor and thus also the train number one for economic development. They will continue to fill out this important role in the coming years and resolve bravouros, even though, as my colleague has already mentioned, the social, health, education and refugee care sectors will be very affected by the budget. I think – and this has already been mentioned – that it is very positive that, in the financial balance, the task orientation has already been achieved in a first step, with the pilot project Childcare. There have been shifts in the right direction, and if we continue like this, then a foundation stone is laid. Let's give the municipalities the means they need! I am very pleased that I have a amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Groiß, Krainer, colleagues and colleagues on the Government template concerning the Federal Act adopting a Financial Balance Act 2017 and the Financial Balance Act 1997, the Financial Balance Act 2001, the Financial Balance Act 2005, the Financial Balance Act 2008, the Environmental Promotion Act, the Health and Social Assistance Act and the Federal Care Money Act, and the Needs Assignment Act may be repealed, 1332 of the Supplements, as amended by the Committee Report, 1393 of the Supplements. The proposal is before you, but I should like to comment on two points which I would like to highlight very much: First: Municipalities whose income shares are growing below the minimum level compared to the previous year, i.e. the year 2016, will receive an increase. – I don’t need to carry this out now, but I think that’s very positive. The second point – and it has already been mentioned today – is the Structural Funds, namely that there is it and that the population development is taken into account, the dependency ratio, the financial strength of the municipality and the determination of the national share. So I think that there are more financial resources for the municipalities! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12176	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12399	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Haider. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12420	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! No previous speaker has yet spoken about figures, so I will say what or what figures are involved in this financial compensation at all. The total amount of transfers to countries and municipalities by the federal government is €25.7 billion, with almost €16 billion to the countries and €9.7 billion to the municipalities. As of 2017, the municipalities will receive €300 million for their own purpose and €125 million for the management of the migration storm. However, what is hidden from these figures is the once again failure of a Minister of Finance to achieve a fundamental reform, because if you look at the major objectives that the Minister of Finance has had when he went into the negotiations with the countries – the merger of revenue and expenditure responsibility or, for example, the introduction of the task orientation – you have to say: The Lord Minister of Finance has also failed grandly once again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Mr Financiary Minister, you are there in a chronology of failure, for let us remind your predecessor Josef Pröll: He has already tried to carry out fundamental reforms in this respect in 2010; he has failed to do so, especially in Lower Austria and Vienna. At the time, there was an attempt to introduce a little transparency with a transparency database, but it does not work until today. But why – we can now ask this question – do some national leaders so strongly oppose the merger of revenue and expenditure responsibility, i.e. against measures that should actually strengthen federalism? – The answer is as simple as cheap: It's much easier to distribute money that someone else has to move in. Otherwise, the national leaders would have to justify budgetary transfers and related tax increases before their voters. This is an extremely unpleasant scenario for so many heads of state, and that is why tax autonomy is also rejected. The task orientation is similar: A departure from the distribution key by population could be at the disadvantage of the most populous federal state. This also explains the SPÖ's resistance, which, by the way, has provided an increase in Vienna's debt by at least € 570 million. Finally, it is clear why the transparency database has not yet been implemented: because some countries obviously do not have transparency or a wooding of the funding jungle. Interestingly, the SPÖ Vienna is also resisting at the front. This is the Krux with this federal government: Even if, at least once, parts of this government want to reform, they fail at internal resistance: Once a powerful state captain is opposed, then again a union boss or any chamber officer – one is always against it and goes on doing nothing. And so, Mr Federal Minister, everything remains with the old and thus becomes worse from year to year, and taxpayers can only look out and get annoyed at the inaction of the government. But you, Minister of Finance, do not need to be surprised on the election day if you are presented with the token for this disastrous government policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12490	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12512	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Before I come to my explanations, I can welcome a school class from my home community, the New Middle School Großwarasdorf, Veliki Borištof. Welcome! Dobro došli ovdje Parliamentu! [[General condolences.]] When you look at individual speeches here, you feel turned back into the Wild West: If Mr. Klubobmann is fabricating Lugar von Häuptlingen, then one has the impression that he has been hanged in some Western ham. This is also an access to the financial balance, but it is only an access of the Apache warriors from the previous millennium and does not bring us a millimeter. This is ridiculous and ridiculous access to see it like that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] The truth is that there is, of course, such a big issue in all the bodies involved – that is clear! – and a finance minister or the negotiators face the great dilemma: Do we extend the financial compensation – then we do nothing – as it has always happened in the past, or do we try to turn on the wheelwork? – That’s exactly what happened, and that’s exactly what you have to do with Minister of Finance Schelling and the negotiators: that you’ve turned something on the wheel and it’s moving in the right direction. This is once the important approach. One example is the structurally weak, small communities. The countries get the money from the tax pot according to the population, and the municipalities do not. In the communities, not every citizen is worth the same amount, but this is done according to the so-called classified population key, and this is just what leads to injustices. A municipality such as mine, Großwarasdorf, gets for a citizen in about 700 € per year, and a large city like Vienna the double, about 1 400 €. This is not only felt by the mayors, it also feels that the local population is unfair, because it leads to the dilemma that the tasks are no longer to be done in this way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] And I want that... [[Abg. Matznetter:... tram!]] Of course, Mr Matznetter, we know that big cities have other tasks, we know that, but you are taking account of the figures! [[Abg. Matznetter: Yes, eh!]] In the last seven years, the Burgenian communities have had an increase in social expenditure of about 60 percent, and in the same period, because the municipalities lack the money, investments in infrastructure, training, childcare, education – and, and, – have fallen by 80 percent. [[Abg. Matznetter: And Vienna?]] It is therefore so important that something is moving now in the financial compensation process, including that there is more money for structurally weak communities, namely €60 million. This concerns, for example, a total of 70 percent of the municipalities in Burgenland. My community is also a community of refugees, because 5 to 10 percent of the population migrate every year, because there are not so many job opportunities, because the perspective is not so large. And it is for us politicians – no matter where you belong – the simple question: How can we ensure that there are not only decent living conditions in the urban area, but also in the country, in the rural area, where perhaps only more older people live? The older generation also has a right to proper health care, to a proper infrastructure. It must not be a matter of politics and government! That is why I also see, in conclusion, this introduction to the transition in the attempt to focus the tasks on childcare, because for the first time the graduated population key should no longer apply, but actually every child is worth the same amount. Of course, the detailed negotiations will result, and I hope that it will come to a good end, so that it really comes out what you often understand by distribution justice, namely that every child, every human being, is worth the same amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12599	Mr Mag. Loacker is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12622	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Obernosterer said that a lot had already been achieved in terms of what was the aim of the financial compensation at the outset. I recall a brief debate on a request from you, Minister of Finance, on how the Ministry of Finance is preparing itself for the financial compensatory negotiations and what your projects are. At that time, you wrote in the answer to the question: “Increasing tax autonomy, especially among the countries, will be one of the key issues of a fundamental reform of the financial balance” – and that you want a task-oriented financial compensation. Now you can see what came out: The Mayor and Deputy Mayor Members are looking forward to more money for their communities, but in reality that has happened, which was to be feared, namely that you are going to kneel before the Princes of the State. I also repeat what I said during this brief debate: “Previously, princes of the state, when they were pleading, attacked the neighbor. Today, they get together to 9th, go to Vienna and press out the Minister of Finance” – and this has once again succeeded the Prince of the State. [[Abg. Rossmann: You're pushing out the communities, Mr. Colleague! The communities through co-financing!]] Yes, the communities are also those who pay for it, especially because it is the countries that are supposed to pass the money on to the communities, and because it does not land directly with the municipalities. Thus, the national leaders can extortion their mayors, and red mayors must crawl to crosses in black heads so that they can get money for their work at all. [[Abg. Obernoster: But you don't know each other!]] – This is, of course, the case, Mr Obernosterer, even if it does not taste to you. [[Abg. Kogler: Everything true!]] A special example is the tax autonomy: This is where you will be holding back, Minister of State, from now on, the federal states are allowed to set the contribution to housing development autonomously. What happened there in the future was classic for the Austrian princes. All nine agreed immediately: We don't do anything and leave the housing promotion rates where they always were! If entrepreneurs did, then the cartel court would be on the mat the next day and would impose millions of severe penalties – right! But the princes may do so, they can continue to blow the money. It is true that three out of nine federal states alone from the backflows of open housing loans can serve annual housing support, and that what comes from the current contributions is simmering in the budget, in the Nirwana and does not benefit housing. The financial flows should light up, light would be the best disinfectant. Everything remains in the dark, is negotiated behind closed doors, and the financial flows will continue to run behind closed doors. Mr Federal Minister, you have failed with a pension reform, you have failed with a tax reform, the register was a disaster, and the financial compensation is now also one. Success reports look different.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12701	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12722	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already fallen to this day – according to the meaning – that the sun of knowledge is relatively deep, and if you listen to some speech, you can see: This also applies to the knowledge of financial compensation. Mr Lugar, I think it's great that you're worried about the ÖVP delegates to be the SPÖ delegates. You wish there were only more opposition parties. I'd rather, I know who my country keeper is and where I come from than how to be dependent on an oligarch who has actually deprived you of love and may not be there the next time. [[Abg. Kogler: Well! The Lopatka has been ruling this for a long time: fundamental government opposition!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Where are we?]] A little more to deal with matter would not be wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Where are we?]] We discuss, among other things, the financial compensation for the years 2017 to 2021. Who is really negotiating this? – The Finance Minister, the Finance Officers of the Länder, the Municipal Federation and the Municipal Government. These four partners share a compromise, and I believe that a reasonable compromise has been reached under the rule. Finally, the decision is taken here in Parliament. What's this about? – Of course, it is about the division of tax money, of which two thirds of which remain in the federal government, one third goes towards countries and municipalities; this one third again divides into two thirds for the countries and one third for the municipalities. Finally, it is about the municipalities, municipalities and cities that there is money to be able to fulfil the tasks for citizens. We think only of the area of infrastructure: This is not only about roads, water and canal, but also about care and health, childcare and education. So there are many things to say soberly: A comparison of the financial strength of municipalities and federal states is rather difficult. The financial power is also very different among the municipalities themselves, from the conditions. An important point for countries and communities is that there will be €300 million more in the field of countries and communities in the future. It also includes a €60 million fund for structurally weak, especially rural communities. With the financial compensation 2017 to 2021, the entry into the task orientation – kindergarten, that is, elementary area, pre-school 2018, compulsory school area 2019 – has also been successful, with the exact details between the negotiators still to be negotiated accordingly. In my opinion, the financial compensation is ultimately a compromise of what is politically feasible. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] Even if it is, of course, the political reality that everyone sitting here can benefit from it at home – of course, the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ must bear it. That's a well-known game, so we can live. Of course, even if it is a good result, you can think about it in a reasonable, very good compromise: Where to develop? – Of course, we are not entirely satisfied with what is going on in the direction of graded population keys. You can also think about how you might be able to improve this in the future. We can also consider politically whether we might not need care insurance instead of the care fund in the long term, whether that would not be the more reasonable way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] One should also think about the local tax, about a division between the place of residence and the place of work of the workers. I know cities that have more local taxes because they have so many jobs – more than residents. One can think about such things, but under the rule the financial compensation is a good compromise in the sense of the people, in the sense of the municipalities, which, of course, must be carried by those who can actually shoulder responsibility, and that is ÖVP and SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12811	I call Mr Doppler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12832	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Wonderful, the coalition works well, like a very good marriage. As regards the Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government and countries on the upper limits of liability: The maximum liability limits are to be harmonised. In the future, federal government and countries, including Vienna, are allowed to assume a maximum liability of 175 percent of their annual income, with municipalities up to 75 percent. Mr. Obernosterer, you said 1.75 percent – it's 175 percent. This provides for the maximum liability agreement between the federal, state and local authorities. As part of the 2017 financial compensation, it was agreed that the limits of liability would be uniform. The different rules will now be merged and a uniform procedure will be established for determining the limits of liability. The liabilities will be divided into three sub-groups, which are liabilities for banks, ground-book-backed liabilities and other economic liabilities. I do not believe that these subdivisions are significant. It is calculated on the basis of a uniform formula, the basis of which is the tax revenue. In the future, the liabilities will also be presented in the invoice. Mr Minister, this is a good approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12865	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12887	Ladies and gentlemen! We have succeeded in negotiating under one due to the un optimal planning of the committees and of these plenary times, that we are negotiating such a thing as the Financial Balance Act, the State Liabilities, the Federal Liabilities and the Municipal Liabilities – which may still have a connection – and the reduction of the bank levy – which has hardly been mentioned by anyone. We have finally approved all these compromises in order to reorganise this shamot, but in the future we will see to it that we will bring together once again a broken committee roadmap for budget and financial committees, in which we will not be able to get everything together in the end, in order to give the Members the floor for planning that we will have a plenary day. In reality, we needed three – but be it! Now these procedural remarks have ended; the exercise will succeed in creating a link between the financial balance and the country's finances, so that primarily also the liabilities and the bank's levy or the reduction of the bank's levy. This is also mixed with a very painful but ultimately very successful subject in the sense of the investigations, namely that of the numerous banking scandals in Austria and in particular a special one. How's it going? – First of all, financial compensation: I believe that the Minister of State has already passed away the pleasure of this issue; one may understand. I am a bit more generous than the previous speakers of the opposition, but you still have to go into the calculation that, if these are always pre-standards for many years, this was not a huge reform, and you will also have to look at the entry into the transition. But I can tell you what certainly didn't succeed, because it's missing at all: Even after your division, the insolvency law for the federal states would have been a long way off, which would have been a wonderful fit. This is an urgent recommendation from several political groups and the Court of Procedure from the Committee of Inquiry. We will not let go of this legislative period, and we will repeatedly point out: What have we distilled out there, not only revealed, but also learned? And which – by the way: numerous – rehabilitation proposals are there that come from these investigations? Clearly, the insolvency law for countries has not even been discussed. The limits on liability have gone a little further. We do not have time to do this now, we have done so in the committee. The glass is still half empty or even a little empty. But it seems important to me that we must also note all these efforts... [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Yes, and I am going directly to do so, because you only said it in an interlocutory call to my colleague Rossmann, almost unacceptable, not even for the protocol, I think, with the indication that you might do so in the country days. I take from it that you say: There are already enough green government participations et cetera. I'd like to take that up. And next time, it'll be different. I can only tell you that the division of power in the federal states is partly such that, if one does not have permanent direct contact with the head of state and in particular with the finance councils – yes, it was – one is not properly integrated. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] We have not really been invited at federal level. I wouldn't have noticed that. Of course, you can say that – you often have the problem –: Okay, we're negotiating all of this more in secret, because then we're going to have more exchange, even in a positive sense. If everyone can watch everywhere, then you won't get along, because everyone fears the next step immediately; but that this is left in the end is not only too little for us, that is partly going in the wrong direction. There were no greens there. We will remember this, and we will take care of it in the future, because the Finance Councils and their heads of state are one of them – and I have to repeat this unfortunately, the copyright belongs to our CEO Stefan Wallner –: Such a national conference is the epicenter of the reform-resistant blockadelite. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] That is what we will have to tell ourselves, and this is where our criticism is based. Now to the bank levy and in this context also to the federal states... – Yes, I would like to take you with me, because the common table is where the ÖVP is losing more and more and more and the greens are gaining more and more; so that you can remember this once. [[Abg. Wheeler: A word to fungus...!]] [[Abg. Berlakovich: So!]] But you can go with me, especially in Graz. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wheelers:... Stammtisch!]] Now we come to the bank levy. Honestly, we are so serious to say: The total revenue the banks continue to make by 2024 is at least as high as it has been up to now. I agree so that there is no misunderstanding. As far as the €100 million is concerned, they remain – other countries no longer have it at all –: We are glad that it is because the banking sector is already making some contribution. Now comes the little parentheses, why this is the case again: Both in the 2008 and 2009 hypo-slaughter, with the respective misconceptions – non-distressed, unnecessary stateization – as well as in 2014 with spindlegger – which was not as wrong as you believe, which has also speculated with the pleite variant, each time, consideration of the other Austrian banks was the reason that the wrong steps were taken and the necessary ones were left out; so they should continue to contribute quietly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] I can tell you this again and again. Look at our report, which certainly includes twice and three times as much pepperoni as your writing there – aproposing regular table – so that we can be clear! The point comes to the end: The federal states have made a massive contribution to the hypo-slam in Carinthia, and the bank levy, which was first and foremost introduced – that is what Mr Krainer always says, I recognize – is now reduced, and the same federal states, who constantly squeak when they are supposed to contribute – are keyword: Hypo-treatment – those who receive a third of these revenue. I don't see that at all. They do not want to contribute to financial market stabilisation – by the way, the tax means something similar – but at the same time you want to continue to co-cash the third. It was a historic mistake at the time that one took it. This should have been quite different, but Faymann has fallen over immediately, and now we have the salad; and we have the salad. Even if it is only € 100 million: I do not understand that this is not a purely federal tax, and this alone is a reason to reject it, although we must admit: The banks will therefore pay no less for the next eight years. I would also like to say that to all those who would otherwise misunderstand this. So stay at the end and under the line: Much is not going on, something in the wrong direction, and at the end it is too little. It's all related that the banks are still relatively good at us, that the federal states are doing something to the Minister of Finance and are ultimately rewarded for getting more money than they would need, and certainly not out of the title.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e12993	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Draft federal law adopting a 2017 financial compensation law and the 1997 Financial Balance Act, the Financial Balance Act 2001, the Financial Balance Act 2005 and other laws and the Needs Assignment Act are repealed in 1332 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. May. Mr Groiß, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Ing. May. Mr Groß, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment relating to Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Request of the Financial Committee to grant approval in 1364 of the Supplements to the conclusion of the present agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the countries which are harmonised with the rules on liability limits. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is largely accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 30: Draft Amendment Act 2016 in 1352 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. May. Mr Groiß, Mr Krainer, Mr President, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs as regards Article 15. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above, then on the part concerned by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Ing. May. Mr Groß, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment relating to Articles 1 and 8. Whoever stands up for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Rule 15 as amended by the Government template. I ask those Members of the House who are here for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:19:08]] 31. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1335, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz (FM-GwG) and the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act (FM-GwG) and the Alternative Investment Fund (FM-GwG) Act, the Banking Law, the Building Savings Act, the Commercial Employees and Self-Employee Prevention Act (FM-GwG) and the Federal Finance Act (FM-GwG) and the Federal Investment Fund Manager Act (FM-GwG) and the Bundesfinanzungsfondsetz), the Federal Criminal Act, the Investment Fund Act, the Investment Fund Act, the Deposit Insurance and Account Management Act, the E-Money Act 2010, the Financial Market Supervisory Act 2010, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Common Report Standard Act, the Gambling Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Accounting Register and Account Management Act, the Accounting Act, the Accounting Accounting Act, the Reorganisation and Resolution Act, the Saving Banks Act, the Insurance Supervisory Supervisory Act, the Insurance Account Act 2016, the Consumer Payment Account Act, the Securities Supervisory Act 2007 and the Payments Act (1391 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13128	We're now on the 31st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I now come to the floor, Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13155	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! I refer to Agenda item 31, Financial Market Money Laundering Act. In principle, we liberals welcome the implementation of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive. In terms of content, however, there are some criticisms, in particular the date of entry into force and the extent of the term ‘politically exposed person’. According to the government's proposal, the Financial Market Money Laundering Act as the implementation of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive is expected to be carried out with 1. ==References====External links== Why 1. January 2017? . The European Commission called on the Member States to implement them even more quickly and on 5 July. In July 2016, I would like to stress that a proposal is being tabled to amend the Fourth money laundering Directive. In addition to numerous amendments to the content of the amendment, this amendment also contains a pre-reposition of the entry into force of 26. ==References== January 2017. However, changes to the content of the Fourth Money laundering Directive can only be implemented if there is a final decision-making text at European level. However, this final directive has not yet been adopted. And here you can see the forerunner's obedience to the Minister of Finance: A directive amendment has not even been adopted, but only exists in the draft, and it is already being implemented by the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We in the plenary must also be aware that we are discussing today a directive that needs to be changed again in the next few months. Why do we not wait for a final text of the directive to be adopted? Nor is the period necessary for careful systemic IT implementation guaranteed. In this context, constitutional concerns have already been expressed in the review. I shall therefore present today a corresponding amendment which will bring into force a directive in accordance with 26th reading. ==References== By the way, I consider the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing arising from the life insurance industry and from the occupational pension funds to be extremely low, which is why I am pleading for an exception from the legal provisions. In any case, simplified care should be provided in these areas. These non-profit schemes for the life insurance industry and for the occupational pension funds remind me of the overwhelming rules for the savings associations, which have been taken back only after pressure from the public. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the third critical point, on the scope of the term ‘politically exposed person’: The Fourth money laundering Directive does not necessarily provide that members of the national governments and parliamentarians are covered by the term ‘politically exposed person’. The government's proposal, however, is mistaken. The current arrangements of the Minister of Finance would result in pensioners' associations, sports clubs and any other association, such as the Alpenverein, the Children's Friends or the Samaritans' Association, provided that a national councillor or a countryday member is in charge of the association, so that these associations become customers with the highest risk of money laundering. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's a joke!]] That is, Alpine club, children's friends, Samaritans are clubs with the highest money laundering risk when a state councillor or a countryman is in the board of directors. Mr Finanzminister! What did you think of it again? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: I want to know that too!]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13261	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13384	The next item is Mr El Habbassi. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13405	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Fuchs, if I listen to you, I won't get out of the headquake anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] The FPÖ is always the first to shout when an attack happens if the government does not act or you do it too slowly. Then you are always the first to stand on the mat from the FPÖ and say: For God's sake, the government is not acting! For God's sake, the government is working too slowly! And if we act quickly, because, as you all know, we unfortunately have operations like the attacks in Paris and Brussels in this world, which we know is that international terror and therefore foreign funding play a role when the barge is pushed forward, then all of a sudden everything goes too fast. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] So I'm a little surprised at the criticism that you're too fast. On the matter: What are we doing? – The Government template concerns a Bun-des Law to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, and in the final effect, we do nothing but strengthen and support the legal order and international standards of the Financial Action Task Force against terrorist financing from abroad and simplify a giant confusion in various legislative instruments, partly replace them and thus provide a proper basis for the promotion of terrorist financing an effective bar. I cannot understand what should be bad about this, Mr President. Please consider what you really want! [[Abg. Fuchs: Read the law, Mr. Colleague!]] – I am very happy to read the law through, you can be sure! [[Abg. Deimek: understand, that's the problem! That's what it's all about!]] I still don't understand the criticism. It is about the fact that the directives are perhaps not yet complete, but it is good that we are creating a legal basis here in Austria and thus setting the framework conditions. [[Abg. Fuchs: Read the opinions and not just the 'Kurier', Mr Cot!]] So maybe you can understand what this is about: The many different laws that we had before – I am counting you a few: the building savings bank law, the company employee and self-employed pension law, the stock exchange law and so on and so on – all these materials are now partially replaced, simplified and summarized into a basis. We therefore want to respond to international developments and propose a regime for financing terrorism. What's important to me is: In defining the PEPs, they have criticised the fact that the Members of the country are also present. In particular, I would like to make an amendment, because we also believe that we do not have to do any gold plating here and that there is no such thing in the regulations of the other Member States. Therefore, I would like to make the following amendment... [[Abg. Hable: Members of Parliament are not Members of Parliament!]] . I have not spoken of Members of Parliament, but Members of Parliament, Mr President. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So, I hope you're still there. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, we're still there!]] – Yes, perfect, Mr Kogler, it is good that you are there. All in all, it is a simplification, not a gold plating, but a rapid implementation of the EU directive – quickly because we want to respond to the current situation. In particular, the proposal simplifies the future fight against international terrorism and money laundering. I think that's a good solution. In this sense, I ask you to support you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13550	The amendment is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13627	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13648	Yeah, a few points. First of all, this is certainly going in the right direction. We have discussed it in detail in the Committee, and this is all very complicated. I would like to expressly acknowledge this. There has been a very, very critical FATF report presented this year, which deals precisely with this and, above all, with it. However, if you look into it, you can see that the Ministry of Finance and everything that is hanging around – that's all very fragmented in Austria, that's also part of the criticism – since has already worked best so far. And I wonder on the occasion, because we are the legislator, when there is now also a little further on the subject of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But there it is not that delicate at all, but it is a priority that is going a little further in the narrowest field of justice. In part, we even need to change laws if we want to follow them. I think that is very smart, but that we will still have to deal with it anyway. In this respect, it should be noted only once: There's something else we'd have to do. But I'm acknowledgment: There are a few things inside that really work forward here, and this is certainly also a success of those who have been trying hard in Europe, but also in the individual countries, always a few – from my point of view, really necessary – to get worse. We know the debate, as we always call it, that Austria has been for many years – and we are already here at the beginning of a trend change, Mr. Finanzminister, always with the worse, with the evil ones when it comes to similar and similar things. It's supposed to be good if it gets better, but it's not good enough yet. I am not saying this because we are in the opposition, but because I am really convinced that something has to follow in other areas here. What I don't fully understand now – first to the government parties – is the change to remove country officials. Why this is always diffamated with Gold Plating, if you get on with us, that could be useful, too, I don't understand. There are worse things, with Gold Plating suddenly being used as a fight vocabulary for improvement. In that case, I certainly thought it was reasonable for Members of the country to stay inside. What the consequences are always, as the speaker of the FPÖ described, whether everything needs to collapse immediately at every small club, is another question, but among the exposed people I would always count the country officials. About FPÖ: They want to take out the members of the state government too! I think that's funny. Is this the consequence of the hypo scandal, dear FPÖ? Dobernig, Martinz, the sheep and so on and so on? – They are all not at risk from the outset. This is in the blue genes, they never have anything to do with money waste and bribery. Not! Not! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] That's why we can take them out. Perhaps we are doing the same thing at all that we say that government members who have a party career in the FPÖ – or, once, you don't know that exactly for some – have to be excluded at all, because they are particularly at risk. This is what we must listen to after election struggles, which completely derail and go in the direction: Against the system! Against those up there, and what do I know? Then we experience within a few minutes that they first – hollodaro! – agree to a reduction in the bank's levy, even if it did not just go right there. This is also against the system, of course. [[Abg. Rossmann: The party of the little man!]] Then they are against the system by protecting, above all, national politicians, whereby I mean – let's look at the scandals of recent years! – that they have much more potential for risk than you have here to offer a small relative praise. Salzburg: Speculated that it has created so much. – We know that everything has nothing to do with national policy, that was any evil from above. In that case it would have been the reds and also the blacks. Everything has nothing to do with it. Hypo Alpe-Adria – nothing! – Yes, this is all kind of related, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] That's all kind of related. If you'd been a little more careful, you'd have seen in your time who's always been carrying something on every occasion. This is not a convenient moment for a call from the ex-minister Fekter, not a cheap moment. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] I wouldn't have mentioned you, but if you pushed yourself! [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] And your predecessors would have been able to see what was happening in the federal states for a long time. We stay in the ÖVP sector, but we hike from Upper Austria to Lower Austria. [[Abg. Rädler: Now it's going to be interesting!]] That's wonderful. The speculated housing funds according to Strich and Faden, deny this contrary to all the Court of Auditors' reports, but then believe that at the national level, benevolence, money laundering, everything does not matter. [[Abg. Rädler: Such an old hat!]] This is the ÖVP, as she sings and laughs. - Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13751	Mr Krainer is speaking as the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13772	Mr President. If we are discussing money laundering here, we must be clear, of course, it is not only about mafia people who wash their money, but of course also about political corruption, about terrorist financing, about tax evasion. [[Abg. Fekter: But in Salzburg it was not about terrorist financing!]] There is a need for instruments with which we can fight crime, on the one hand, and on the other hand fight corruption and, on the other hand, fight against people not making their fair contribution by simply withdrawing taxes. In that respect, I think it is good that we are not even among the last to implement something, but also among the first. This is basically something good because you have our full support when it comes to measures against corruption, crime and tax evasion. In any case, you have absolute support from the Socialist Group. Secondly, whether the countries should be present or not: There were a number of proposals to this effect. There is a proposal from the liberals to exclude the Members of the Landtag and the members of the State Government, there have also been proposals to exclude everything that has to do with countries. However, we agreed here in Parliament very quickly. We have clearly seen in the Hypo-Research Committee that national government members bear a great responsibility, and of course they are part of this search network. If I have federal councils inside, I can't say the councils aren't interested in me. The proposal by the liberals is particularly interesting. They say that the Council of State is not a politically exposed person, but the director of the State Court. This is an exciting position, but I can't win anything at all – quite honestly. As we have already agreed, this is with the question of the Members of the Landtag – but also with a relatively simple comparison: In Germany, they are not present in existing legislation or in future implementation. And I say quite honestly: A countryman in Germany has three, four, five times as much legislative competence as a countryman in Austria. That would be a little disproportionate. That is why we have, of course, also looked at how the implementation is in other European countries. I would give the critics the right if the directive were to include: Members of Parliament and other legislative bodies. But it stands “or ” inside and not“ and. ” So we already have to read the directive carefully and, of course, look at how this is implemented in other countries. I think we are far more stringent in many areas than Germany, but not in all. That is why this is a balanced package, and it is right to decide this way. Finally: When it comes to dealing with corruption, political, economic corruption when it comes to dealing with crimes, whether these are mafia or terrorist crimes, when it comes to dealing with tax evasion, you will always have social democrats on the front line. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13812	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13844	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! The fight against money laundering is a real and honorable one, so we support him of course by NEOS. We had originally also planned to agree to the implementation of this EU money laundering directive. Then, surprisingly, an amendment tabled by SPÖ and ÖVP, in which the members of the country are suddenly removed as politically exposed persons in the context of money laundering, and they also claim all the serious things that would not be covered by the EU Directive. Yes, I read this to you once again: “[...] Politically exposed persons are also ‘parliamentary members or members of comparable legislative bodies [...]’. This is perfectly clear and clear unless you want to explain to us here that country days are not legislative bodies. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] You can't all say that. What consequences it has, when FPÖ is a member of the national governments at once, we also see, because the FPÖ has also received an amendment – they go even further. They want to take out not only the country officials but also the state councils. This is the consequence when the FPÖ is in government responsibility at once – according to the motto: Money laundering should affect everyone else, but only not their own officials! [[Call the FPÖ: But now!]] It is deeply embarrassing what you are doing with these amendments. The only thing we prove by this is that money laundering is really a matter for you, as long as it concerns only the others, and that they are hanging on the line of the national party leaders. This is the only thing that proves you here. All those Members who vote in favour of these amendments should be deeply ashamed.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13904	The next item is the speech by Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13940	Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, the implementation of the Fourth Money laundering Directive is an important thing in order to prevent money laundering and combat terrorism. It is also necessary to say that the regulation of data collection in the case of money transfers is also included, which is also to be implemented by mid-2017. It states that banks must keep these details for up to five years. It is true that there are some clarifications in the structures and that improvements are being made here. The obligation of care is redefined and the online identification for the persons involved in transfers is also introduced. Because the discussion is also about: Politically responsible are included in this law. I would like to say that, in some cases, one or the other has already taken place today, because the banks have interpreted very precisely certain things – in fact, there have been parliamentarians inside – and then one or the other bank, which has worked very closely, has already put in place this measure. It is only now that this is defined more precisely in the final effect. I'm saying the law says: Members of the National Council, the Federal Council, the Government, political party management bodies, all courts, billing courts, central banks, the military and their spouses, children and parents. Of course, in recent years we have also learned that money has come somewhere through spouses or in some form, and it defines third countries that might be particularly affected here. The powers of the FMA will be strengthened and the penalties for such offences increased accordingly. The aim is to place money laundering tests better and faster, and this is also ensured by the reporting obligation of banks and insurance to the money laundering centre, and the transactions must be neglected. I personally believe that it is another step to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing or not to be carried out at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e13981	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14002	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, but in the future PEPs – no PEPs, but now especially PEPs! On the other hand, thanks to all those who have led to the implementation of the Fourth Money laundering Directive, whether they are called Bokassa, Marcos or Gaddafi – that was for the blue group, because there was once a close friendship of a deceased country chief with a son Gad-dafi. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] In retrospect, the amount of money available has been identified, including what amounts are on Austrian banks. Today we have to implement. There is no question that it is unpleasant to put someone under general suspicion and to say if one of the delegates here or family members may be sitting only with associations on the board of directors that they are exposed to an increased suspicion of money laundering. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: AKH, BAWAG, municipal credit...!]] It must be clear to us, however, that Austria cannot afford to do so and must continue to stand on this issue internationally as a gossip child. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] In this respect, the Minister of Finance is right to implement the implementation now, rather in the early part. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] On the question of Members of the Landtag: Mr Hable! In which country are regional circles – and our federal states are really not so large – involved? The Directive is aimed solely at the legislation in force in the country. [[Abg. Scherak:... small!]] – Austria is already smaller than many German states, which are not subject to it. [[Abg. Sherak: All right!]] In this sense, consider whether this is a reason not to vote in favour. [[Abg. Hable: Read the guidelines!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I have a request, Minister of State: However, we need to have practicality in implementation. If members of this house are volunteering at clubs and then a transfer may be blocked, then it must not happen that there are real problems in a few things. In other words, we must make it clear to the financial market supervision that it must be quickly reviewed, so that it is not noticeable in normal business. We must give this promise as a policy, otherwise fewer and fewer people will be willing to engage in the voluntary field. However, access to politics will also get worse, because everyone asks: What do I do for, then I'm under general suspicion? In this sense: Yes to a clean Austria, yes to this implementation, yes to the amendment without country-members and No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thank you – apart from Bokassa and others, they are already dead, that is not possible – to the former Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser for example, because: [[Abg. Haider points towards ÖVP]] Such transactions, that € 10 million from real-estate finance via Cyprus will go to an earlier Secretary-General of the FPÖ, from there via Delaware to Liechtenstein and then we will not receive any documents about what happened for years. The lawyers of a former blue finance minister have also brought up the files in Liechtenstein, after which a little bit has been missing inside, and then an indictment is also fought, so that no trial takes place. [[Abg. Stefan: He was in the Federal Board!]] Please, Mr Fuchs does not need to get out of the situation, but it is good to see these PEPs and such transfers under very precise observation in the future. [[Abg. Hafenecker:... as the hypo!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14139	The next item is the speech by Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14160	Mr President. It seems that there are still some clarifications in connection with the Financial Market Money Laundering Act. So, on the one hand, Austria is smaller than Germany. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Germany has the rule that only the prime ministers are included here at national level. I do not think that we should introduce a more stringent regulation here than Germany. [[Abg. Hable: Your regulation makes exactly the same!]] The next point can be seen in connection with the Economic Owner's Register Act, which we have not yet decided here. I would like to quote the draft of § 2, which says: If no person has been identified as an economic owner after all possibilities and if no suspicions exist, then the natural person belonging to the top management level shall be regarded as an economic owner. - Quote. What does that mean? – If Members of the Landtagsreitte or Landesräder are members of the Board of Directors of an association, such as – as mentioned in my previous speech – with the children's friends, the Alpenverein, the Samaritan Federation, these Landtagsreiter or Landesräder are infecting this association by their function. This association would then fall into the highest money laundering risk. And this cannot really be the meaning and purpose of the implementation of the Fourth money laundering Directive. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tamandl.]] In addition, you must not forget: This is not only the associations, but also the many national societies. These are also, by virtue of § 2 of the Economic Owner's Register Act, companies in which no natural person holds more than 25 percent of the shares. In other words, if a Landtagsreiter were at the same time managing director of such a state-owned GmbH, this Landsseigen GmbH would be classified as an organisation subject to the highest money laundering risk. I do not think it makes sense for us to infect all national societies, where national councils hold a mandate, with the suspicion of money laundering, because this would seriously affect the business activities of these country companies. The Bank may, by virtue of these provisions, simply reject transfers without informing the respective national undertakings. That is not the purpose and purpose of this regulation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14209	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1335 of the supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. May. Mr Groiß, Mr Krainer, Mr President, and Mr MMag's amendment. DDr. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, according to the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Member of the MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 2 § 2 Z 6 lit. (a) and (b). Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Government template, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. May. Great, Krainer, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever is here, I am looking for an acceptable sign. – This is the majority, the request is accepted. MEPs also have MMag. DDr. Mr Fuchs, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. 2 § 42. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. MEPs also have MMag. DDr. Fuchs an amendment relating to species. 2 § 46. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. In addition, Members of the European Parliament have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Mr Groiß, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 6 in Art. 2 § 46 refers. If you're here, I'll ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:55:43]] 32. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1273, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on Austrian Contributions to International Financial Institutions (IFI Contribution Law 2016) (1395 d.b.) 33. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1323, e.g._Other Organiser ==References====External links== On 29 November 1969, it was signed in Vaduz between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Liechtenstein to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth, as amended by the Convention on 29 November 1969. Protocols signed in Vaduz in January 2013 (1396, e.g.) 34. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1324, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Convention on 29 September 1989 (OJ L 311, 29.12.1989, p. 1). Agreement signed in Vaduz in January 2013 between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Liechtenstein on cooperation in the field of taxation (1397 d.a.) 35. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1327, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation on the abolition of the Agreement of 13 March 1990 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables April 2012 between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation on cooperation in the fields of taxation and financial market (1398, e.g.) 36. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1252, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and Iceland on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth, including the Protocol (1399, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14359	We come to points 32 to 36 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14387	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Given the world situation, meaningful development cooperation and, in particular, acute crisis aid is quite up-to-date and also an important topic. However, misappropriate development aid can do far more harm than benefits. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has also been shown that miserably used development aid can fuel wars in the Third World and secure the preservation of power by brutal despots. That is why we are partly negatively opposed to the liberals of the development aid provided by Austria. A very important point for us is that development aid must also be linked to concrete withdrawal agreements with the recipient countries for their citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And we do not see that at all. In the specific case of this item on the agenda, IFI contribution law, the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Development Fund are to be provided with new resources. Interestingly, in addition to beggar states such as Bangladesh, Cambodia or East Timor, where aid is out of the question, States also benefit from the support of these two institutions, of which it would not be accepted at first sight, such as China as the second largest economy in this world or Kazakhstan, one of the world's most raw materials-rich countries. It is also known that the Asian Development Bank – at least in the past – has passed on development aid funds to offshore companies in tax havens such as Cayman Islands. For these reasons, we will refuse our consent to the IFI contribution law. However, we will agree to the agreements and tax agreements with Liechtenstein, Switzerland and Iceland, as we consider them to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14441	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14465	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I would have been very surprised if the FPÖ had not found a hair in the soup in development cooperation. [[Abg. Haider: This is the consequence!]] This simply strengthens the impression you have constantly by following your statements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] You don't want refugees coming to us. You do not want to support people in the land, nor do you want to support them where they come from. [[Abg. New builder: you already!]] With this policy, I believe, one can no longer rise these days. The world is too much networked, we are all too interconnected in this world. It will be of no use, even the FPÖ will eventually have to recognise that international solidarity is absolutely necessary. It just takes a little longer for some. [[Congratulations to Mr Kucharovich and Mr Schwentner.]] With the current IFI contribution law, we decide today to re-establish Austria's 11th recovery of the Asian Development Fund and the 6th replenishment of the Asian Development Bank's Technical Assistance Special Fund with a total of € 21.06 million. The Asian Development Bank is involved in many social and economic projects. The top goal here is to reduce poverty and therefore countries with the lowest per capita income in the Asian region are served and, of course, not the richer. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] We can assume that 27 Asian developing countries will be supported in the near future, including Kiribati, Marshall Islands or Afghanistan. [[Abg. New builder: China, Kazakhstan!]] Grants and favourable loans will be granted, and financing decisions will be directed towards the Millennium Objectives. Because you are now yelling at Afghanistan again, I would like to say that, of course, attention is already being paid to the promotion of such projects, which support the return to Afghanistan and, above all, to helping the people who have returned home. [[Abg. New builder: China, that sounds similar!]] Well, it's gonna be cockbucks, what you're going to put in there again and again. Of course, this is done with a certain background, and, of course, attention is paid to helping people who are being brought back, because for no reason they did not leave Afghanistan. [[Abg. Deimek: For example, China and Kazakhstan!]] [[Abg. New builder: We talked about China!]] If they were there so well, they wouldn't have left their home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] A special focus will be placed on fragile states, as food safety, support for regional public goods, the private sector, development, impacts of climate change, health, education and, I am particularly pleased to say, gender equality and the strengthening of women as a whole. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] With these and some other measures, the Austrian development cooperation is starting the trend change that many have long called for and so important. We are gradually approaching the estimated ODA ratio of 0.7 percent of gross national income, the bilateral EZA budget is doubled from €77 million to €154 million in the coming years and the foreign disaster fund has been quadrupled from €5 million to €20 million. The additional funds will be used for the continuation and further development of existing NGOs projects, but also – please, FPÖ, listen again! – used to improve the situation in the countries of origin of the people on the run. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I am absolutely convinced that it is absolutely right to do just that: to support people on the spot and in the neighbouring countries of the refugees, so that they are not forced to leave their homes and come to Europe. Therefore, the focus on migration in addition to education, economics, water and the rule of law has also been included and defined in the three-year programme of the Austrian EZA. [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of the FPÖ.]] As of 2018, the IFI strategies – which we have just talked about, the Austrian grants to the international financial institutions – will also be temporarily integrated into the three-year programme, so that we have a coherent and effective development policy as a whole. Since I have a few seconds left, I want to use this time to say goodbye to all of you in the Christmas holidays. I wish you very nice, blessed Christmas and for the new year all the good, best health and good luck. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14624	Ladies and gentlemen! I announced this morning that I would take an insight into the Stenographical Protocol. I now have the provisional Stenographical Protocol in connection with an interim call, which shows that Mr Radler has followed the call for tender: “Here’s the alcohol!” – I’m giving him a call for order. [[Calls for Greens and NEOS.]] That is what we are going to do in the debate. Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14673	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] – Thematic change: We will vote in favour of the double taxation agreements. [[Abg. Kogler: Doppler!]] - Doppler, yes! – Allow But I would also like to say a few words about the amendments to the agreements with Liechtenstein and Switzerland. We remember Mrs Fekter – Mrs Fekter is not here – that for years she has refused to recognise the automatic exchange of information in connection with the interest rate directive. She fought like a lion, which she also recorded in the “South German newspaper” the title “Jeanne d’Arc from the South”. She was supported by former Chancellor Faymann, who proposed the Grandma and the Oma's savings book, although the Oma's savings book had nothing to do with it. - Be quiet. Finally, an agreement was reached with Liechtenstein and Switzerland and, at the same time, an anonymous flat-rate taxation for tax refugees. We have never understood this, and every tax-honored person has the hair turned to mountains. At the same time, of course, European solutions have been prevented. Under the pressure of the European Union, the OECD and many other countries, Austria finally had to divert, taking part in the automatic exchange of information for the first time from 2018 onwards. We have, in fact, agreed to this during the negotiations on the change in banking secrecy last year. This – could mean – means that the two tax agreements with Liechtenstein and Switzerland are obsolete and could be repealed. – But that is by no means the case. Let's go to Liechtenstein! The amendment provides for the agreement to be concluded on 31 December. In the absence of existing asset structures on December 2016, the existing anonymous flat-rate taxation constitutes an equivalent abuse-resistant measure. – To be honest, I am lacking in understanding, because this ultimately leads to the low rate of flat-rate taxation with Liechtenstein continuing to lead to inequality with Austrian taxpayers. We are, of course, very much opposed, because this is a blow to the face of the tax-honorly. In the Committee, Mr Finanzminister, you have not been able to dispel our doubts in this regard. To the agreement with Switzerland: There too it should be thought that this could be lifted up without replacement. It is indeed true, it is being abolished, but the whole thing has a hook, because there is a core provision that states that all the matters described in the agreement as confidential are kept silent and that all legal relations arising from the agreement continue to apply. This is due to the fact that past cases of tax relief cannot be traced back. So to speak, those who went into the tax-swift at the time are being encouraged and allow them to continue to withdraw from the tax payment. Tax relief and tax justice do not work together, this is quite clear, this has to be stopped in every respect, for one still applies: The really expensive refugees are still the tax refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14716	Next, Mr. Dr. Cap will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14737	Prescribing is: We all agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] But I would like to add something to my previous speaker: Why are we fighting tax relief? Why are we against tax loopholes? – Because it concerns the funding framework, the framework for action of public finances, that is the decisive thing. Those who want the social state, the health system, the pension system, but also the initiatives to support the economy, investment, growth must be interested in the fact that there is tax justice and that taxes are also paid. That's the decisive thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As I say to you, this has become more difficult, because the international organisation of companies that have several establishments in different countries uses different levels, there is a dispute about who has what tax law and how it is done. In any event, I believe that, through the European Union's form of organisation, it is legitimate to develop a structure beyond the national borders that allows an optimum level of information there – which is already guaranteed – where the financial system does not understand where one wants to know where money is, which also needs to be reported. It is even better, however, to try to increase revenue in this way, to minimize tax relief, thus giving the state finances the appropriate basis. We all understand this – including those who are watching and listening now – as a contribution to thinking about how we can do everything we can, so that it is guaranteed. It is not good for Britain to try to set up a tax competition downwards due to the Brexit debate. Hungary has also tried to get onto that. This too must be opposed, and therefore a single set of rules at European level and beyond is of great benefit. On the other hand, to try to develop cooperation with the Asian countries – there are very special countries in which there are also, in part, very high levels of migration –: This is certainly a contribution to ensuring that people there have a life perspective and stay there; with €21 million you can make a contribution. I am also in favour of there being withdrawal agreements, but not as a condition, because one has to see that there is an improvement in that there is also aid for self-help in these countries. I believe, however, that we do not miss out on thinking about how the world economic order will develop and shape in the future, where the wealth zones are radiating an enormously attractive effect and where many who are not in these prosperity zones begin to wander. This is, to a great extent, also a distribution question. We have to go far beyond this appeal, they just have to stay there – that doesn't do anything! – in addition to what contribution it is necessary to make in order to create the basis for people to stay in the countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14798	Next, Mr. Dr. Hable is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14819	Madam President. High house! Mr Finanzminister! I also welcome you, Minister of Justice. It is appropriate that you are here together, because I assume that we owe the agreement between Austria and Liechtenstein – the subject to which I would like to speak – not only to the Minister of Finance Schelling, but perhaps also to the work of the Ministry of Justice. What is the point of this agreement between Austria and Liechtenstein? – International standards for the fight against money laundering and tax evasion are being implemented across Europe, but the SPÖ-ÖVP Government concludes with Liechtenstein an agreement that has the effect of maintaining anonymous asset structures in Liechtenstein. We have already discussed this in the Financial Committee. Mr Finanzminister, I know what you are going to say now, that this agreement will in any case tax interest income and that everything would be fine. [[Abg. Kogler: Nothing!]] Yes, but what you are not saying is that this agreement, if at all, only introduces interest taxation. It is therefore not at all certain that these assets, which are stored on Liechtenstein's accounts, were originally taxed properly. Nor can you say whether it is not money that may be of criminal origin or its use could serve criminal purposes. All this is not possible, because it is not possible to verify because of these anonymous structures. This anonymity is, so to speak, the intruder, the money laundering and all that is associated with potential criminal acts. This anonymity should be abolished, which is an international standard, and precisely there you create a loophole between Austria and Liechtenstein. It is not surprising, by the way, that, apart from Austria, there is no other EU country who believes that he should conclude an agreement with Liechtenstein on this matter – these directives must all be implemented. What do you prove? – Not only that you have learned nothing from the committee of inquiry concerning Hypo Alpe-Adria – in which we had to learn how anonymous constructions in Liechtenstein have been moved billions to cover up the recipients – so you have not only learned nothing, you want to maintain these anonymous structures quite consciously. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] Nothing learned from the U Committee, but consciously maintained these structures so that the loopholes can be used further: It's embarrassing! This is proof that this is not a matter of policy. Obviously, these anonymous structures – for whoever, I don't want to think about it at all – should be deliberately maintained. This is definitely not intended for Austrian citizens and taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14867	The next item is the speech by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14890	Madam President. Minister! Appreciate High House! If development aid is withdrawn or even frozen or put on zero in all European countries and also in other countries, we see and learn from what comes out of it: People are in motion and people are wandering away. If people are deprived of the basis for survival in their own country, then of course there are human movements, and they ultimately cost each state tenfold, one hundredfold, one million times. That is why it is also important to join the development aid, and this also makes Austria with the IFI contribution law. This IFI contribution law should be adopted by 2020, including. We're talking about around €21 million, that's what my previous speaker said. The most important thing, however, is that we confess that we also assume our responsibility in the development aid – from a political point of view, but also from the responsibility as an Austrian nation – and give those people the basis for their survival, which they ultimately need to find their basis of life in their home country and to develop themselves further. In this sense: a clear yes by the SPÖ. Of course, I wish the FPÖ good luck with their statement. It is you who, when it comes to human movements, always ask: Why is it that way? What can we do? It shocks me all the more that you are not involved in development aid, but says: This is not at all necessary, they should live where they live. - That's not what we're playing with!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14924	Next, Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e14945	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! National tax laws have not kept pace with the development of global companies and companies. That's a fact. This results in loopholes that can arise between the individual national regimes and are thus used by multinational companies to minimize their taxes by tricky tax design. So-called Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, i.e. the reduction of the tax base and the shift in profits, is to be avoided in all circumstances. The OECD Action Plan defines measures to prevent governments from paying little or no taxes. Tax fraud and tax evasion are a major problem which affects everyone. The problem is not limited and can only be solved effectively with joint effort. Huge sums are lost due to tax evasion and tax evasion, according to estimates at EU level € 1 trillion, i.e. € 1 000 billion. These funds are lost in a very different way, on the one hand through tax fraud and tax evasion. Public households are therefore affected by tax havens withdrawing money that facilitates tax fraud to transfer money unregistered and untaxed to appropriate locations. And by aggressive Tax planning of large companies or individuals will be optimally exploited of the limited laws with the aim of reducing taxes. Tax fraud and tax evasion not only limit the capacity of Austria, but also all EU countries to purchase money, thus implementing economic and social policies. This, of course, also results in cuts in public services and correspondingly reduced economic growth. Moreover, tax fraud and tax evasion are fundamentally unfair. Why should we pay more taxes or sacrifice our public services because someone else is not willing to pay his fair share? There is currently no double taxation agreement with Iceland. This double taxation agreement, as I mentioned earlier, also takes into account the new OECD standards on fiscal transparency and willingness to provide assistance. This Agreement regulates the OECD-compliant definitions first and in further consequence, in which State of the Contracting State are to be taxed on movable and immovable assets as well as on income and income from self-employed and self-employed work. I have already said in the Committee that, in the double taxation agreement with Liechtenstein, which we have already heard today, the new Article 26a introduces an abuse clause, which is still missing in the present double taxation agreement with Iceland. That is why I would like to say once again that this clause should at least be included in all future double taxation agreements. Base erosion and profit shifting are by no means acceptable, as this will result in the loss of countless billions of tax revenue for the state and will ultimately go to all our burdens. That is why a clear yes also to the double taxation agreement with Iceland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15006	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Draft IFI Contribution Act 2016, title and receipt in 1273 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to do so, to give an appropriate signal. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 33: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: ==References====External links== Agreement signed in Vaduz in November 1969 between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income tax and excise duties ==References====External links== Protocols signed in Vaduz in January 2013, in 1323 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 34: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Protocol amending the Convention on 29 September 1989 (OJ L 311, 29.12.1989, p. 1). In January 2013 in Vaduz, the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Liechtenstein on cooperation in the field of taxation was signed in 1324 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on agenda item 35: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation on the abolition of the Agreement of 13 March 1990 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables In April 2012 between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation on cooperation in the fields of taxation and financial market, in 1327 the supplements referred to in Article 50(1) thereof. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 36: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and Iceland on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income taxes and assets, in 1252 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(l) of the Protocol. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1300 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Criminal Procedures Act 1975, the Convention on Criminal Procedures and Schöfengesetz in 1990, the Act on Extradition and Legal Assistance (ARHG) and the Federal Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union (EU-JZG) (Staff Process Change Act II 2016) (1403 D.B.) 38. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1365, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the countries with which the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the remuneration of hospital medical services of public hospitals for residents of judicial institutions is amended (1407 b.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15123	We now come to Agenda items 37 and 38 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15152	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a number of issues to deal with here, but I am going to make a separation there. The first application concerns a proposal for a law which deals, inter alia, with a change in the rules of criminal proceedings and the amendment of the Federal Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. This change in the criminal code is about some minor adjustments. The main issue is that the current so-called Leniency Regulation with 31. It was therefore necessary to make a decision on how to proceed on December 2016. A change has now been made to this scheme, and from 1 January 1990 onwards. In January 2017, the new regulation will enter into force, which will in turn be limited to five years. We think this makes sense, because it has not been possible to properly examine the current proficiency regulation, because there have been very few cases of this proficiency, for example in the explosion of OLG Graz not only since its introduction. It is already on the verge of criticism that this criminal code was changed again last year in the framework of the major reform. For example, § 59 of the Criminal Procedure Order became 1. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== January 2017 changed again. So that's not a very good sign. But in total, the changes are useful from our point of view, and we will therefore agree to them. In connection with judicial cooperation there is also another issue, which is very important for us in Austria. That is why there was also a joint declaration by national councillors and federal councillors from all political groups, and this deals with how to deal with Turkey. It clearly states that there is a clear position here in the House that there is no accession negotiations with Turkey and that Turkey is also clearly opposed to Turkey. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, however, an APA message by the Federal Chancellor has been issued today, which could possibly counter-carry or counter-carry this position. I therefore consider it sensible and necessary that we take a decision here, which deals with this judicial cooperation also with the possible accession of Turkey. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second issue I want to discuss – and this is on the agenda item 38 here – is an agreement between the Federal Government and the countries on the reimbursement of health care costs for prisoners. It must be pointed out here that there is a very strange situation in this regard, namely: Prisoners are not insured and are therefore treated as private patients with the highest rate in hospitals. They are therefore tending to be better treated – we know that is the case in Austria – and they get easier dates. According to this sentence, a day of medical treatment of a prisoner in the AKH costs 1 127 €. The Court of Auditors was already criticised years ago that this situation existed and that the prisoners should therefore be brought into a statutory health insurance. That is what the Court of Auditors called for very clearly. And it also says, among other things, in the current government programme that this should happen, because otherwise the dissatisfying situation that we now have is: Prisoners are treated as private patients, therefore, costs a lot of money, while, for example, the judicial guards who care for them, who guard these prisoners for society and provide a service to our society, are treated worse by health insurance than the prisoners. This situation is really unbearable, and therefore we are voting against this agreement between the Federal Government and the countries, because it is also a matter of finally replacing the countries by the Minister of Justice with the money spent on these increased amounts. We are against it because we are convinced that there must be an overall scheme in this regard. It must be made clear here that prisoners must also be transferred to a statutory health insurance. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since this is basically a sensible arrangement, I very much hope that you will all agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15268	Two motions for resolutions have now been tabled, which have been sufficiently supported. The context with which we are now dealing The debate on the modification of the criminal code is very far-reaching in both cases. Nevertheless, I will now declare these two applications admissible. However, I believe that we need to talk at a presidential conference about the content in which resolutions can be tabled. The two applications are now under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15406	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15427	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! [[Imitate a Male Voice]] “You never bubble your friends and always keep your mouth shut!” – I have tried to imitate Robert De Niro a little – at least in the approach – with a deep voice, as he gives advice to his young protector in the Mafia film “GoodFellas”. Years later, his former protector breaks down with his criminal past and becomes a witness and says against the American Cosa Nostra. We know a lot of such proficiency programs from the USA. These are often presented to us in various films. I would like to say quite clearly, in the context of the new procedure regulation in StPO: Such deals with the prosecutor's office are not possible with us. That's very important. The voluntaryity, namely that Von-sich-au-aktiv-bewerden, is at the centre of our attention. No one can buy himself free for his actions from the outset. Today, we are extending the revised Leniency Regulation – which is a very important provision – to another five years, which is unanimously what is very important, because all the parties have agreed to this new regulation. I think that's a success. This is a recognition of an intensive, factual and well-prepared way to legislate in this very sensitive legal matter. There was quite comprehensible criticism in the review. A high-level international expert group was set up in the Ministry of Justice. We take the recommendations and clarifications of this group of experts into account today in the decision-making process. The most important soon: The requirements for the proficiency status are as follows: The information contribution must exceed the gravity of its own action. The witness must voluntarily approach the prosecutor's office before he was heard as an accused person or was forced against him – for example, in the case of a house search. A leading or even co-determining contribution of the potential concubine should in principle lead to the exclusion of the procedural status. With the new regulation, we also strengthen legal certainty for the chandeliers and make the procedure more precise and predictable. I think that's very important. Then: A major criticism in the past was that the concubine had not known for a very long time: Is it me now or am I not? I believe that the regulations and the audit requirements that we have introduced are very essential. The deputies will learn relatively early whether the prosecutor withdraws from the provisional persecution or not. Then, in the procedure, it is examined very carefully whether the various criteria I have listed before are sufficient. Then the conditions clearly defined in the law are examined. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall carry out a precise assessment, taking into account the weight of the contribution to the investigation in relation to the nature and extent of its own crime. If all these conditions are met and the decisions are made, there is – and I believe that this is also very important – in both directions review possibilities: both for those who have been denied the denunciation status – which can rely on judicial control – and for the legal guardian. The latter still has the possibility, if he believes that the testimony status has been wrongly assigned to demand the continuation of the criminal proceedings. I think that makes sense. It is a good way of allowing the review in both directions to continue in the future. At the five-year term, I mean: That's very important! We are going to see – there have been few cases so far – how this new instrument regulation helps to better clarify corruption and crime in the future. Thank you to all your colleagues and to you, Mr Minister, for your confidence. I believe that with the approval we receive today, a core of the StPO-Novelle has succeeded well. This is an effective tool in the fight against corruption and crime. Yeah, I think we can really be proud of it with fug and right. There were a lot of conversations that we made. With today's decision-making, we also implement the Legal Assistance Directive and ensure that even in cases of detention, the defendant is actually put to the side of a defender in the shortest possible time. In addition, we also agree that we now also allow the division in adult criminal law in certain circumstances even in the event of death. An example of this: If a handlebar loses close relatives in a self - indebted accident, it is already “punished enough. ” On the agenda item 38, I should like to say, also in reflection, that what Mr Stefan said earlier: The Article 15a agreement is now necessary, because we must, of course, ensure that our Minister of Justice is also equipped in a budgetary manner. This is the payment of the costs to be borne by the Ministry of Justice in advance, with a flat-rate amount which does not cover all costs at all. But I think our Minister of Justice is, as I know him, already behind it – and he will say so himself – that the new rules relating to the payment of costs will be made accordingly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say again: Thank you for the constructive cooperation and for all – I say it in a funny form – contributions you have made for the new crowning arrangement. We have – and I would like to say: Thank you, Minister! – a very essential point of the government programme. I would like to refer once again to unanimity and also ask the media for positive reporting in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15512	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15534	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Steinacker, the Article 15a agreement is necessary, but we do not agree with it, because we believe that it is only necessary because we simply do not recognize the problem, want to recognize it, or simply do not address it, because this problem... [[Abg. Jarolim: Who didn't recognize that?]] - Apparently, Mr Jarolim. They don't recognize many problems. And that's also a problem you don't recognize. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly! That must be said once!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: (in the direction of FPÖ) That is my opinion, Mr Rosenkranz!]] Nevertheless, this problem has been known for as long as the Federal Minister is in office. That's what you're going to give me. The problem has been known for so long. And the problem is getting worse from year to year, namely financial anger. The Court of Auditors report is from 2012, and it does not get any better, but it gets worse and it gets more expensive. If you can't deal with this problem or you can't solve it, it's a disaster. If you pay private tariffs for prisoners today, this naturally causes a huge hole in the judicial budget. As far as the question now is concerned, the question of how to recover from the countries is concerned: Vienna – here there are a lot of judicial institutions – is affected by this, Lower Austria, Styria and Upper Austria. This would also include countries that would be affected if – which was urgently necessary and would have been urgently needed years ago – the inmates would finally be transferred to the territorial healthcare telephone system. You must not forget: In 2015, health expenditure for residents of judicial institutions amounted to €80 million. If one now assumes that one has paid excessively – the benefits are supposed to remain the same, only one has paid excessively – then if one had already had these inmates in the area healthcare phone system in 2015 – like other citizens – in order to appreciate once Pi, it would certainly be possible to save 50 million €. And that's money that the justice has to lack – and it's missing too. I can only tell you by means of an extract from a judicial centre: ==References== January 2016 until today 860 medical treatments in public hospitals, 150 rescue transports, 290 stationary shots in public hospitals. That costs, it costs, it's a barrel without soil – and you can't afford that! And again: This is not about benefits, or it is only secondaryly about benefits. It is primarily a question of paying a tariff which the local health telephone does not pay. That's just not to see. It is a question of the Federal Minister's negotiating skill to finally bring it to rail – whatever he wants. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Minister wants a lot – but the taxpayer doesn't have much to do with the will, Mr. Federal Minister. More important than the will would be the implementation, the long-overdue implementation. And yes, Mr. Federal Minister, you already have to let that happen. August 2016 the “standard” – not “today”, but the “standard”: He points out that these costs are three times as high. On average, the expenditure per prisoner in 2009 – now we write 2016, and it all becomes more expensive – already then, €8,418 and was thus about three times as high as the current public health expenditure per capita in Austria, i.e. three times as high as for a normal, working Austrian citizen! So this, my dear, should be done right away, Mr. Federal Minister! You can't move that to the long bench anymore. You have to miss this money, too. So you have to see that you get it, as soon as possible. This is overdue, and it should have been done at the start of office, because this is really a budget that the judicial system absolutely lacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15614	Next, Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15635	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Lausch, you are sick of such pessimism, that is sensational. I've been here for a while now, I've seen a few ministers of justice and I know very few who have just come to this point – and he has also invited you to discuss this with you several times; in so far I don't think your statements are all right – so much so that we have used this ASVG solution or some other solution, such as Minister Brandstetter. You have to say that here. Actually, I would have expected you to remove this praise and not quote from a 2014 issue of the “standard” numbers from 2010. [[Abg. Laust: Plus 2016!]] So please a little more seriosity! Thank you. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a matter of fact, today most of it has already been said. Unfortunately, I cannot begin with a representation of a criminal film like the colleague Steinacker. But it is true, of course, that the procedural regulation is a very essential element, especially in economic criminal law, where it is simply incredibly difficult to find out about systems. That is why, based on the antitrust legislation, where it has succeeded to bring light into the dark in some very well-known and spectacular cases, this regulation has already been brought into criminal law some time ago. The first term has now expired. And the regulation has now been changed to create a legal claim of the person concerned, so that he knows that, if he makes a statement of formal evidence, he is actually serving as a witness, and then he is actually able to enforce this claim – if the prosecutor thinks he may have it to the end of the day. This is very important, because it is simply essential in criminal law, too, to give an invitation to all those who were not leading – that is true – but were nevertheless involved as fellow perpetrators, saying: It is important to make a confession and at the same time to pack additional information about this criminal act and thus fall into the area of the division. You all know what the disversion is. These are in the lowest level of sanctions – and not punishment – and these benefit the crown witness. We have certainly created an incentive that is very important. But on this occasion you have to say one more thing: We have now covered this area where we create additional motivation for statements, for detection. This also includes another regulation, namely that of extraordinary punishment. That is, where the former does not take place, there is the measure of extraordinary punishment – that is, another invitation, so that even if the first solution, namely the decency regime, is no longer possible, there is another possibility. One more thing: We have absolutely pre-influenced equipment in the country criminal offices, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think there's any idea of how we're working around there, like in the Stone Age. It does nothing for us if there is no modern technical means there. It will be very important that we, in cooperation with the Federal Minister for the Interior, ensure that these too receive adequate equipment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15678	Mr Lausch has spoken on an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15702	Madam President, I know them. Mr Jarolim said in his speech that I would have quoted an article of the "standard" from 2014 and would operate with wrong figures. I'm actually correcting: The article of the “Standard, ” which I quoted, is dated 26. August 2016 – and not 2014. Listening is adorable, Mr Jarolim! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15782	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Schrangl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15803	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am also talking about the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries on the levying of hospital medical care for prisoners. This was often the subject of discussions. That is why the Court of Auditors has also carried out an audit. It has to be admitted quite honestly that the Minister of State has implemented many of the things that the Court of Auditors initiated at the time – and he has also reviewed in 2014 what has been implemented. And, Mr Federal Minister, you also have to acknowledge your achievements or your new ways in connection with the implementation of measures. On the other hand, we must also criticise – and therefore we do not agree with this agreement – that your own ministry, Mr. Federal Minister, has calculated that the cost of the countries they should return to you – because it is a flat-rate amount that the countries make to the Federal Ministry – would actually amount to €22 million, so that we would be back in half the division we were in when the whole thing came into force for the first time. It is also sad that the countries have actually paid nothing in the last three years and are now paying only €12.4 million. As I said, we are far from the cost sharing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, as the Federal Minister said, and it was also seen in the Committee in agreement, it is an unbearable and unbearable state that prisoners are treated at the private patient rate and, as my previous speaker, Mr Stefan, has already said, the judicial guards who take care of the prisoners are actually getting the worse rate – one should not say, the worse rate, but in reality it is – and then perhaps the idea in the room is that the prisoners are better cared for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't think the prisoners are better cared for, because I have confidence in the doctors who work there. But still, it would be great, Mr Federal Minister, if you could present figures or Your ministry finds out what would really be cheaper, because in reality it is a problem that burdens taxpayers and where you should finally do something. I know that the braker is not you, but the brakers are those who always call NEOS the “princes of darkness”. Nevertheless, let us see that we come to a solution together, because it is not a citizen to explain that prisoners are treated better than a normal CCC insurer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15854	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15876	Ladies and gentlemen! We are making an important decision today, because without today's decision, the legislation would have expired, which has been fixed in the law for some years now. I think it's important that the leniency regulations continue to exist. What is the subject of the Leniency Notice? – Some of my colleagues have already outlined this: Someone who is the perpetrator cooperates with the prosecutor's office, and in return, he receives freedom of punishment. It is important to say – so that this is not misunderstood –: This is not about mildness, but it is about an incentive to explain crimes that cannot otherwise be resolved by an insider, thus providing valuable evidence to the prosecutor. The deadline has given us the opportunity to evaluate the proficiency regulation. This has been carried out in a very professional process, and therefore it is now also possible to extend this procedure regulation quite further, namely, improved in that there is more certainty by clarifying the procedure, by the fact that the procedure also has appeals. And with that, the chance is that we also have more chandeliers. It has already been said that the phenomenon of the chandeliers was rather rare. There will also be no mass phenomena, there should be no one, but in a certain area, in selected cases, it should be an actual and currently used aid for the prosecutor's office to resolve certain crimes and crimes concerning deputies. The fear that this will make some sense in Austrian criminal law, such as deals, so-called comparisons or agreements with the prosecutor's office – this question can be seen as quite delicate – can certainly be prevented from the very precise rules in the law that the person concerned must voluntarily approach the public prosecutor's office. In my opinion, a further period of time would not have been necessary, but this should not prevent the Greens' consent. I would just like to point out – and we have already discussed this in committee – that: The criminal part of the legislation will not be enough on its own, because there is also a civil law component. Of course, any detonators, for example, that unseals a corruption offence – under quotation marks – are “hazardous” of claims for damages, which can often be very high. In other words, it may well be that we are now dealing with this in a sensible manner, but the civil rights claims for damages are an obstacle to the fact that we are actually reporting witness to the public prosecutor's office. It would therefore be useful, Mr Justice Minister, to continue to think about these civil rights sides – you have already mentioned this on your own in advance – in order to consider what to do in civil law, so that this does not happen. It is always a question of improving the liability of the witness – that would be my approach – than the perpetrator, that is to say, that he enjoys a kind of liability privilege and is only used if the offender is unable to fulfil the damage claims of the injured. Then there would be an incentive. Of course, it is about the need to continue the claims for damages, because this cannot be done at the expense of the injured. It is important, and this has to be stressed once again, that the gear regulation will be applied in delicate areas: Corruption, red light environment, gun slides – wherever you have to go, where you need information to crack up a system and also break up a public prosecutor. - That's a point. But there is another point in this novel, which I would like to address, which is the possibility of a division in adult criminal proceedings when close relatives of the accused are killed negligently. In the case of Disversion, for example, non-profit benefits should be provided instead of judicial conviction. It is particularly useful in this case. There are times and again cases that are tragic that go through the media. Perhaps you can still remember the case where a stroller has been rolled from a platform onto the track and the child has been killed by the train. Or another tragic case was the one in Vienna where a child was clamped in the elevator and the mother was still busy with other children. All these are severe fates, which for parents have a drama and a tragedy that they probably carry with them for a lifetime. You don't have to punish such people by criminally condemning them. There are alternatives. I think it is very useful that this measure is also contained in this novel, like many other points that I cannot list at all. A very sensible novel, therefore we will agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15939	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e15960	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! TOP 38: An Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government and countries on the remuneration of hospital medical services for public hospitals for residents of judicial institutions is to be amended. At first I heard – I believe Mr Jarolim – and yes, it is true, Mr Minister, and I think it must also be praised, because you have implemented proposals from the Court of Auditors exemplaryly and within a short time, and that is a good thing to thank you. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Medical services: The criminal service shall be treated with health insurance institutions. That would interest me, Minister: What does that mean exactly and specifically? For the first time, an agreement with the countries was reached in 2003 to ensure equality between the Federal Government and health insurance companies. The calculation basis of this agreement was the hospital costs of the criminal enforcement administration of the year 2000. Further, this agreement has been extended over and over again, we have already heard that. In concrete terms, this will be adjusted by increasing the annual lump sum of the countries from € 8.5 million to € 12.7 million, with a view to partially restoring the original equality with health insurance companies. – I would also be interested in what you say when you say that it has to be made that way. The current regulation in this form is not in order in the case of Weitem. I must say one thing, Mr Jarolim: You have added to Mr Lausch's remarks, but it certainly cannot be all right if the prisoners are treated like second-class patients, or like class patients. I don't think that's all right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16001	Next, Mr. Dr. Scherak is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16022	Madam President. Federal Minister! Maybe to clarify: The question of the health care of prisoners is not whether they are better cared for than judicial guards, but that they are simply more expensive and more expensive – the FPÖ has raised a right point. But it's not about getting better or worse. We are dealing with many important, useful issues in this government template: on the one hand, the implementation of the Legal Assistance Directive, which makes it possible for it to provide effective fundamental rights protection for accused persons before questioning by Police and justice, on the other hand, provide the possibility of a division in adult criminal law in the case of negligent murders in the family circle. This is, of course, a very emotional issue, but it is nevertheless fair how we regulate this, because the people who face such an accident, not only as the colleague Steinacker said, are probably punished all their lives and must fight with this fate, but also because there can be no real general or special preventative reason to impose a penalty here. However, what is done with this government proposal is a further development of the leniency regime. We have already heard this, perhaps not the ultimate ideal start, but not the implementation, but the fact that there have been so few cases of application. Nevertheless, I believe that it can be a very effective, efficient and proven means of exposing such abuse of power and corruption crimes – and this, although, of course, it is in contradiction with and tension with the fundamental legal tradition in Austria, namely, the need for persecution, on the other hand, the principle of the rule of law, on the level of equality. This is, of course, a certain kind of special treatment that creates this tension ratio. Nevertheless, it is good that we have it, and unlike the Greens, I believe that it is precisely because of this that the time-limit is good. Because there were just so few applications, we still do not know what the ideal solution of the decency regulation looks like. We need to look again at how to do this better, how to make it most practical, how to do it most efficiently. That is why we also need this further development in order to finally see how we can best deal with corruption and organised crime. That is why I am also pleased that in five years' time we will again be conducting an evaluation that I hope there will be another study, Minister of State. I hope that we Members will then immediately receive them and do not have to ask for them. Section head Pilnacek then, I think, said not to draw the wrong conclusions from it, which is why we did not get it. We also got them afterwards to draw the right conclusions accordingly. It's important that we have them right away. It is a good arrangement, and we will evaluate it again in five years.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16068	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16089	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The changes in the law are affecting different areas of prosecution, and I would like to take a look at the matter of detention. This part of law enforcement plays a very important role in public perception and is also linked to the functioning of the state persecution. There are times and again cases that are very much in the public interest. Of course, some of you may well remember cases of recent history, for example the case of Helmut Elsner, a banker who through stubborn commitment of our then Minister of Justice Berger found the way back from France to Vienna, or to the case of Peter Rosenstingl, who was among other things also cashier of a parliament club and was taken home by the holiday paradise Fortaleza to be punished. [[Abg. Ollinger: Which party?]] The example of the perhaps most famous case of all time, namely Edward Snowden, an American who is considered a high traitor in his home country, who is sought as a sexual offender in Sweden by arrest warrant, and is actually considered hero in many parts of the world and was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2014. We see that the issue of extradition in law enforcement is very delicate because not only judicial systems, but also value systems meet. In this draft, our very high legal standards are not only guaranteed but also extended. That is to say, the execution of the European Arrest Warrant has proved successful for more than 13 years and is further improved in this novel. Legality is guaranteed through legal assistance, which has already been mentioned today, and through a kind of legal service of the Bar of the Bar of Law. That is, during delivery, it can be ensured that an adequate legal assistance is also provided in the country in which the data subject is delivered. A rapid execution of arrest warrants is important in the sense of the accused, and that is nothing to stop. It remains to be hoped that this European model will also inspire in other parts of the world in improving standards and that it will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16126	Mr Brandstetter has now been notified to the Federal Minister. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16147	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the subject of the Leniency Regulation, I am very glad that it has succeeded in bringing to the vote today a regulation that is really up to date. It is certainly Europe's leader, I dare to say that. The President of the Committee on Justice, Mrs Steinacker, has already highlighted the essential points. All that has been criticised as a lack in the previous Leniency Regulation can be used to eliminate the best of our knowledge and conscience. There is an improved legal protection in both directions, for the deputies to whom this position is denied, as well as in the case that someone gets the form of evidence that they may not legally receive. Apart from the problem of civil liability, which has been left untouched – as I already see Mr Steinhauser's argument, he is quite right that it would be superior to think here also of a civil liability privilege in any direction – this is really a regulation that we can be pleased with. In this way, the proficiency regulation can be continued in a significantly improved form – provided your consent is required – for the next five years as well. She has brought us a lot, there have not been too many cases yet; we will see. It is important – and it has already been pointed out – that this evidence regime also makes it clear that the state criminal claim is not a commodity to deal with, but it is a rule that builds upon the fact that the person who really wants to return to the legality and is also willing to help the law enforcement authority to discover things that could not otherwise have been discovered should be rewarded with appropriate forbearance in the area of sanctions. That makes sense, I think, even what was desired. So that's something you can only be happy about. I am also pleased that there is such broad agreement. There are also a number of other regulations that are included here, which have already been mentioned, which also include the implementation of the Legal Assistance Directive with the improved possibility of updating mandatory defenders in certain cases. That makes sense, too, that's new. Whatever is new, this is in itself a small matter at first sight, but not insignificant, I think, namely that the costs of the criminal proceedings are now expressly included in the costs of the transfer to other countries in the case of the taking over of the execution of the penalty. In particular within the European Union, it has recently succeeded in increasing the figures of these transfers. So it is that which is very positive, and I am glad that we are as far as we are now. With regard to the second point, the Article 15a agreement, I have to say that what Mr Stefan and Mr Lausch have said here is in principle entirely correct. It would be desirable, and I have also said from the beginning of my activity that we have a normal insurance – normally covered by social security law – for the prisoners and the necessary medical care. That makes sense. I say quite frankly to you that I have tried from the beginning to achieve this. I first spoke with the then president of the main association of social security funds. Hardly was I closer to him in conversation and hardly did we begin to negotiate, he became Minister of Finance. Then came the next president of the main association, who didn't stay in this position for a very long time. It is only a few weeks ago that I spoke with the current President, who also sees the concern quite positively. It is a question of financing, and since, I must say, it must also be remembered that it is actually about the same pot as public money – in the last episode – that it is about the same pot. What you eventually take away from social security companies, they may need to do so in some form – and vice versa: What we're paying in there, they're doing well again. In the end, it is a question of redeployment within various institutions, all of which depend on public funds. I see, however, that there is also a psychological problem – that is not a question – that it would be useful for a variety of reasons, not only for economic reasons, as an ASVG insurance excluding family co-insurance. That's what I've tried to do from the beginning, I want to continue. In this respect, the concern expressed and articulated by colleagues Stefan and Lausch is fully justified. We are not yet ready, and as long as we are not so far as we are, I am very open to you, I am glad that we have now received a significant increase in the cost of this Article-15a agreement, which we have previously transferred to the countries by paying the benefits of their hospitals. I It is only yesterday that the head of state of Carinthia, whose signature was still missing, telephoned to ask him to do it quickly so that we can decide today. That's what he did. On this occasion, I would like to say that it is not just about three federal states, it is of course affected by every federal state. And I would also like to say one at this point: Over the next five years, we will receive a total of over €21 million, which has been negotiated by the financial compensation. As I am really grateful to the Minister for Finance, he has really negotiated very well, he has taken this extra amount out for us. That is, as mentioned, a large amount of €4.2 million per year for us, and that for five years. We're doing it more budgetaryly, I have to say it quite openly. We may be able to finance more easily what we are planning. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is budgetaryly close to us, that is so; but I think that with these additional resources, which we will then receive – as provided for in your decision – one or another of the projects that are still in place, which we have already implemented in part, and which we still want to improve and implement, will be easier for us to finance. I am thinking, among other things, of the reform of the law on property and the like. I am so grateful for this outcome of the negotiations. I am glad that we are easier to do with this very good outcome of the negotiations which the Minister of Finance has achieved. I think as long as there is no better solution – you are right, with the ASVG insurance for prisoners – as long as I am just glad that we are getting resources with this agreement that we can use very well. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16216	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doorer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16238	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have this Article 15a agreement on regulating the costs of the treatment of prisoners in public hospitals. In concrete terms, it is about the hospitalization of prisoners, about how the cost sharing is done when they are in the hospital. Since 2003, there has been a division of costs between the federal government and the federal states, but this has not been adapted to inflation since then. Therefore, this new distribution of costs now also provides more cost-effectiveness between the federal government and the federal states. The costs for the stationary treatment of prisoners are very, very high, they are growing and should be of concern to us. However, it is even more important than the concern for these costs to achieve a concrete solution. The game of playing the prisoners against the judicial guard and questioning who gets the better treatment I don't think is serious. This is a game that is sometimes typical of the FPÖ, namely to play a group against the others. I don't think you should go to the glue, because the truth is quite another. [[Abg. Schimanek: My God, no!]] The prisoners therefore have this status as private patients – and I think the FPÖ knows this very well, and it has already been pointed out – because they are not health insurance, except a few who may be privately insured, but we are talking about the large majority. It's an obvious disadvantage not to be insured. I agree with the Minister for Justice that it is necessary to do so; Many discussions have already been held. I believe that it is necessary to achieve the status of finding a timely solution to the issue of financing the hospital treatment of prisoners in public hospitals, namely to involve them in a health insurance scheme. [[Abg. Lausch: Please agree to our request!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] An alternative idea is an own judicial hospital – as it is practiced in Germany – where you have to look at the costs. There is only one side-by-side aspect, and this concerns the security issue. It is also for – I say so – normal patients who are in the hospitals, not always the best atmosphere for a recovery when people come out of surgery freshly and then stand there the judicial guard, i.e. uniformed around. It would also be necessary to look at the costs of your own hospitals in the field of justice. [[Abg. Listen: I hope you'll never put the Minister of Justice again, that's crazy!]] I believe that the current process of a new cost sharing can only be an intermediate step. Long-term health insurance for prisoners does not go by, especially from the point of view of reducing costs and saving taxpayers' money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16309	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Would the rapporteur, the rapporteur, like a final word? – That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 37: Draft Criminal Procedure Change Act II 2016 including title and receipt in 1403 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I would like to ask for a sign of the same nature. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stefan, colleagues on the termination of EU accession negotiations with Turkey. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 38: Request by the judicial committee, the conclusion of the present agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the countries with which the agreement is amended in accordance with Article 15a B-VG on the remuneration of hospital medical services of public hospitals for residents of judicial institutions, to be approved in 1365 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stefan, colleagues on the involvement of the inmates of judicial institutions in statutory health insurance. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. [[16:17:49]] 39. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1346, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Code of Laws, the Notarial Code, the Training and Professional Audit Accounting Act, the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers, the EARAG, the Law of Law of Law, the Law of Law of Law of Law and the Law of Experts and Interpreters (Law Law of 2016 – BRÄG 2016) (1404 d.B.) 40. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1341, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance Act 1994, the Railway and Motor Vehicle Liability Act, the Gas Economic Act 2011, the Reichshaftsgesetz, the Piper's Act and the Traffic Victim Reimbursement Act (Minimum Insurance Total Valorisation Act 2016 – MinVersValG 2016) (1405 a.b.) 41. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1355, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Corporate Code, the Stock Act and the GmbH Act (Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act, NaDiVeG) (1406 d.b.) to improve sustainability and diversity reporting.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16428	We shall now proceed to points 39 to 41 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Brückl was the first to speak. The voluntary time limit is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16456	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are three government documents on the debate, and I agree to speak exclusively on Agenda item 41, on the Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act. This is a reporting obligation, which is passed on by law to large companies. They will be obliged to make a non-financial statement in the future. This non-financial statement is based, among other things, on environmental concerns, on social matters, on workers' interests or also on data on age, professional background, vocational training of management and supervisory bodies. For us liberals, this means an additional bureaucratic effort, the administration is bloated, so we reject it. I'll be able to send this for once. As has been pointed out in various opinions in the review process, these data are not very useful for the continuation of a company, but we know that large companies in their annual annual reports they publish are always happy to provide data voluntarily; they do so for marketing purposes. As we know from the USA, for example, this is also the case here. We have deliberately renounced a reporting obligation and put it on a voluntary basis, and this is what we do, and we know here, with great and good success. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This law therefore does nothing but restrict and restrict the domestic economy, businesses, the economic location and thus also workers. In my opinion, it is very surprising – the word Allergenverordnung, the word Smoking Prohibition in restaurants, the registration of registers – that the Austrian People's Party is once again incomprehensiblely involved in the burden of Austrian companies, in the burden of the Austrian economy, because finally the Ministry of Justice is also an ÖVP-led ministry. I know that within the ÖVP not all think so, and I also know that many of you here would like to go out in this vote because you know: If you agree here, you will be burdening the domestic economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is precisely with such laws, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that Mr Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner, who told us the struggle only a few days ago, will not succeed in stopping the election exchange he spoke of, which obviously takes place between ÖVP and FPÖ. Do you know what he's doing wrong? – I tell you: He continues to make an anti-economic, anti-employee policy. The tragedy at the People's Party is – and we experience it again and again at every session, even yesterday –: When it comes to explaining social policy or economic policy issues, in recent years the People's Party has left the centre, towards left-liberal positions, to left-liberal positions. You represent your conservative lines, your conservative positions no longer offensive, and that is the mistake the People's Party makes – not we Free! - That's the mistake you're making. You will not be able to stop this exchange of voters, as has been said. Mr Vice-Chancellor will not be able to stop the election exchange either by setting us a standard of freedom as a lawless person. I picked out the quote: “We” – the People’s Party – “must represent that we have the better concepts and move in contrast to the FPÖ on the ground of the rule of law.” There is one question I would like to ask you: Are you all right?- Oh, my God! – Please, this is a completely intolerable statement, a totally intolerable statement that is self-evident. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: Mr. Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner and his last fidelity give with these attacks which they oppose against us Free movement – you should know – is an option for future government negotiations out of hand, but obviously this is so wanted. Finally, I can tell you: We will not vote in favour of this draft law on item 41. – I thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16537	The next item is the speech by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16558	Madam President. High house! Yes, beyond unsolicited policy advice, I would like to inform the Minister of Justice of my good intentions for the year 2017 that I want to get the curve from Tacitus to Cicero, who said: [[general hustle and bustle]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Stefan: Was free!]] We see that laws are often applied for in rough quantities. - Quote. By the way, Tacitus, too, has said something about this: “We used to suffer from crimes, today from laws.” That is why I am saying this because my short speaking time is in no relation to the materials I have to discuss here. [[Abg. Jarolim: Can't be said like that...!]] I want to be very brief, as at the end of my speech I still have to make an amendment so that there is a harmonisation of money laundering with item 31 of the agenda. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Yes, yes!]] Let me focus on one point – aproposing money laundering – which has caused criticism, namely from my board: This is the limitation of the law-enforcement of the lawyers to make the suspicions. I do not want to deal so much with the criticism of content. There may be certain legal concepts, there may also be an objection to appreciation, if one says that one has to report the financing of terrorism, but a terrorist, if one has a suspicion, not; but it is a directive that we naturally implement in this form. Let me, however, as we are at this moment of suspicion, share with you a thought as to how far the state's claim for truth goes in a liberal rule of law. This is certainly not absolute. For example, in StPO and in ZPO, we have rights of refusal. So no one has to accuse himself, no one has to testify when he is exposed to the danger of shame. But it is not even that one can refuse the statement; one may sometimes consciously say the untruth. That's part of our legal order. An accused person may lie in criminal proceedings. It will not help him, and he will not benefit the cause of the remorseful confession, but he may lie. There is no penalty in other parts of our legal order if one says the untruth. For example, ladies and gentlemen, if a servant in a job interview says the untruth about whether he or she is disabled or pregnant, that is without success. There is even a duty to say the untruth, if one wants to put it overstretched. The service provider shall not write anything negative into a service certificate. What I want to say with it: There is no absolute right of the state to truth. A liberal rule of law, freedom also includes privacy, privacy, the right to retreat and silence. I would like to mention this in this context. In future laws we make, we should remember. Now goes to my application for the Professional Law Amendment Act: [[Quoted print version removed]] In order to give an authentic interpretation in order to avoid any question of interpretation, I would like to say here that the members of similar legislative bodies are, of course, not members of the country's day right after this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16667	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16744	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16765	My colleagues mentioned it earlier: It is about three laws that are now being discussed in total. I would like to focus on the sustainability and diversity improvement law. This law goes back to the UN sustainability targets. The idea of the UN sustainability goals is that all actors, state and private, will contribute to sustainability; only then, and that is sustainability, will improve our quality of life, our social conditions will improve, our ecological living conditions will improve. In implementing these UN sustainability objectives, the European Union has then adopted this Directive. This directive makes a lot of sense. She says: A company has economic information obligations, must disclose economic indicators. That's undisputed. But it is also said, and that is the content of this directive, that it: because it is not about the financial interests of entrepreneurs to be disclosed. What are the interests? – On environmental issues, social issues and questions of workers’ interests, these are to be disclosed. Because this is pretended to have no added value: Of course, it has an added value when a company makes it transparent that it is a child-friendly company that it offers, for example, special childcare facilities that it uses particularly environmentally friendly forms of production that comply with human rights standards in the supply chain. All these are non-financial information that will be made transparent in the future. I say: Property required! We have private property, but we are committed to ownership and ownership, that is to say, to perceive common interest and to report transparently on how to deal with these common interests, because it is in reality a control in a positive sense that companies are beginning to act ecologically and socially due to this transparency – what we all want. The problem now is: There are pioneers who make this voluntary; that is very praiseworthy. But there are others who don't. Now, this law is to commit to doing so within a certain framework, namely companies of public interest, which have more than 500 employees. However, the law has a major disadvantage: There are no standards for how this disclosure should look; in other words, because of lack of standardisation, there is no procedure for disclosure. The consequence is: There is no comparability because everyone reveals anything. The third consequence is that there is no verifiability. This leads to the good idea of the sustainability target of the UN ad absurd; for if you do not comply with these standards, two problems arise: first Greenwashing – something is reported –; second: Those who make it proper have a competitive disadvantage to those who make it sloppy. We will therefore make a request that I have to read, which aims to ensure that this comparability and standardisation are made. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] All this should ensure that these sustainability reports are standardised, comparable and that the necessary transparency also ensures that investors, the public and consumers can compare these companies according to these criteria. I would like to mention another point on a second law, which is the Professional Law Amendment Act. The colleague before me has tabled an amendment. In short, it is about the implementation of the directive on the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Lawyers, notaries have certain duties of care. In the case of politicians, politically exposed persons, these duties of care are higher, this directive provides for. So far, the wording has always been such as to include Members of this Directive. Now, however, at the last minute, an amendment, in which it is said that Members of Parliament are only members of the National Council and of the Federal Council, the Members of Parliament are not. That's different. Members of Parliament will normally understand the members of legislative bodies and not just Members. That is why we think that this is a restriction. One can discuss whether one wants to do so or not, but two minutes before the vote to make such a request not to say a word in the committee on this matter is certainly not going with us. Minister! We have agreed to this government proposal in committee, but will not be able to agree here now, because that is not possible with us. This is not a clean parliamentary procedure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16866	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16934	Next, Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e16955	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! It has already been said a lot. In fact, as I can only give colleagues Vetter a right and underline this, it is true that development at European level, which is the result of legal proceedings, is the profession, who are acting in the representation of persons who are confronted with criminal accusations, is pretty slow to be truly high-quality. We are increasingly coming to the point that those who represent people should actually protect them, help them to get more or less of a kind of spy that has to be reported by itself, which in fact represents a sort of investigational position towards their clients. This is certainly not the classic picture that we actually have in this context from our rule of law. That is why it is also important, I believe, to get involved in the European debate as a whole and to see that the child cannot be poured out with the bath, which has already happened in part. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Schrangl.]] The Federal Minister can only be strengthened in this context, and we need to see that in all this discussion in the future, we are somehow quite simple – that is always the discussion about the rule of law – maintaining a very balanced relationship. With regard to the changes relating to employment, my colleagues will still talk about the competence of the statutes. As far as the pension funds for notaries and lawyers are concerned, this is now transferred to the respective Federal Office, which is certainly an advantage because there is a general rule over the whole federal territory. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17000	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17022	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! This is essentially about two directives, so the Federal Minister cannot be blamed, because he is not responsible for the fact that the directives are the same as they are. The first directive, which is now transposed into the Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act: Mr Brückl, I think, has already described very clearly and in detail what an absurd red tape will be, which the European Union will, in a sense, introduce. Mr Steinhauser, I think, has brought a nice example: I absolutely cannot understand why we believe that the state must require a company to explain in a report whether it is child-friendly or not. If a company wants it to be more huge in competition, namely because its consumers know that it is a particularly child-friendly company, then the first thing it does is to sign it out somewhere. It doesn't need the state to do that. This is a pointless bureaucracy that will only cause companies to be even more burdened. This is exactly the opposite of what we want to do, that is to deregulate. We regulate absurd once again, make an absurd red tape, and what it really needs would be more entrepreneurial freedom and no less, and this is unfortunately not the result. We will nevertheless agree because it is a directive; that does not mean that we like it. We know we're obliged to do that. The second law, the professional law amendment law: Mr Federal Minister, I have not yet agreed to the Committee. I said I was still thinking about that. I have been discussing this for a long time with the Austrian Bar Association. Together, we have come to the conclusion that the measures put forward here to combat money laundering and terrorist financing are not necessarily ideal, but they are precisely in line with the directive. I therefore came here with the idea of agreeing to this, and I actually wanted to congratulate only the Austrian Bar Association Day, which has announced that it will try to bring this absurd tension relationship, which exists between the confidentiality and loyalty obligations of lawyers and this implementation, before the Constitutional Court or before the European Court of Justice. I just wanted to wish him good luck. Then this absurd posse happened that we received an amendment at 12.39 p.m., which Mr Vetter read earlier, which now excludes Members of the Landtag from this basic application. In other words, in the future, Members of Parliament are not Members of Parliament, although the European Directive clearly states that they are Members of Parliament or members of similar legislative bodies. If someone here wants to explain to me that the Lower Austrian Landtag, when it comes to a decision on building law and a law there, is not a legislative body that the Vorarlberger Landtag, if it decides a Youth Protection Act, is not a legislative body, then I am excited how you do it. I guess much more – as I said at 12.39 a.m. we got this amendment – that at about 12.20 p.m. either Land Captain Pröll or Land Captain Pühringer called and said: No, there's something we need to change, we still have to get rid of it so that we don't burden it in any way! Mr Krainer then told me that what we are saying is not true, because it is “or” in the directive. I read that. For example, the Directive also states that members of audit courts or central bank management bodies are particularly politically exposed persons. If you follow Mr Krainer's argument, we can now choose this: Do we want them to be central bank directors or members of billing courts? - That's the same thing inside. ‘Members of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies of State-owned undertakings’. After the argument of the SPÖ, I choose whether it is the supervisory body that is politically exposed, or the management body. This argument is absurd. This is an increase of taxpayers who have lost a lot of money absurdly because of all the corruption that has happened in Austria over the last few decades. That's an insult. It's an insanity that you're trying in the last minute to push this through, and that's just because once again probably two of the princes of darkness called and said: You've got to take my countrymen out! - That's why we're hopping here. This is an intolerable state.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17083	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17106	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! We are currently holding a very lively debate on the current Professional Law Amendment Act. Mr. Vetter, you broke in the shortness of the speaking time yourself. You've explained too long, you've got to get to the content faster, and that's what's going on with a bigger club. Back to the subject that Mr Scherak has just discussed. I think this is a very professional issue. I may refer to a subject which is also contained in this law, in order to increase the amount of cover for liability insurance. I think that's a very sensible law. The basic amount of coverage will be increased because we know that there is also an ever higher level of damage in everyday traffic. I would like to come to the subject of: We are creating traffic more and more ourselves. In the last two days, we have discussed the thinning of rural areas and the structural loss in rural areas. That means: Every job we lose in rural areas means a vehicle more on the road. People have no other way, they can't use the bim, the fast train, the regular bus, they need a vehicle. No one talks about what this costs the workers. What time it costs! We're always just talking about working time. We also need to talk about time to work very slowly, i.e. the time of departure. I think this should be much more taken into account, because of course it is environmentally and climate-political, but also in the money tax. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A key point is the following: We know the drivers are the milk cow of this government. Over the last ten years, we have increased the engine-related insurance tax – in addition to the pickerl – by 44 percent. We get calls in our office daily with the question of why the insurance has become more expensive. – No, insurance premiums, liability premiums are cheaper! I should therefore like to make a motion for a resolution – and I believe that this proposal is essential to fairness for our citizens, fairness for rural areas; it is for all those who depend on the car but also on equality with Germany – that the calculation of premiums in the insurance scheme is of time value and not of new value. Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply not understandable and unacceptable for someone to pay the premium of new value in a five-year-old car. If he fails tomorrow and thus lies on the roof, he gets the proceeds from the time value. That's what we want to do, and that's what we want to do more fairly: Fairness to citizens! I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for support. This is not a Christmas gift, it is not a pension hundred, but it is fairness to our Austrian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17182	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17236	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17257	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too would like to talk about the change in professional law for lawyers and notaries. Previously, it is good that we develop the compatibility of family and profession for notarial candidates because, I think, our goal must be to give people the opportunity to stay in the profession, but, of course, to be able to agree with a family. That's good one day. However, we have no pleasure in implementing the money laundering directive, because we also see it as a massive intervention in the relationship between clients and professional representatives, especially with the deadline that the money laundering agency has time to report back to the notary or to the lawyer. I'm telling you something from practice: If you conclude a purchase contract today, the clients call relatively quickly once, and the buyer asks when he is finally entered into the base book, and the seller asks when he finally gets the money. We must not then say: Hold on, there's someone else who's checking! – Above all, it is also a bit unpleasant to explain to him why it is being examined for so long and why it is being examined at all, because perhaps – as Mr Jarolim said earlier almost correctly or actually correctly – the notary and the lawyer are a bit made a spy. The second point is quite funny about this directive, namely: We are re-introducing a punishment that we have already overcome, namely, notaries and lawyers, as in the Middle Ages, may be given to the Pranger, to a digital Pranger, where name and law firm addresses are published when someone has made a mistake. Thank God has come back into the government template that can be excluded, but nevertheless this is a punishment we, I believe, should leave behind. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to say that this is something that comes from Brussels, and we have just had to implement the minimum. Everything that comes from Brussels is decided by anyone there, and there are also representatives of the Federal Ministry of Justice, in the relevant specialist committee, probably you too, Federal Minister. To this end, one has to say that one should perhaps take a little better care of what will be decided in Brussels, perhaps put his veto there or seek alliance partners there so that something like this can no longer happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just to say, we're doing something that comes from Brussels, and we have nothing to do with it – it's not that simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17310	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. May. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17333	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer to the Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act. This is the implementation of an EU directive, the so-called NFI Directive, which obliges the so-called PIUs – companies of public interest with more than 500 employees – to produce a non-verbal report. What does this report say? – It is necessary to report on environmental standards, on social and employment issues, and to report on respect for human rights and the fight against corruption. It needs to be reported on how this is done in the respective company, what concepts are there, what results are achieved each year in the review of these concepts and what risks are particularly involved in the implementation of these concepts. Who cares? – The government template states: 125 companies. I admit, that sounds like a really great tool to make improvements there. The basic interest is very positive, but if 125 large farms have to report on how the supply chain is built, it meets many suppliers, meets the producer, goes down to the last link. How is a company – only of the 125 companies – to report how this chain is going? This is likely to result in every producer, every Dealers must produce a variety of reports confirming that they do not work in Austria, that they turn off the light in the evening, that they take other environmental issues into account. There are very many of them, and therefore we can only agree today with one crying eye, but also with a laughing eye, because we have implemented the directive in such a way that there is no gold plating that this is not an audit that not all these companies, which are not subject to economic auditing, need to have this report reviewed. That is why we say: Yes, we must take care of what comes from Brussels, but if something comes, we must implement it as this directive has been implemented. The negotiators of this Directive have achieved a good negotiating result. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17373	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17395	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! To adapt the minimum amount of insurance in the transport sector: In May 2016, the Commission of the European Union informed the Member States of an increase in the European consumer price index by 8.36 percent. This will result in a change in minimum amount of insurance: For personal damage, the €1.22 million per accident victim or just over €6 million per injury, for property damage €1.22 million. This would mean that only five seriously injured persons will benefit from full coverage, and beyond, benefits will no longer be used. An adjustment of the minimum benefits should therefore be agreed, although this measure leads to higher insurance premiums, which however constitutes a measure of self-protection. However, from various publications, it should be noted that long-term health care costs cannot be covered with this adjustment, for example, long-term health damage and resulting long-term care. Similarly, in the case of damage to property and personal injury to railway or bus accidents with numerous injuries. In the age of high-quality health and care at a high price level, the proposed minimum insurance amounts do not appear to be sufficient, so that they can be countered at a private level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17425	Mr Feichtinger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17446	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The primary focus of the proposal, which deals with the professional law amendment law, is the implementation of the Fourth Money laundering Directive. We are putting it into practice early so that the people concerned can continue to have enough time to implement it. The focus is on legal clarity, legal certainty both for lawyers and for notaries, but especially for clients, with regard to their relations with lawyers and notaries. The Directive provides for an adaptation to current Union and international requirements for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in the Staff Regulations, with particular reference to the role of lawyers and notaries. There are also changes and improvements in legal assistance, in particular as regards the rules for women in these professions. The key words here are a better calculation of child rearing times and certain exemptions from contributions. Mr Federal Minister, let me say last but not least a Christmas wish: According to the hearing, you intend to introduce the Adult Protection Act to the Council of Ministers before Christmas. I hope I heard it right. [[I should like to congratulate Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] We would be very pleased about this, and we would be very pleased if this matter, which has been widely negotiated, which is our absolute agreement, could be implemented as soon as possible with the existing € 13 million that the Minister of Finance has to grant to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17483	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17504	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I too can comment on the sustainability reports. So far, it has been customary for listed companies to present and publish reports on their financial indicators. This is State of the Art and affects around 150 to 200 listed companies, and this is about: more than 500 employees, 40 million euros in turnover. There is criticism that the economy may have obligations. Of course, this is always a field of tension, but I can put it in a larger frame: The United Nations has set itself the so-called Millennium Goals. Among other things, there is the fact that hunger in the world is breast-feeding, the infant mortality The European Council also called on the Commission and the Member States to take action in this area in the field of education and training in the field of education and training. With this one was largely successful, it was actually achieved a lot, while breast-feeding hunger and similar things. The successor goals are the Sustainable Development Goals, i.e. the UN Sustainable Goals, which concern health aspects, the water supply of people, enough food and the like, to which all Heads of State and Government have agreed. They said that these things should continue. Finally, the global climate agreement was concluded in Paris. All of this requires States and all sectors of society to do something actively. In this light one has to see these sustainability reports, because it makes sense for such large companies to report on how ecological their footprint is, how to reduce harmful greenhouse gases and similar things. That makes sense. What distinguishes us from the ÖVP from the Greens is that we say, of course, that it should be legally binding, but nevertheless voluntary and not state-regulated. There we meet at what Mr Scherak said in the free competition. A company that does something for the environment, for society, is supposed to say so too. There is also to be a competition for positive ideas. In this sense, I think it makes sense because we need such competition at European level and ultimately worldwide, because many people are very likely to look at such products and are willing to consume them even if they are produced ecologically and socially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17546	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17568	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a third party, I am now referring to the increase in the minimum amount of insurance which, among other things, will and will be defined by the Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance Act. In October 2016, ladies and gentlemen, 6 657 784 vehicles were registered in Austria. Each of these vehicles may eventually be involved in a smaller or larger accident. Accidents often arise as a result of minor carelessness. You may look at your phone once – you shouldn't do that, but all these things happen, and they can happen to any of us. According to Statistics Austria, there were 37,960 accidents involving personal injury in 2015. The number of actual accidents, even without damage to persons, is certainly much higher. An example: Let's assume you drive home after work in the afternoon and suddenly the vehicle collapses behind one with the back of your own car. The damage is found, but the insurance does not cover it entirely because the minimum amount of insurance was too low. The rest will then be paid by the person who has risen up, or he should be paid by that person. One has to take care of the payment of this remaining money, which means additional work. The person who has risen up will incur additional costs, which in the worst case may even cause him or her to accept debts, but he or she may not even be able to do so. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Therefore, we do not want the question whether or not damage can be done without additional debt depends on whether the person concerned is affluent or not. The minimum amount of insurance is therefore duly adjusted. You can already argue or talk about maybe it should be even higher. However, it is correct and important that, as a result of this change, the minimum amount of insurance is increased. Protection is improved, and the benefits are more double. The person on whose car the other one has gone up is now more likely to get the damage replaced and no longer has to argue with the other person about it. The person who caused the accident no longer has to do the damage himself and is less exposed to the risk of making debts or even falling into poverty. This law significantly increases the minimum amount of insurance and improves the situation of each driver and individual driver. Also important is: It is through this measure that we were assured not to expect an increase in premiums. This means for us consumers, for us drivers, a higher level of insurance protection at the same premium. This is a success for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17619	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17640	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the NFI Directive. A relatively bad directive has not improved because of national implementation, so I think it can be summarized briefly. It would have been an opportunity for a real paradigm change: away from pure profit, from purely economic figures, to an entrepreneurial responsibility, which could have also entailed impacts on the environment, human rights, labour rights and social policy and could have been subject to the obligation to publish. Only about 125 Austrian companies will now be affected, because only those have more than 500 employees. I think it would have been a good step to increase entrepreneurship. Yes, it is right, it is ultimately also about the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles, the Guiding Principles on Human Rights, Human Rights Responsibility and Enterprises. The problem is exactly these principles. Mr Scherak, it is not a question of me, for example, to stick to the label Child-Friendly or the posteratier, but it is about transparency and the same benchmarks. It is not about a further concern of companies by corporate social responsibility, which does not bring much, but about clarity and comparability. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved with this directive and also with national transposition. It is a step in the right direction, but I think that we have a lot to do both at EU level and in Austria, in order to really serve the interests of consumers as far as these parameters are concerned. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17686	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 39: Draft Professional Law Amending Act 2016 in 1346 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have tabled an amendment which is similar. 1, 2 and 8. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 40: Draft Minimum Insurance Totals-Valorisations Act 2016 together with Title and receipt in 1341 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This was unanimously adopted at the third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on 'Time value as the basis of the premium calculation of cash insurance'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 41: Draft sustainability and diversity improvement law in 1406 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the majority, so the draft is also adopted at third reading. [[17:06:54]] 42. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1348, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Law on Legal and Public Prosecutors' Service, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade and the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade and the Law in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Service law Novelle 2016) (1368 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17843	We're coming to 42. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17870	Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's about the Novelle Service Law and there's loud pronouns, I can keep myself very short. This is the salary balance for public servants from 1st century onwards. Yes, everyone knows. Mrs Karl will then put forward another amendment, because we did not expect it to be brought together between the negotiations and the committee dates. It is generally the tables of salary approaches, and we have discussed an important issue in order to be able to take account of the management and legal certainty of the individual colleagues concerned quickly. All know the problem MBUO 2 on MBUO 1. Now it's about how we transfer them, because there are a lot of individual careers. We have decided to transfer 2 200 of the approximately 2 500 contracts concerned – re-rounded – by law and to make the rest with individual modes. That was a consensual matter, in which everyone said: Let us try to achieve this in the interests of those concerned! I would like to thank the public officials on this occasion – I am always very happy to do so, even because we are just before Christmas – and especially our parliament staff, the club staff, our PaMis, all those who are there for us all the time. – All right! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I wish all of us a nice and contemplative Christmas season. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17916	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17937	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Like the first Service Law Novelle 2016 is also the now present 2. Service Law Novelle 2016 a successful package containing a whole series of individual measures. I would like to stress in particular the modernisation of disciplinary law, which is required in the interests of victim protection. At present, in the disciplinary procedure, only minor witnesses are required to have a spatially separate audiovisual experience. Without a doubt, however, it may also be in the interest of the other witnesses to be questioned in this way. Now, then, this questioning possibility is extended to all witnesses if it is in their interest. Consider, for example, the case that a witness was injured or threatened by the accused in her sexual sphere. Another important change concerns judges and prosecutors: The Law requires the authorisation of neither a conviction of a three-month term exceeding a three-month term of imprisonment for a criminal offence committed by purpose nor a criminal proceedings initiated for a crime. On the other hand, there is a lack of a corresponding rule in the Judicial and Public Prosecutor's Service Act. However, it should be borne in mind that the activity as a judge or prosecutor belongs to the absolute core area of the administration of the High Authority, in which decisions which are serious and deeply involved in their rights of personality are taken, then a particularly high level of integrity and a sense of responsibility is required here. It is therefore essential to allow only such persons access to those professions which are undisputed and which are not subject to criminal proceedings for serious offences. Therefore, it is now ensured that no one can be included in the judicial preparatory service, which was sentenced to a three-month prison sentence for a criminal offence committed with intention, or against which a criminal proceedings were initiated on the grounds of a crime. Some of these amendments are also due to the implementation of ECJ and EU directives. The Wage Law adapts the provisions on the leave allowance for officials to the ECJ-Judikatur, according to which a right to holiday replacement may not be excluded, irrespective of the reason for the retirement from the service, if the official or the official in individual cases was not in a position to consume the rest leave because of an illness, accident or disease. It is therefore normised that, even if there is a reason for exclusion, it should nevertheless be examined in detail whether the official or the official was entitled to leave during the period in question. In addition, when formulating the exclusion grounds for the holiday replacement, a clarification is made that holiday consumption is a priority over a financial charge. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I am bringing forward a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Mr Mag. Dr Karl, colleagues on the 2nd. Service law Novelle 2016. This is mainly about the implementation of the 2017 salary balance for the public service. I would like to thank all those who participated in this salary statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e17998	The amendment tabled by Mrs Dr. Karl in the broad outlines has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40196	Now Mrs. State Secretary Mag. Duzdar. I'll give it to her. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40217	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's your second. Service law Novelle 2016, which includes, on the one hand, the salary adjustment for the federal staff and, on the other hand, some technical adaptations to Union law. We have succeeded in reaching a salary conclusion with the Public Service Trade Union, which provides for a salary increase for all federal employees of 1.3 percent. It is precisely this increase in salary that is to be decided today. At this point I would like to join Minister of Finance Dr. Schelling and also at the Public Service Trade Union, the Chairman, Dr. Norbert Schnedl and Hannes Gruber, thank you for the constructive cooperation we had from the beginning. It was also the reason why we were able to make such rapid progress in the interest of the federal staff. The salary increase is 1.3 per cent, which is 0.55 per cent higher than inflation between October 2015 and September 2016, which was 0.75 per cent. It is also within the scope of the results of the collective treaty negotiations for 2017. This means that a young police officer will earn €380 more after training in 2017 or, for example, a compulsory school teacher with professional experience in 2017 will receive €680 more. I think that this increase in salary is very fair, balanced and fair, to the employees in the public service, but at the same time to the citizens. The major challenge is to create the gap between the budgetary requirements and the recognition of the performance and commitment of staff. I think we succeeded. At the same time, we also strengthen the purchasing power of the 204 000 directly affected employees. Let me briefly address some aspects of the Novelle Service Law. We have already – and that has already been mentioned – with the 1. Service law-Novelle expanded the protection of victims in the disciplinary procedure in June. At that time, it was decided that witnesses in the disciplinary procedure could teach trustees. This time you have a novel, which means that for the first time, there is also the possibility of audiovisual hearing. This basically means that persons who are exposed to sexual harassment, for example, must not face their tormenters in the disciplinary proceedings. I think this was an important step and we have continued to be very good in the field of victim protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are two more measures that I would like to mention here, which provide for an adaptation to Union law. This includes, for example, the payment of leave compensation for officials who stop their duties if they prove that: that they could not consume it. It also includes adapting to a 2014 directive on improving freedom of movement of workers in the public sector. We are therefore setting up free movement of persons and anchoring an explicit prohibition of discrimination against citizens of the Union. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to agree to this Novelle Service Law so that the salary increase or salary adjustment for our federal staff with 1. ==References====External links== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40271	Mr Mag. Kumpitsch is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40293	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! After Mrs. State Secretary and Mrs. Karl's work on the Service Law Novelle in detail and explained how this works with the audiovisual hearing of witnesses and what the criminal record information looks like, I would like to say briefly: We also find this solution to be correct and will support it, but, Mr Pendl, there is always, because where light is, there is also shadow, and unfortunately, on this novelle there is also a shadow, namely, always if you are not satisfied with existing legal regulations, you simply do not find yourself with it and do not do what you need to address it, but try to circumvent these rules through new laws. I mean the change to the Staff Representative's Act. Very briefly to the explanation: With 1. In January 2017, the political district of Vienna-Umgebung was dissolved and its agenda taken over by the surrounding districts Tulln, Korneuburg, St. Pölten-Land and Bruck an der Leitha. As a result, the staff is also divided into the four District Police Commanders. Under the current Staff Representatives Act, new elections would now be mandatory, namely: If more than 25 percent of the workforce changes, new personnel representations must be carried out. And this is obviously not what you want, because you simply create a new legal provision, § 42o, and it states that the operations of the department committee for public security staff, originally set up by the Vienna-Umgebung District Police Commission, will be continued until the end of the current term of office of staff representation. This reminds me again of the government's action last year, when we had to master the wave of migration and refugees, when we did not respect laws, ignored them or even bypassed them by means of constitutional provisions, for example, by imposing quotas on the communities. That's not necessary! I think we don't need these tricks, even if it's only for a district – Vienna-environment – to carry out personnel representation elections. Mrs. State Secretary, Minister! We do not need that, and that does not give a good picture of this government. Despite this shadow, the rules are quite positive, I have mentioned this earlier. Above all, with regard to the final salary for the public service, which really is to be recognized, we will nevertheless give this novelle the consent. Finally, Mr Pendl, I would like to wish all my colleagues, but also all the public officials, a beautiful Christmas party and a good slide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40335	The next speaker is Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40356	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to address one aspect of the Novelle Service Law, namely the Disciplinary Law. We remember that one year ago this horrific case of a WU professor who was serious to students, and the Disciplinary Commission, in our opinion, has come to a far too low penalty, an inadequate measure. He only had to pay four months' wages and has not been suspended, not released. He was then suspended by the university itself, but he has not been released. Based on this, it was discussed how potential victims are actually protected from sexual assaults, from sexual harassment in the public service. At the time, we have tabled a proposal which is now being followed in half by this Novelle Service Law. We very much welcome the fact that, in future, it will also be possible in the disciplinary procedure to make an audiovisual agreement. Why is that so important? – Sexual harassment, addressing sexual assaults as a woman is extremely difficult. This starts with the fact that you are usually only too two and that you are not believed. It is difficult to prove that these things have actually happened. It is a great effort to report this, to run it, to write the reports. It is stressful, psychologically stressful to repeat these scenes, to tell them again, and it is of course particularly stressful if, as in the disciplinary procedure, one may have to do so so far even when the perpetrator is present. In this respect, it is very welcome that we now have the opportunity, especially in such cases – we extend this possibility to all witnesses in disciplinary proceedings – in which it is particularly important to be able to express via video, so that the confrontation with the perpetrator in this form no longer has to be done. I'll stick to that too. Fortunately, this was not the last Novelle Service Law, and I would ask very much at this point to stay there. Clearly, in criminal law, we have comprehensive protection provisions for victims of attacks and harassment – rightly! – because that is extremely important. Clearly, a disciplinary procedure is not a criminal procedure, but from the burden it makes no difference for the person concerned whether it has to repeat all these things before a court or before a disciplinary commission. That is why we also need a right to psychosocial accompaniment in disciplinary law. We want the women to talk. It affects women in particular. We want women to talk that they break silence, and we should support them as much as possible, because only in this way can we become lords of the attacks in our society, and unfortunately there are also in the public service. I would ask you to take this into account in the next novel. We will, of course, bring that back in time. Anyway, I say thank you very much, the fact that audiovisual consultation is now included in the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40402	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40423	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, 1.3 per cent is a ceasefire that the Public Service Trade Union has tipped out to you, Mrs. State Secretary! We remember the increase in pensions that we assumed a 0.8% inflation, so the trade union has beaten out more than one and a half of the inflation rate. Of course, the negotiations then started quickly. It's not a famous leaf! What you have probably received was a gift from the Minister of Finance to the new Secretary of State, which you may in turn have passed on to the new trade union forest in your new role. However, what would be called for in such negotiations would be to look through the right of service to points that are no longer modern. This includes, for example, the lunch break paid. It's coming from a different time. Such things have you, according to my knowledge, but I like to be better informed there, not picked up. So you might as well negotiate counter-actions. That's just a tip for the next year. And then we still have a ticking time bomb, because the pre-service accounting we have repaired for the fourth time will already be discriminatory again, because, of course, nothing will be rehabilitated at all with the removal of pre-emptive days until 1948. That's about billions if you don't finally get it properly and legally secure. Some say, €3 billion, some say, €4 billion, others say, it's about €20 billion in the long term. So you didn't get the really important points. We agree to the increase in salary, but we are missing creative measures on your side.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40456	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40478	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can do it for a second, too. Mr Kumpitsch has already said everything we have to say about it. We will agree to the increase in salary, which is all right. The government template is in order from our point of view. The only small horse foot that can be mentioned is in the resolution of the district of Vienna-Umgebung. Yeah, it's not supposed to happen worse. In this sense, this government template, the 2. Service law novelle, a good one and find our consent. I too would like to take this opportunity to thank all public servants for their impeccable work. The Republic wouldn't work so well without you. Thank you for your daily service for the security and administration of this Republic of Austria. – A warm thank you from my side!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40511	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 1348 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, Dr Karl, colleagues. I am therefore going to vote, as always, on the supplementary or amendment tabled and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Mr Pendl, Dr Karl, colleagues, tabled an amendment or amendment which refers to Articles 1 to 5, 7 and 8. Who is in favour of this request? – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the unanimity and therefore also accepted at third reading. [[17:29:43]] 43. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1255, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Administrative Courts Act, the Federal Administrative Court Law, the Administrative Court Law 1985, the Constitutional Court Law 1953 and the Law of Law (1369 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40579	So we come to 43. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40607	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The issue is that the Constitutional Court has annulled § 40 of the Administrative Procedure Act. The reason for the withdrawal was that, although one has granted a procedural aid to an administrative criminal procedure, it has not been allowed to exclude a procedural aid for the normal administrative procedure. However, Article 6 of the Convention on Human Rights and its case law of the European Court of Human Rights states that this representation of procedural assistance is not only to be guaranteed for criminal proceedings, but also for civil proceedings. In order to obtain an analogy with the administrative procedure, the law has now been amended to allow for administrative procedures to be dealt with in a way similar to civil proceedings. It shall enter into force on the 1. January 2017, exactly on the day on which the old regulation, which was adopted on 31 January 2017, entered into force. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is the extension of legal protection for the simple citizen who cannot afford a representative or a defender. This is a positive development of our legal protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40639	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40660	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My previous speaker explained the content of this novel. Therefore, I would just like to add one sentence, and I would like to point out the resolution we have taken up in the Committee, in which we ask the Federal Minister to draw up a paper on the fact that the conclusion of the oral proceedings has a pre-exclusion effect. In this way, we want to achieve a process acceleration and ensure that administrative procedures can no longer be delayed unnecessarily in the future. That's why we're looking for it. They are very, very much, because this is in the sense of the administration, but even more so in the sense of the parties concerned. I can only say more about this: Thank you very much for the work this year! I wish all those involved happy holidays, a nice time and all the good.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40688	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40709	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a unanimous matter. We also believe that it is right to extend procedural assistance to the procedures before the Federal Administrative Court and before the administrative courts. This is absolutely correct from our point of view, and that is why we agree. In our opinion, however, it is not entirely in line with the system that the legal aid of lawyers is not, as is usual, paid by the federal government, but financed by the Bar Association itself. It would have been more sensible in the sense of system conformity to regulate this uniformly. This is our only criticism, but we nevertheless agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40736	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40758	Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the new regulation of procedural aid. We will agree. The problem is that the weaknesses of judicial assistance in the field of justice are also visible in the public sector. The basic problem is always the same. A request for procedural assistance may be made by a lawyer. The problem is, however, that the lawyer is not paid directly, but the Bar is getting money for the pension fund. Therefore, lawyers who are proposed will: very often reject the takeover of procedural assistance because they do not have any personal benefit from it. I don't want to blame them. This is the logical consequence of not paying them directly. It will be no different in the field of public law. Then there is a compulsory allocation, and then the parties concerned are very often dissatisfied with the defence of procedural aid. This cannot, of course, be blamed on the public sector, because this system only follows the field of justice. That is to say, we should look at the classification of procedural aid as a whole. The second point is, and we have already discussed this in the Committee, that if there is no prospect, procedural aid will not be granted. This is basically not quite wrong, there is only the risk that this is already a preliminary decision and then the main decision of this preliminary ruling follows. There should therefore be an evaluation of whether this is actually the case or whether these concerns are wrong. The last point to be critical of is that procedural assistance covers the provision of the lawyer, but not the costs of experts. This is a shortcoming in that the costs of experts in procedures can be extreme obstacles to enforcement and thus possibly failure or failure to carry out a procedure, it must be said correctly that would otherwise be conducted. This draft law contains a number of points which are intended to regulate the appointment of administrative judges. This is an important improvement because the order is strongly focused on ordering judicial jurisdiction. This is good because we want the administrative judge and judicial jurisdiction to be of the same level, borne by the same spirit, in the best case even an administrative judge, an administrative judge once a judge or judge and vice versa. There are two differences, however, which we find to be a pity. The one thing is, if someone is not invited to the hearing, he also has no right to give up on this hearing. This will create a great margin of discretion and the possibility for candidates to be sorted out, which will not then have the opportunity to request a hearing for themselves. The second is a significant difference to judicial jurisdiction. There is a need for longer legal practice. This quality feature lacks administrative jurisdiction. We also consider this to be not entirely unproblemable, because it is a quality criterion that protects against the fact that politically related persons may be accommodated in administrative jurisdiction by means of political influence. In this sense, we agree. The tendency of the law is already right, but there are some things you will observe critically. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40806	The next speaker was Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40827	Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, we will also agree because, on the one hand, it is only the implementation of a highly judicial judgment, which clearly states that we must also have the possibility of ensuring procedural assistance in the normal administrative procedure. I think it's right that we can do the same anyway. The situation – Mr Stefan has already mentioned this – is already absurd that the payment of the Barbarella should be rescinded. Of course I understand the argument, dear Albert Steinhauser, but there has to be a point somewhere. It is important that we see that we make enforcement as easy as possible for citizens to come to their right. But there are always completely hopeless procedures to try out people. And that's why I think it's right that there's a brake threshold, a justified threshold. That is why it is also important for this to be regulated as well as in the civil process regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40864	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1369 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. We now come to the vote on the resolution on the Committee's report 1369 of the Supplements concerning measures to prevent the removal of proceedings. Who agrees? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 186.) [[17:39:31]] 44. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Heinz-Christian Strache, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Ing. Robert Lugar, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rehabilitation of the Parliamentary Building (PGSG) (1401 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40947	Now we're coming to 44. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no mention of this. The debate is closed. [[17:40:08]] We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1401 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Abg. Krainer: Go on!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is, in turn, the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:40:32]] 45. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Telecommunications Office for Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland, BMVIT-631,540/0423-III/FBW/2016, for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Dr. Marcus Franz (1363 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e40997	We're now reaching 45. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41024	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the immunity committee, we agreed that if a member of the National Council sends an information about his political blog to the remaining 182 MPs, there is a connection with the activity as a national council member. In this sense it was unanimously decided that non-delivery would be possible. So this question is actually out of dispute. However, what can be discussed very well is § 107 of the Telecommunications Act. § 107 Telecommunications Act was extended in 2005 with the aim of preventing the transmission of spam by electronic means, whether text messages, e-mails or other electronic transmission forms. We must not forget, however, that since 2005, a number of changes have occurred in this area: Who had a smartphone in 2005? How present were modern forms of communication in 2005? It is not surprising, therefore, that more and more cases have recently occurred in which a persecution is being conducted according to this anti-spam paragraph, but one may well ask whether it is really spam. On the other hand, unwanted shipments are often not traceable, as they often come from abroad and cannot be determined by the sender. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The digital world is changing rapidly, and I therefore believe it is right and important that we look at this regulation a little bit more closely in this context – and after its more than ten years of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41061	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41083	Mr President. High house! Yes, there is a political context when a Member writes to all the other Members. Finally, this regulation is absurd, which has come from a very positive spirit, namely that people are protected from spam. In the beginning, it was only economic interests, so that consumers are protected from a flood of advertising. That's what you took back in a novel and said: Actually, every mass e-mail is something bad. Now we come to an example. Mr Franz made a mistake, he sent a message to 182 Members from his private e-mail address. I have three e-mail addresses myself – I don't know how they are summarized and from which my e-mails are actually sent away. For example, Mr Köchl of the Greens also sent a presentation about a cookbook to the 182 MEPs, about his parliamentary address.gv.at – this is unwarranted by administrative law! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But if you send the e-mail from another address – but to the same group of recipients! Then, at once, a criminal prosecution with a threatening administrative penalty is started up to €37 000. I would also like to thank the Greens for having introduced a good style here in the house with this ad: that they immediately show each other at everything they go. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] We'll see where that'll lead. I also want to remember that very, very many citizens turn to us every day, including within the framework of their right of petition – what happens then? [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] I have heard that there is supposed to be an ad, because the Catholic action with an e-mail, with a real mass e-mail, has turned to Members – I do not know to what extent that is true. I reach a lot of e-mails: from left political groups, from right groups, from groups coming from the middle of society coming from above coming from the bottom, from the northeast, from the northwest, from the south – a lot of fun in mutual advertising! Thank you, greens!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41143	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41165	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We obviously have someone in the house who feels like a placekeeper here, and other Members face criminal accusations, which we need to discuss in the immunity committee. This costs us all the time and, of course, it also leads to a debate. [[Abg. Haider: Blogwart, not placewart!]] Mr. Walter Rosenkranz mentioned it: There are other people who send e-mails to all Members of Parliament. There is Mr Köchl, of which we have already heard that we send an invitation to participate in the presentation of a cookbook. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This may have been sent from the Parliament.gv.at address – whether this is actually an exception to administrative criminal law or not, we do not know that. This is a presumption that it is, but I'm not sure if I can share this presumption. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The Authority says that!]] I'd invite you, rather Matthias Köchl, to hand you over and pay for your self-advertising, so that you'll hear if that's really the case. That would only be appropriate. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] But of course we have another problem: There are a lot of people from outside who send us email to Members of Parliament, and of course not to write to everyone individually, but to send mass emails. I think that's all right. I brought you one of many examples, which is from the Austrian Bishops' Conference. This one invited me to an ecumenical service – there the Austrian Bishops' Conference caught exactly the right one! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I invite the Austrian Bishops' Conference, Mr. Walter Lukaseder, not to repay self-addiction now, but to confess and repent – that would do enough, and I let it be used. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Finally, I still wish you a blessed Thursday evening and a happy weekend!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41246	The next speaker was Mr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41267	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Right ahead: Happy Christmas is to be known to all of us, including the Green Group. [[Abg. Höbart: There is no Christmas for those!]] I have just heard that it is unusual for Members themselves to speak on behalf of their own who are to be rescinded with extradition and to be assigned to the Immunity Committee for extradition. However, since the matter with these emails is such a general phenomenon that affects all of us daily, I think that I am not here as a person concerned, but as one who can perhaps initiate a discussion and also contribute to a change of law. In principle, however, I think it is a relatively bad style to talk to each other in a place where Parliament is in itself the place of the Republic where one speaks to each other! ., then pointing back to another Member. [[Abg. That's right!]] Unfortunately, I think this is appropriate for the image of the Greens, but in principle this is something for which you can in fact apologise and say: I'm sorry, that was shot beyond the goal; I'm going to be fair to the green forefinger party and fortification party, but I've learned something now! [[Call the FPÖ: Shameful!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This opportunity is open to the colleague who has done this – I am now deliberately not saying the name to expose no one here – that one offers each other a shakehand, especially during the pre-Christmas season. This makes a bad impression in general in the public, even in the social media this was a topic for a few days, you must not forget either. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The Greens are now in a breaking phase – my Council as a wild, free Member: Do something for your image, we reconcile! – With these words I would like to close again. MEP Köchl has already been mentioned – he has obviously done this more skillfully than I do or know more or with a certain chuzpe, I do not know. We all received the invitation to present the cookbook, which was also a mass e-mail. I'm also not quite sure if that's admirable – I'd never show it, that's not my style that I'm advocating people. I go open to everyone and say: Look out, so and that's the thing, let's talk about it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] I think that should be the basic principle in Parliament: Let's talk about it, and let's not show each other! Again: Merry Christmas! Good luck! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41355	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41376	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Regardless of the specific case of colleague Franz, who actually only invited us to read his blog via an e-mail – I have to admit, I have not read the blog, I do not share his political positioning, he knows, but I have not deleted the e-mail, and I have not been upset about it either; I have seen no reason to refund an advertisement because the e-mail has just come from a colleague here – we need a discussion regarding the use of new media. [[Abg. Höbart: Is recommended! You can do it!]] There is now also an opinion from the Legal, Legislative and Scientific Service, which writes – and I consider it particularly problematic – that this § 107 Telecommunications Act should in principle also apply to citizens who send us Members emails. You know that we all get relatively many emails that are addressed to us all. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly!]] That means that these citizens would actually fulfil a criminal record. In my opinion, that is what I believe – Mr Walter Rosenkranz has already done – with the basic state law, with the right of petition of citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] We will have to look at this very carefully, and if there is a need for repair due to the new media, we will also have to go for repair. In this sense: happy Christmas!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41436	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41465	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very interesting debate that started with the introduction, it's about cooperation and an insanity – or how was that? – style in the house that should not be cared for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Right!]] It is interesting that all those who have spoken have apparently not read these blog contributions, which Mr Franz wrote. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I have already read them, and there is a very clear legal system that determines which spam emails are forbidden. When it comes to the style in this house, I'm just saying one thing: There has never been a Member in this House who is running a blog, on which almost daily attacks are made on Members of this House who are at the border of criminal complaint – daily! – on which conspiracy theories are placed in the world. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] - Yeah, just keep going! A blog that puts conspiracy theories into the world and harasss the representatives of this House with biological, sexist things that are unbearable. [[Prolonged unrest in the meeting room.]] – Can we perhaps keep the noise level in such a way that one understands the speech? – That would be interesting. I'll read you two things, maybe that's possible in such a way that you can understand.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41521	Ladies and gentlemen! The speaker is actually quite right that he cannot explain his remarks in this way. We have the regulation that intermediate calls are of course possible, but to such an extent that it is nevertheless possible for the speaker to make his statements. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I call Mr Brosz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41545	For the members of the Social Democracy, there is something to read for them; a blog article of 13th century. September with the title: “Is Social Democracy in the End?” In this text it says: "And thirdly, the idea of equality attacks the essence of life per se, for biological evolution alone is based on inequality and change." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] “The creation of equality works in principle only through violence or pressure.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sherak and the FPÖ.]] For those who are interested in the question of sexism – that is what Mr Franz defined on 21 January. September so: “Anatomy...” – Is this the style of FPÖ trying to call down the debate? [[Subsequent calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You can speak for yourself, but maybe you can hear it. It'll take you at least five minutes. I think it's unbearable.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41596	There is also a call for action, but it is given by the President-in-Office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Mr Brosz, you can continue your remarks, and I really want all Members to make this possible. This also has something to do with mutual respect. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41626	==References== September, Mr. Franz writes: “Man’s anatomy has developed over millions of years and is clearly differentiated as a man or woman in 99% of cases, but if one has nothing else to do with it, then no one knows exactly whether he/she/she is a man or a female.” [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: It is precisely this regulation of the Telecommunications Act that no one has the right to send such a scrap around the world, nor with the break of the clear regulation, that there must be a possibility of cancellation of a newsletter, which you have also failed to comply with. [[Call the FPÖ: What?- Oh, my God!]] I think this is an absurd debate, that is a clear... [[Subsequent calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] – That’s really incredible! [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, incredible!]] – This reminds us of earlier times when one believed that it would be possible to prevent Parliament debates by means of volume and downshearing. It's no wonder that's what's coming from you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Maybe you'll listen now! Nor is it surprising that the colleagues from the FPÖ in the immunity committee have been particularly excited. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] It was a day before the story came up that the presidential candidate Hofer sent a letter to all Austrians from abroad, of whom he had the email address, which is also prohibited under the Telecommunications Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] There were about 200 ads – not from us, but from foreign-Austrian and foreign-Austrian people who felt harassed because the next breach of justice happened. [[call to the FPÖ.]] While you can get the addresses, it is not for you to use Spammail's political advertising. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] When Mr. Franz personally spreads his theories about the po-gross and his positions about the way one approaches the female sex, he is free to do so. [[Abg. Hoebart: on the matter!]] But it is also free to all those who feel bothered by taking advantage of the law and saying: I don't want to get this, stick to the laws! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That you are talking about style, while you have to be insulted by The Daily Franz every day – by the way, he has announced that he is called “The Daily Franz”, that is, we would have gotten it every day! – that you stand here and say: The style is bad, I think it's an absurd formulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41752	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41779	I think these statements by Mr Brosz were very helpful because they exposed the Greens. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] It exposes them, and if you've been careful, you see exactly how the greens think so. It is not for the Greens that we, as MEPs, are discussing each other. It is completely insignificant whether I am turning you around now and trying to have a political conversation with you – and I am of course not representing your opinion, but mine. You don't want to, because you don't want us to get in touch! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] If we can no longer contact each other by e-mail, and the Greens require us to contact only if we are also of the opinion of the Greens, otherwise we will be displayed, then we are exactly where you want to go! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You want a discussion to take place only as long as your opinion is not in any form. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] So if you are your opinion, then the discussion is of course all right. I always see the e-mails I get from the greens, which is not a problem. [[Calls and calls to FPÖ and Greens.]] But as soon as someone sends an e-mail that does not meet your opinion, the hardness of the law comes, and then a law is applied that was originally not made to prevent such a thing – for that is not a spam! Mr Brosz, you cannot believe all serious that an e-mail from a Member – no matter what group, whether fractional or not – to another with a request to read something that is highly political – this blog is highly political, you don't have to share it, you don't have to find it well, but it's highly political – that if one recommends... [[Abg. Korun: Wrong!]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Now your speech becomes a spam!]] [[Further calls.]] – I hope you understand that I represent my opinion here and not yours. Do you understand that? Thank you. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That's why: If someone asks someone else to enter a political discourse, even if he only asks him to read something that is not his opinion, then that is the substance of our work. If that doesn't suit you, They are still throwing the whole thing into the mess, like the thousands of other emails, which are also constantly sent to us by their citizens' initiatives. I have never complained before when 100, 150 emails from any greens and greens are released on us. This is simply deleted, for which there is a parliamentary employee. That's what we're gonna do! [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] But if it is a matter of political content that you do not like, then immediately the clause of the law will be unboxed or a law that has not been made for this subject. It was planned to prevent someone from sending spam to get an economic advantage from it, and not to stop the political exchange between MEPs. Unfortunately, this has been something that has come out as a collated damage at the end of the day, and that is why this law has been amended. Mr Brosz, I also saw you at the President-in-Office's Conference when we talked about it; there you were still clear. It would have been good for you if you had come out and apologized. That would have been fair. I know you don't make it from the greens, but that would have been what would have been appropriate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41908	For a second time, Mr. Dr. Franz has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41936	Madam President. High house! Mr Brosz, I have held your hand, and I have not said your name in particular. I held your hand to a peace conclusion. You didn't take that. On the contrary: You beat your hand. That demasks you and your world view to the very hardest. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] I don't wonder if you're perceived in public as green fascists.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e41977	Mr President, for the use of the term ‘Green Fascists’, I give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42004	All right, I'll take it! [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Then I'm just saying, green-totalitarian world view. This is precisely because you are making yourself here and attacking me and what I represent politically. You can discuss these things with me, but you don't have the courage to do that. You're secretly reading my blog, otherwise you won't be able to help yourself. [[General cheerfulness and continued applause with ÖVP, FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] They also print this out and read it here. So you can continue my blog, because “The Daily Franz” appears daily, even for you, freely accessible. I'll tell you something. You mis-quoted. My mail at the time was an invitation to join the blog, not an eye-catching press of the blog and content. You have chosen the content yourself, out of a lot of curiosity, what Mr Franz writes. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Obviously you read it every day and printed out the Gustopückerl. Thank you for advertising! That's going to be much more people reading than before – so far, it's 30,000 in two to three weeks – and even fewer people will vote for your group. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42061	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please. [[Oh-noise and restlessness in the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Lopatka lifts his hand.]] Mr Lopatka, I gave the floor to Mr Dr Pilz. I didn't see if you had reported before or after the word was given. I have the impression that it was after the word was given, but you will know better, Mr Klubobmann. Mr Pilz is now speaking, and there is obviously a debate on business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42110	Thank you once again for the kind welcome. I haven't read any French emails, I don't intend to read them. He's supposed to publish whatever he wants. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] It has already taken him from a political group, it will still bring him out of Parliament, but that is not my concern. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President, as well as the representatives of the Stronach team and of the Freedom Party, are you actually considering what you are saying here? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Unlike you already!]] This law applies to all citizens, only to a Member of Parliament, Franz, does it not apply? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Everyone has to comply with the law, only one Member of Parliament is standing on the law and condones a political group that says that Members also have to comply with applicable laws. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I think this is really remarkable, so let me keep going, Mr Franz, to mail and post what he wants. [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Unrest in the meeting room]] He is thus most damaging to himself and to his family members. I'll greet you. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Franz.]] If you want to change the law, please change it for all Austrians. For members of French and for national council presidents Hofer, do not desire any political privileges to be allowed to stand above the law. [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] You're not allowed to do that! Before the law, all are the same, including Deputies of Franz and President Hofer.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42227	Mr Klubobmann Lopatka wanted to talk about business, there is a word. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42249	Madam President. I would just have liked to know how it can be that if the Green speaking time is 0 minutes, then suddenly 2 minutes will come when Mr Mister Pilz speaks. How's technical?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42282	I now see no further mention of the Rules of Procedure. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] I ask whether there is still a point of order. – That doesn't seem like it. Mr Klubobmann, because, so to speak, it was a question to the Presidency: As you know and know, we have the time management on the screen here. In the speech time management on my screen, these 2 minutes of remaining speaking time were so registered. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Feichtinger.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: There too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, I can only tell you what I see here on the screen, but I can assure you that we will look at this in detail in the time management and time management. I have had a word message on my screen and a 2 minute remaining speaking time, and that is why I have also given the word. [[Abg. Lopatka lifts his hand.]] Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42343	Then I would like to have a review of how it is possible for you to stand for 2 minutes, while three colleagues have seen that it was on this screen for 0 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42370	Mr Klubobmann, I assured you that we were looking at this in detail, which was part of my remarks. I can only tell you that my speaking time administration did so. I will, of course, do this because we are very neat and strict in handling it. [[Abg. Arbitrators take his hand.]] . Now I have another speech on the business treatment of Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42394	I would only ask that such delicate issues of business treatment and also the management of speaking time not be left to the observation of employees, but, if we report on business treatment, we should also look at them. When I looked at that – to say it again, because everyone is wondering how long this debate in itself is not optimal – it was indicated that there is still talk time for the Greens. [[Call the SPÖ:And it's still...!]] – According to all our phones, it is still one, so I would like to congratulate you on your presidency, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42429	To say it again: It is clear what rules we have here in the House and what the Rules of Procedure give us. We clearly decide on speaking time for all political groups. [[Abg. Stefan: How's that going?]] The Parliamentary Directorate also manages them with care. In addition, there is still a time left for the debate today for the Green Group of 1 minute, but we will consider this in detail. [[Abg. Stefan: 1 minute 35!]] It is clear that the time has been decided on. I also manage this – as is the case with the Second and Third Presidents of the House – very penetrating. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] That is what we are back in the debate. The next item is the report by Mr Rosenkranz, with a two-minute voluntary speaking time limit at a remaining speaking time of his group of 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42483	Madam President. Your current announcement of time is also in line with that of our folder, so we do not expect any more debate on business treatment. I am actually grateful, whether or not Mr Pilz is allowed time. I'm glad he made his statement here, because he's been talking about political privileges that exist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr Pilz, you are the super-privileged one here in this House to all the citizens who have been trying for years to finally show you on a criminal and administrative way, what is and what is not true of what you give of yourself here or elsewhere under the protection of political immunity. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, ÖVP and Team Stronach]] Mrs Glawischnig has realized that you must lose this immunity very soon, and then finally these citizens come to their right to your privileges.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42529	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1363 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Telecommunications Office for Vienna, Niederösterreich and Burgenland, BMVIT-631,540/0423-III/FBW/2016, for approval of the persecution of the deputies to the National Council Dr. Marcus Franzwegen of the suspicion of a breach of administration pursuant to §§ 107 para. 2 and 109 para. 3 Z 20 Telecommunications Act 2003 is governed by Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the alleged criminal act and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Dr. Marcus Franzbe; an official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Marcus Franz is not approved.” I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:12:15]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42590	I would like to make a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 4, 11 to 17, 20 and 21 and 28 to 44 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol. Agenda item 1: There is a desire for separate vote. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1429, will be adopted in a separate vote by a different majority in second reading and by a majority in third reading. Agenda item 2: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1430, will be adopted by a majority of votes in the second and third readings. Agenda item 3: Mr Neubauer, fellow Members, tabled the amendment. The amendment is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1431, is adopted by a majority change in the second reading and a majority in third reading. Agenda item 4: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1432, will be adopted by a majority of votes in the second and third readings. Agenda item 11: Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Dr Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment. The amendment is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1439, will be adopted by a majority of votes in the second and third readings. Agenda item 12: There is a desire for separate vote. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1447, will be adopted in a separate vote by a different majority in second reading and by a majority in third reading. Agenda item 13: The draft law will be adopted unanimously in the second and third readings in 1440 in accordance with the Committee's proposal. Agenda item 14: The draft law is adopted unanimously in 1441 of the second and third reading supplements in accordance with the Committee's proposal. Agenda item 15: There is a desire for separate vote. Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, put the amendment to Supplement 15/1. Deputies Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen, add the amendment to Supplement 15/2. The amendment Annex 15/2 is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1442, is adopted by a majority vote, taking into account the amendment amendment to Supplement 15/1 and at second reading. Agenda item 16: There is a desire for separate vote. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1443, will be adopted unanimously, in a separate vote in the second reading, in part by a majority vote and at a third reading. Agenda item 17: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1444, will be adopted by a majority of votes in the second and third readings. Agenda item 20: Mr Muchitsch, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, I should like to make the amendment. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1448, will be adopted in part unanimously, partly by a majority vote and by a majority in the third reading, taking into account the amendment proposal. Agenda item 21: The conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG is approved by a majority in 1449 of the supplements in accordance with the Committee's request. Agenda item 28: Deputies Ing. May. Groiß, Krainer, colleagues and others are tabling the amendment. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1393, will be adopted by a majority vote, taking into account the amendment proposal at second and third readings. Agenda item 29: The conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG is approved by a majority in 1394 of the supplements in accordance with the Committee's request. Agenda item 30: There is a desire for separate vote. Deputies Ing. May. Groiß, Krainer, colleagues and others are tabling the amendment. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1392, will be adopted by a majority vote in separate votes, taking into account the amendment's amendment at second reading and at third reading. Agenda item 31: Member of the MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 31/1. Deputies Ing. May. Mr Groiß, Mr Krainer, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 31/2. The amendment Annex 31/1 is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1391 of the Supplements, will be adopted by a majority of votes in second reading, taking account of the amendment amendment. Agenda item 32: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1395, will be adopted by a majority of votes in the second and third readings. Agenda item 33: The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee's request, in 1396 of the Supplements within the meaning of the Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG approved unanimously. Agenda item 34: The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee's request, in 1397 of the Supplements within the meaning of the Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG approved by a majority vote. Agenda item 35: The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee's request, in 1398 of the Supplements within the meaning of the Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG approved by a majority vote. Agenda item 36: The conclusion of the State Treaty and the Protocol shall be, in accordance with the Committee's request, in 1399 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG approved unanimously. Agenda item 37: The draft law will be adopted unanimously at second and third reading in 1403 in accordance with the Committee's proposal. Agenda item 38: The conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG is approved by a majority in 1407 of the supplements in accordance with the Committee's request. Agenda item 39: Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Dr. Mr Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1404 of the Supplements, will be adopted unanimously and unanimously at second reading, taking into account the amendment proposal. Agenda item 40: The draft law will be adopted unanimously in the second and third readings in 1405 in accordance with the Committee's proposal. Agenda item 41: Deputies Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment. The amendment is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1406, will be adopted by a majority of votes in the second and third readings. Agenda item 42: Deputies Pendl, Mag. Dr Karl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment. The draft law will be adopted unanimously, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1368, taking into account the amendment proposal at second and third readings. Agenda item 43: The draft law is adopted unanimously in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1369 of the second and third reading supplements. Agenda item 44: The draft law will be adopted unanimously, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1401, in the second and third readings. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 delegates to read the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 4, 11 to 17, 20 and 21 and 28 to 44 before (Annex C). Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. [[General condolences.]] These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[18:21:24]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-12-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00158_d8e42808	I announce that in today's session the self-employed applications for 1938/A to 1960/A have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 6.21 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
