ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11747	A good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I will open the 113. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 111. Meeting of 27 and 28. ==References== Meeting of 28. Januaryes are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. The representatives of Gessl-Ranftl, Yılmaz, Rädler, Johannes Rauch, Hackl, Hauser and Lintl are reported to be prevented. I announce that the current hour will be transferred from ORF 2 to 10 a.m.; ORF III will forward this session live in full length. [[09:06:38]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11784	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Our pension system is scrapping – real solutions instead of false promises” The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Loacker. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11811	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Good morning, High House! Good morning, valued spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! “Our pension system is scrapping,” we say NEOS, and the Federal Minister counters: The pensions are safe! I have also read in press releases of the ÖVP that the pension system is safe, and some have said: Yes, do you have to formulate it so sharply?! - Yes, the pension system is scrapped. Why do we come to this conclusion? The thing's scraped, we're driving the car to the wall. The SPÖ might want to pump into the tires of this marod car a little more air, the ÖVP goes a little further and wants to switch a headlight, but with this vehicle we don't get far anymore. However, this is not what the NEOS says, for example, in its country report of December 2015. He called for a link between the retirement age and the growing life expectancy, and he demanded that the age of women's retirement be aligned to that of men. – What the International Monetary Fund says, however, this Federal Government does not care. In the context of the European Semester of the Republic of Austria, the EU Commission has said that it would be necessary to link the retirement age to the rising life expectancy and to align the age of women's retirement to that of men, as we are far behind in the European comparison. OECD expert Monika Queisser said that it was a social question whether Austria wanted to raise such high expenditure on younger generations. So the OECD says: This system is at the expense of younger generations! The OECD also calls for a link between the actual retirement age and the rise in life expectancy and an approximation of the age of women's retirement to that of men. – All of this is not happening right now. When Minister of Finance Schelling was relatively fresh in office, he announced that we were making a pension summit and would be on 29. In February 2016, a pension reform was announced. The hope was great that the Federal Minister would also bring something to light and promote results, but then it took a little time. [[Unrest in the hall.]] The working group to work on a pension reform was set up on 9 June. Founded on February 20, 20 days before the presentation of the reform. – Anyone who understands a little bit about the pension system can imagine that there is nothing reasonable to negotiate in these 20 days. [[Abg. Stroll: (in the direction of ÖVP and FPÖ) Pscht!]] What do we know today about the pension reform, what do we know today about what we are doing on 29 October? Will it be presented on February? We know above all what is not coming. ÖVP-Klubobmann Lopatka has been sent to the media, the ÖBB-pensions look bad, Klubobmann Schieder has knobbed, but it is very bad with the farmers and the tradesmen, and Finance Minister Schelling has let him know that he would like to change a little bit in the pension account. – One based the red half of the empire, the other the black and financial minister Schelling the person group, which already has the worst pension system of all, namely those who are covered by the pension account. What does not come is a harmonisation of pension systems. At this mutual playing out of interest groups alone you can see how necessary it would be to harmonise the various pension systems. There will also be no increase in the age of women's retirement to that of men, which will then come from 2024 to 2034. ÖVP Social Spokesman Wöginger has sent the media five days ago that the ÖVP has taken this from its own agenda. There's also no pension automatic. ==References== Mr Schelling, Minister of Finance, stated in the Ö1 “Morgenjournal” that it would require automatic retirement. After that, the ÖVP-internal wax tree should have been properly shaken, because in the "Mitagsjournal" it has already said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian]] Well, not an automatic one, it needs some kind of mechanics, but it must already have the last word in politics! Yeah, what's going on on on the 29th. February, if all of this doesn't come? – At the rehabilitation fee, we will do a little bit about it! Please, this is a pension system, which now provides 2.3 million and in the future 3 million citizens and will secure them a living, and you will adjust a little in the rehabilitation money that concerns 18,000 people?- Oh, my God! You leave the big job outside because you can't agree on anything. When ÖVP came to the government soon 30 years ago, the federal grant to social security pensions was 34 billion schilling, 2.5 billion € – 2.5! – In 1995 it was €3.8 billion and last year it was €10.2 billion. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rossmann.]] If you look at this a little bit, you can see that it's hyperbolic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] People are now on average 24 years in retirement, ten years longer than you came to the government without even working a little longer. And now the Minister of State is being held against – and, as I hear, also from among the ÖVPs –: Yes, but as a percentage of gross domestic product it hardly changes anyway! - Yes, heaven, rule! We do not pay pensions from gross domestic product. You do not have the gross domestic product on the wallet. [[Abg. Rossmann: Of course we pay...!]] We pay the subsidy to the pensions from what is available to taxpayers. If the Federal Budget accounts for €75 billion and of which €20 billion in pensions – 11 billion in social security pensions and 9 billion in civil servants’ pensions – then a huge lump is gone, as it does not benefit from how high GDP is. [[Abg. Brosz:... but we can still count in Schilling...!]] There's a lot of security going on, and it's going to be juggled with wrong numbers! I know, Mr Rossmann, that working-chamber mathematics is another, but mathematics, which is internationally recognized, looks different. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schopf and Mr Schwentner.]] Every year we throw 20 billion € into the pension system, trend strongly rising, every year a hypo alpe-Adria – every year a hypo! – and there is nothing happening because the gentlemen and ladies on the government bank are afraid – but what exactly? [[Abg. Brosz: Who... the money?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rossmann and Mr Schwentner]] – Before their own constituencies, the pensioners, because they do not manage to transport with their party apparatus, with their hundreds of thousands of members, that in a pension reform the pensioners are not at all affected – they already have their sheep in the dry – because they do not manage to communicate to the population that it takes at least ten years for a pension reform to work. At the pace at which you work, red and black, it takes 40 years – see adjustment of the retirement age –; no one really needs to be afraid of the pace of change, but you do not do anything to watch you. [[Abg. Brosz: What do you want?]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] If today half of the thirty-year-olds no longer believe that she gets a pension from the state system, then we have a problem, namely a problem of de-olidarization. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] What we need is a system that is still balanced and maintained for the next 30, 40, 50 years. The blockade of red and black is the best proof that we need a pension automaticism that works outside of the political daily business in which this system becomes perplexed without you fighting for political small money in the political bazaar and for months. A better proof than what you have provided in the last few weeks, there is no reason that pension automation is urgently needed. And if I see you playing the ÖBBlers against the traders, against the farmers, then I have to say that is the best proof of the need for harmonisation of pension systems. You don't do it because you're afraid, but you're not afraid of a group: of the boys. They carry out their fights on the back of the boys and wait for reforms. - That's irresponsible. Mr Minister, you have to go to Mr Knittelfelder of the “Small Newspaper”, the She asked: When will I retire? – Mr. Knittelfelder is 24 years old – said: 65. Until he is 65, life expectancy is expected to rise by eight years, and then you're suggesting to the people that we don't spend anything in additional working time of these eight years?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Arbitrators: But not his.]] You don't have to be a national host in order to realize that the mathematical does not go out, just a little bit of the sense of the house and knowledge of the basic rules of mathematics would be necessary – but this is unfortunately not what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11978	Mr Stöger spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11999	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! Dear NEOS, you're disappointing me today! [[Oh, no, no, no,]] I found an article from 1959. ==References== March 1959 – two years ago, the pension system was already in force in Austria – it was said the same as what you said today – I read before: [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Weninger and Mr Lugar]] The number of pensioners grows from year to year. This is due on the one hand to the fact that medical and social progress has succeeded in increasing life expectancy. However, this not only raises a problem as to how the evening of life can be designed, but it also raises the question of how social security can be achieved by its means. - Quote. That was 1959, since the same Serbian was already brought into the public discussion. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Weninger and Mr Keck]] I thank all the governments since 1959, the social partners, but also the Austrians! They have proven since 1957 how to maintain a pension system, make annual adjustments and make it possible to ensure that 2.5 million people in Austria are insured in old age. [[Call:59]] [[Abg. Stroll: That they every year...!]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] We in Austria have managed to prevent poverty in old age, which is a benefit for the Austrian population. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I say this very clearly: Yes, I have said that 6 percent of GDP is an amount that we must afford to the elderly – and I also say: will be done – because 6 percent of GDP is used for a quarter of the population, in order to prevent poverty in old age, which is an important measure. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This is an important measure that should be consciously communicated to the boys. Dear NEOS, don't call you NEOS, call you Oldies when you come with such a policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You are insecure people – and I say so quite consciously – you are insecure the boys, because history has taught us that we have been doing well with the Austrian pension system since 1957. [[Abg. Stroll: Pump! Built on debt!]] [[Call to the Greens: This is a fool!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Fact numbers...!]] And now to the facts: We are on an excellent path at the pensions. The retirement age has increased, it is currently at an average of 60,2 years – we wanted to reach 60,1 years for 2018. And I can also tell you that the costs for I-pensions and reha money are also going back together in Austria. That is to say, the Minister of Finance has also publicly demonstrated, the expenses for pensions in the ASVG area are well below expectations and are falling. Now I can tell you something about the federal grant – I think it is important to say that to the people as well clearly and clearly –: 60 years ago it was agreed that pensions should be paid to a third of the workers, to a third of the entrepreneurs and the third third of the state. [[Abg. Loacker: Where does this third stand? It's a legend, it's nowhere! This third is nowhere, that's not true!]] This was the challenge for the introduction of pensions in 1955, and at that time it was planned. However, the State has never had to make this contribution. I say quite clearly: Most ASVG insurers pay their own pension. That means the pensions are secured. And I can tell you quite clearly that we want to strengthen this charging process, because only one charging procedure is able to provide stability even in the crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] I would like to read to you the letters I have written to people who have relied on a capitalised pension system. These people have not received any pension increases in the crisis, on the contrary, there have been pension reductions for them. This stabilising factor has not worked for them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a pension system that focuses on the needs of the population needs a lot. It needs people who are constantly looking at it and are constantly ready to adapt it to the given situations. We have been doing this all the time since 1955, and our pension system is safe. [[Call at the FPÖ: Who is “we”?]] The second thing we need to finance pensions is a high level of employment. The labour market is crucial here. If many people with their “real” contributions pay into the pension system, then the pension system is safe. And one point that is also very crucial: We must ensure that people reach the statutory retirement age in good health. That is why we will give very special space to this issue at the current pension summit. If we succeed in ensuring that people are healthy in retirement, we can also afford our pensions in the long term. Let me tell you again: Don't worry about people! The Austrian pension system is then certain if people do not play games here if we have responsible politicians who know how important it is to prevent poverty in old age and who contribute to the creation of a solidarity system throughout society. Then our pensions are safe. The Austrian pensions have been very safe for 60 years, and we provide more than a quarter of the population with their income per month. – So: The evidence teaches you the opposite!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12170	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the Rules of Procedure, all other participants in the current hour have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Mag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12196	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of pensions is constantly being taken up for the debate by artificially aggregated figures, such as uncertainty. I consider this to be not only unreasonable, but also dangerous, when it comes to a system which concerns both those in work today and the question of how we will finance their age life, as well as today's 2.3 million pensioners. That is why I am in favour of not having a slender step or an uncertainty, but rather of having a very factual discourse about the real state. The Federal Minister mentioned that 6 percent of the gross domestic product is spent as grants. However, it is not possible to make the call, unless everything is on pump, but one also has to ask the question – by the way, in the ASVG it is even less, because that is expected of all systems; the ASVG-pensionists need for themselves, although they are the vast majority, a much smaller contribution – for which these grants are used, namely for those benefits that are paid for in the pension system that society wants from the pension system, namely replacement periods, child training times, military service times, all these things, but also the minimum pensions which are raised here and which, of course, are also provided by a tax contribution. [[Abg. Stroll: That's it!]] I hope that we have the consensus here that we all want minimum pensions and that the state has a responsibility here. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] In any case, we stand by this system because it prevents poverty of old. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Korun and Mr Strolz on the SPÖ and on the members of the ÖVP.]] The view of the figures also shows that no balding is necessary, but that it is necessary to develop the system with caution always reasonable. When we look at the figures, we see that Austria is stable, both in the short term and in the long term. And that's, I think, the two decisive parameters. The actual retirement age has risen by half a year. We are above the plan that the government has also made in its government programme. In other words, the reforms that have been set up in recent years have been effective, have also been effective in the statistics and can thus be demonstrated. The actual retirement age is now 60,2 years. That was actually the goal that we had set ourselves for 2018, but already achieved in 2016. On the individual proposals that are always around here: Pension automatic. My answer to pension automatic is: We need work instead of fear in the system, because an automatic one that aims solely at life expectancy is both economic and justifiable. Let's look at the numbers: More than 20 per cent of pension applications are made up of unemployment, 11 per cent of sickness benefit, i.e. from the sick. We see that we have a problem on the labour market, namely on the labour market for older people, to stay in employment longer. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who do we owe this to? The SPÖ!]] That is, if you want the retirement age to rise further, it is necessary to counter labour market policy, to link packages for older people, to look at the labour market, with bonus malus system, and all these measures that the elderly continue to have a job. As long as they do not have a job, it is cynical and unfair to speak of a primitive increase in the retirement age in the legal field. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the age of women's retirement – because the second favourite theme is that you say you have to do the increase in the age of women's retirement –: In this respect, we have an agreement, which is also broadly guaranteed here, to gradually increase the age of women's retirement from 2024 to 2033. There is no reason nor statistical evidence to make it earlier, because, quite the contrary, the incentive system is already working today. Women today are already in retirement for what their statutory retirement age is. I therefore do not understand the view of NEOS, because if the behaviour of people is better than the legal framework, then I will not worsen and change the legal framework conditions now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two last points: Pension account – because it has been said recently that something has to be changed there –: We have created a pension account, five million insured persons have also received their initial credits, now know how the pension system works. And now, in the increase rate, something to change, to make a subsequent reduction in pensions, as some proposals were, namely that the increase amounts should be changed from the average wage increase to inflation, which would be a reduction in the pension by the back door that we will certainly not agree to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] More importantly, I conclude, Madam President, that our pension system is safe, that age poverty prevents us from working, but that we need to step up our contribution justice, so that all insured persons, ASVG, farmers as well as traders, will have a similar amount of self- cover in the future, as the ASVG insurers already have today, who pay 85 percent, even almost 90 percent of the pension themselves. The other cash registers have much lower contributions, which must change.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12296	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12318	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker, our pension system is not scrapping, you know. You have even admitted, in the context of a discussion in Vorarlberg with your ÖGB President, who is also called Loacker, that this formulation is overrun. [[Oh, call at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We need action, that's something else. We need action because our system lacks sustainability, but the pension system is not scrapped! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to briefly explain why we believe from the ÖVP that, although our pension system is short-term – we also confess to the payment process – we have a need for action in this area for the future and, above all, for the future generations. And there are two very good facts and foundations for that. First: Let us see how the factors of training have developed, the years of work and the years of retirement! 40 years ago, people were on average eight years old in retirement. An average worker had 45 years of work, and 17 years of training. Today it looks like: People are over 20 years in education, have 38 years of work and are on average 22 years in retirement; we are now at 24 years of age. That is the first factor why we say it needs sustainability in the system. And the second is: It is as it is, it is also due to the demographic situation in Austria. The generation of baby boomers, these are those people who were born at the end of the fifties until the end of the 1960s – this is the majority of the population; in the population pyramid one can also very well represent and see it – comes into pensionable age in ten years. That means that our system is then subjected to a certain load test. And that is why we say about the ÖVP that we want to prepare the system for this time and secure it in this regard in a sustainable way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Neos, Mr Loacker, you stand out here and say: Nothing ever happened! The ÖVP has been ruling for 30 years, and there has never been anything happening! . I recall the 2003/2004 reform when significant milestones were set in the pension system. In recent years, there has also been a number of events: We have jointly implemented the pension account to which we also confess ourselves. We have made changes to the long-term insurance scheme, including the corridor board, to bring the actual retirement age to the legal base. This is the main point in the pension system: We need to introduce the actual retirement age to the legal person! In this context, the government has taken a number of measures in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also introduced the sub-pension since 1. It's in power for January. Last but not least, I would like to mention that we jointly implemented the results of the labour market and economic summit in December, where essential measures have also been put in place for the employment of older people. This is also important to us, ladies and gentlemen: It is also about keeping people in employment, because otherwise we do not need to talk about the change in the pension system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Where do we see the need for action from the People's Party? . We address this quite openly, and I am also grateful, Mr Federal Minister, if we also deal with it objectively and not only let the emotions play. Let's just look at how our system is built: We need action at disability pensions, especially when it comes to mental illness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] No one in Austria can explain why there are almost twice as many applications for entry in the field of mental diseases in Styria as in other federal states. We need action in the field of professional rehabilitation. Mr Katzian, both of us will have to talk about this area, because it simply does not work well enough. We need to take care of the people so that they come with and in their job until the retirement age. This is a question of preventive measures, and it is a matter of looking at them, not of looking away. Vocational rehabilitation is in need of reform. We need to create a system that allows us to reunite after longer diseases, for example after cancers. It is about the people, ladies and gentlemen, and we must accompany them! At the beginning only part-time work is possible. And we should create the basis for this in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are also concerned with justice in the system. Mr. Federal Minister, you can't do that, and we can't regulate it here – the people often don't know that – but I address this to the red-green government in Vienna: Vienna is not harmonised until the year 2042. We, the other federal states, are not the Kasperls of the nation! We have implemented this, and this is what we expect from Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, namely to finally implement harmonisation in Vienna. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And we stand for a mechanism of justice, a mechanism of justice that takes into account the generations to come, ladies and gentlemen. This is a concern of the People's Party. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Finally, to the Pension Commission, I only say: Chairs out, experts in!, then we will also establish this mechanism.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12451	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12472	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Wöginger, you have given a good word, namely the city of Vienna. To be honest, I say to you, be a little careful if you ask for this harmonisation, because that could be misunderstood in Vienna. We are currently in the following situation: We have a pension system, which is not as great as Mr Schieder said, but also not as rotten as the Neos. I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. There are, of course, problems in the pension system, but many of them are homemade, and many problems are still facing us. Mr Federal Minister, you know exactly – for weeks we have been drawing attention to this! – that you Your predecessor is still there. By signing a contract with Bank Austria, i.e. the UniCredit – an Italian banking institution – that 3,000 former Central Savings Workers should be transferred to the ASVG. This would mean for these employees that they get much lower pensions, but – and now the Crux comes to the story – the taxpayer would cost about €800 million. And there's the question: Why do you do such a thing? What can be the background for this? – The only beneficial player is obviously an Italian bank, the UniCredit, which saves itself after a profit of €1.9 billion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you could say: Well, maybe it was a mistake of Mr. Hundstorfer! We know that Mr Hundstorfer is particularly vulnerable when it comes to socialist banks. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] He already did it at the Bawag, because he signed a change back then and believed it was the list of presences. I'm worried about you. If Mr Hundstorfer is to become President of the Federal Republic, he may then really be signing a list of presences, and the laws cannot enter into force. [[Call the FPÖ: He'll never be!]] - So much for my colleague, Hundstorfer. If you look at this story a little more closely, then you come up with it: There is a second benefit besides the Italian bank, and that is the city of Vienna, which will now save itself the liabilities here. On the one hand, the AVZ, the AVZ could become the liability, would not pay any more, because the 1.7 billion that the AVZ had a few years ago were reduced to € 60 million. For all non-winners: The AVZ is the foundation that was created so to speak when the Central Savings Bank was sold and which was held liable for the staff. That is to say, the city of Vienna could or can now out of its balance sheet virtually € 1.9 billion. With this, the Finance Councillor can stand up with a fresh balance sheet and say: I saved up! - Oh, that's great! But – and now history continues – that's not the only thing the city of Vienna does – and now I'm coming back to you, colleague Wöginger, and to see why you need to be careful: What does the city of Vienna still do? – The city of Vienna shifts high magistrates, who are just ahead of the pension, from the magistrate to the outsourced area of Vienna Energy. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, will eventually be hanged around the ASVG. Because that's just the first step, that's just once the central savings bank people – and then it'll continue. And it's quite striking, Mr. Muchich: You haven't made a single statement on this deal to this day. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] Obviously, here red and green – even from the Greens, not a single word message has come – have decided that they jointly reorganise the Vienna budget at the expense of taxpayers from all over Austria. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you agree: How do you explain to your taxpayers in Vorarlberg that they have to pay for the Vienna mismanagement? How do you explain to your taxpayers in Tyrol that they have to save the Vienna budget with their tax contributions? – That’s unfair what happens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Sozialminister, you are negotiating in the background, behind closed doors, without informing us. According to media reports, Bank Austria is already planning to create facts: ==References== In March, the PVA is simply paid in, although there is no alleged agreement at all at all. – This cannot work in a rule of law unless the negotiations are already very advanced. One thing is clear: Bank Austria already has 31 for nothing. In December, the reserves for pensions were dissolved and, so to speak, the debt was reduced. That means: At this deal the only winners are the city of Vienna and an Italian banking institution! Losing is the public, losers are the taxpayers! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] Mr Federal Minister, we will pay very close attention to how you will act now and what will come further, to how many pensioners, how many magistrates would like to move the city of Vienna further to the ASVG, in order to make all Austrian taxpayers pay for the fact that the state government of Vienna can then stand and say: We have renovated our budget wonderfully! This will not work, I guarantee you, Minister of State! And there you are required.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12537	Next speaker: Ms. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12560	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, In contrast to some in the House, and in particular, I think I am with the Members of the NEOS Group, we believe that it is a central task of a modern social state to ensure security of old age and to guarantee that it is also guaranteed by means of taxation. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Its programme, in short and concise summary, basically means: I'm sorry, oldies! I'm sorry Youngsters!, because I don't know what to do about it, just explaining to the young people: Get some information about the latest financial products on the financial market, but pension from the state will certainly not get you! [[Abg. That's stupid!]] And then, as said by colleagues Niko Alm in the “ZiB 2” to the question “Where do you see savings potentials?”: We pay € 10 billion per year to the pensions, I see that there is savings potential here! That's clear! They are against taxeuros as far as pension security is concerned. That doesn't even represent Donald Trump, I think. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What are we talking about? Meanwhile, 50 percent of all pension payments are below € 950 per month. It is even worse for women, the average pension for women is €858. The average pension for all pensioners is €1,063. I wonder what you really want to cut or reduce. Let us think about how, above all, we are preventing poverty in old age, and simply try to close the gaps that exist! That is, I think, the core task. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A quarter of all single pensioners are at risk of poverty, and we do not need to be proud of that. On the contrary: It is obvious that tax resources are distributed ineffectively or unfairly. When you think about the women's pension question over and over again, I have to say: You ignore one of the most dramatic labour market situations in the Second Republic, if you are constantly thinking about it and are constantly putting pressure on it! In 2024 we could have a single pension system, which is also our proposal. And we also believe that there should be something like a base, a basic pension for all. Young people now have quite different employment biographies than they do in older people. There are a lot of breaks, many start with precarious jobs or with project work, are once independent, for a time unemployed. In the meantime, many people from different groups have been affected by unemployment. From the cradle to the Bahre to have a fixed job, that's all there is no longer. And we simply have to react to this with a modern pension system quite different from what is now the case. That is why a basic pension for all tax-financed contributions imposed on them. I also believe that the tax subsidisation of private pensions should be discontinued. This could also save us a lot. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So work is enough. In terms such as “screw tire” and “driving to the wall, ” I ask myself the question of what this has to do with ankle fit. This only makes one, namely, only fear. Let us be reasonable about the gaps we now have to close! Let us understand the goals, that we want to secure existence in old age! It is the central task of the state to guarantee social security, and I am now talking not only about security in old age, but also about issues such as care, mobility, childcare and also education, namely social infrastructure. In addition, we also collect taxes for this purpose. If you think that tax contributions should be reduced, that you should not pay taxeuros to pensions, I wonder what you really want to do with this mass poverty programme in Austria. I'm sure this isn't grandfit. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like more emphasis to be placed on women in this pension system, on the injustices that women continue to have in working life, on the problem of childcare, that we still have no legal right to a childcare centre, that we still have a child allowance model that is extremely complicated, which, above all, does not favour father participation, but rather wants to prevent father participation. In this context, the new proposal by the Minister for Family Affairs should also be mentioned. We should also look at the pension system in particular. In particular, the women in Austria, the women who receive such low pensions, deserve much more support and clearly also more attention from Members of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12628	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12649	Bravo to the Group of the Socialists, not to the Minister of Social Affairs, but to the Minister of Expectation. [[clapping in your hands]] In recent years, they have really managed to reform the very least in the pension system. Bravo for nothing at all! If I can see what I heard earlier today in the “Morgenjournal”, namely that the retirement age has increased, and if exactly the figures you, Mr. Federal Minister, have already mentioned are brought up in December, I must say: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Every student who has perhaps already taken a course in scientific work will have noticed: Mhhh, maybe statistics don't exactly figure out what you want, so let's just take a number out and make it completely incomparable! If we consider that, of course, there are no more disability pensioners under 50 because they are going to reha now, the statistics will be better than before. This is not an increase in the retirement age, it is trickery. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And that was also God’s thanks in media coverage today. So thank you for nothing! But what shocks me a little now is generally this attitude, Keynesianism for first-semester: It is not only about achieving something if we are good, but also about spending it when it is bad for us, because it increases consumption. We put all the money in our hands, and then the 80-year-olds walk into masses to Peek & Cloppenburg and begin to consume. – Only: We know it doesn't work that way! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] And of course, what you always forget in your worldview of Keynesianism is: What do we do if we're okay? Then what do we do? Did Austria ever save to reduce debt? – No, we have almost 300 billion debts in our country now! What does that mean for the next generation? What do we do with it? I just find it negligent what you are doing here, I find it irrational to the next generation. And this has to be addressed once again! They have a national economic policy that makes no sense in the front and in the back, it simply doesn't matter. From me, if you said, Well, we'll spend something if we have something, then you can argue. But then please also fulfill the other side of Keynesian politics, because maybe we would have it a little better then! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Haven't you heard of investing at the university?]] Invest: What exactly are we investing money in? - We invest in pensions. We pay €11 billion to the pension system. This means that if, for example, we add interest to the debt, we spend a third of our budget to stop holes. It must be made clear to you first that every year, if we rethink how we could spend our budget, how we could invest our tax resources, only two thirds are left to invest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] What does the next generation say? What does it say to the colleges who have too little money, the schools that have too little money? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] They stand out here, come with your beautiful numbers and try to check out a scrapped car, as we like to say, how sluggish used car sellers. This will not please the next generation! We don't want this scraped car anymore. We want a reform that is sustainable so that this pension system is still available for the next generations. By 2060, life expectancy is expected to increase by another nine years. We will have to finance this. And since I already believe that we have to increase the retirement age even now, not that we are standing in front of a sniper pile afterwards and then maybe, 2060, consider how we pay all this. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Six months!]] Mr Schieder, thank you for saying that it has now been raised a bit. But we still have a legal retirement age, which is far from true. And we don't want to talk about what happens in the next decades when life expectancy gets even higher. But let's just get to the topic of women! I always like to take that. You say you want to protect people from poverty. You say you want to secure her. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What do the women have of it? – They say: Thank you for nothing!, again because the average pension of a woman is 860 € in the statutory pension insurance. This is about the minimum guarantee. What can these women do with it? – Absolutely nothing! And what's that about? – Among other things, the lower retirement age. They take these women five years in which they could continue to earn. They take five years in which they could be transported. They'll take you five years in which they can continue their education. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] They take women's chances through the lower retirement age. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You take them insurance months and you take them pension contributions. These women then end up in poverty. As you, as social democrats, can stand here and talk about securing older people is incomprehensible. Then: Women are not insured in the pension in Austria. But you have done absolutely nothing in the last decades! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] We need solutions to ensure this pension system is sustainable. We want a pension system that is harmonised, where there is a pension automation, where we can see how much money is actually involved. We owe it to the next generation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12785	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12807	High house! I am now trying to bring a bit of materiality into the discussion. - We've heard a lot today. We have heard on one side: Yes, the pension system is safe! And we heard from the other side: No, the pension system is not safe! – Uniquely, both are right. It's actually both right. And to understand this, I'd like to do it a little bit, on the one hand: Yes, the pension system is safe, and it is then certain that we will simply pay more every year, under all circumstances, because we want to do so. We are already paying 10 billion from a wide range of sources, of course also from new debt to receive the pension system. If this figure, this 10 billion, is going to rise to 20, we'll just pay 20 billion in the system, and that's why the pension system is safe. This would be the same as for someone who does not care about his income because he deserves too little, with heating costs permanently rising. However, he does not see this as a problem, although in the foreseeable future the heating costs will probably represent a large part of his income, because he simply abandons the vacation because he simply saves at dinner and other expenses, perhaps with the children. That's why he doesn't see it as a problem. In this case one can say that the heating costs, which are most likely to double, are not a problem. But you could also see it from the other side and say: It is certainly a problem if what I used to spend, what I used to invest, is moving into an area that does not bring us any economics, namely, towards pensions! We have the problem that every year we make new debts that we have to repay sometime. We have the problem that in the important areas, especially in education, the money is so scarce that the Minister of Education, for her part, can no longer afford heating at all. We have a situation where we need to save at all corners and ends, because we have on the other hand a system that causes increasing costs. And that's the problem we're facing! It is not about taking away pensioners something, quite the contrary, they really deserve it, unlike other groups of people, but it is about preventing more and more people from going into retirement and overburdening the system. We have 750 000 additional pensioners in the next 20 years alone due to the baby boomer generation, and that will bring the system to a collapse. And that's... Why? – This can certainly be calculated by anyone who can operate a calculator. I ask everyone to take part. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Can you do that?]] At the moment, it is the case that two persons in employment – two persons in employment! – received a pensioner. That means, with what two employees of your The pensioners can still receive some subsidies from the budget, with additional debts, but this is the case. In the foreseeable future, a pensioner will come to an employed person. That means, not two more get one, but one has to get one. Now let's look at the numbers! On average, one worker has 28 000 € per year, gross, and a pensioner receives 18 000 € gross per year on average. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That's the cut, the Austrian cut. It is all current figures to read everything on the Statistics Austria page. That is, if an employee with 28 000 € gross must receive a pensioner with 18 000 € gross, then anyone who can use a pocket calculator can calculate that this is not going to happen! And that's the problem. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If it doesn't matter, then the question is, why do they say: It's safe! You're just saying, Then we increase taxes, then there is a machine charge, there we make even more debts, and then it will go out! My approach would be another one, that you motivate people to work longer. And if you watch the Federal Presidency election campaign, you see, there are professional fields where you can work up to 80. Why do we send officers to forced board if they want to work longer? Why do we push people out of working life into retirement if many would even work longer voluntarily? – That’s the problem! The explanation of this problem is quite simple: For example, the post office and the ÖBB use the pension system to save costs. That is, you push 52-, 53-year-olds into the early board with all kinds of tricks to relieve yourself and burden us all. And that's the problem! One more point at the end. [[The red lamb on the speaker's coil is already shining.]] Okay, I don't have time anymore, that's why: If we want to receive our pension system, we must not put the head in the sand as we have heard today, as we have heard it since 1959, because simply the costs rise and rise and rise, but we must keep people in work longer and prevent a pensioner from getting a pensioner at some point. It's got to work! We can't put our head in the sand.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12890	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12912	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Before addressing the issue of the current hour, I should like to say that I have just heard Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein that it is necessary to consult a deadline request for your request to the Bank Austria this afternoon. There we will still have the opportunity to exchange positions accordingly. Apart from that, there is also a corresponding parliamentary request from our Minister for Social Affairs. But more in the afternoon. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He did not take a position!]] Now at the current hour, on the current topic “Our pension system is scrapped,” introduced by NEOS. I would like to remind you – and I do not know if you saw the contribution in the “Report” yesterday: For decades, since we have had this state pension system, financed by a levy procedure and supported by federal subsidies, this pension system has been repeatedly called into question. [[Call the FPÖ:Not of all!]] – Not by all, but again and again by those who are in opposition and are trying to frighten them by insecurity. There is talk of pension clau and other measures which are the subject of allegations. I would like to tell you the following personal story: My father was a construction worker, and when I was 15 years old – that was in 1982 – it was once again the attack of the opposition that our pensions were not safe. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Who was the opposition?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: From what opposition?]] At the time I was 15, I was just about to take up a teaching profession, and my father said to me at the time – he was a construction worker and 42 years old –: Who knows if I still have a pension? And who knows if, now a young person 15 years old, you will still have a pension! - That was 1982. Now we write 2016, and we still have a secure pension system. [[Abg. Lugar: You have a union board, you don't need to worry!]] And now I'm telling you one thing: I have to thank our Social Minister, Alois Stöger, for taking the safeguarding of the pension system fairly! No matter who has assumed political responsibility in this country, the state pension system is still important and most secure. [[Abg. Lugar: I don't worry about you!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: (in the direction of Abg. Lugar) Such a fool! That's incredible...!]] But now only a few tables – I'm doing this for the first time, because it's important. [[As a result, the speaker illustrates his statements by showing the appropriate curve diagrams.]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Heinzl and Mr Lugar.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Mr Muchitsch is now being disturbed by his own colleague!]] – I have listened to everyone else, perhaps this is possible now. I didn't make any calls, maybe that's possible now. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That was the colleague Heinzl!]] Our pension system is therefore safe because we see very carefully – and these data are from the Pension Commission –: The corresponding grant of federal funds to our legally funded pension system varies from 2.5 to 3.5 percent of GDP. That was true in 1980, and it is now. There are measures we constantly need – and this has been done very well by our clubman Andreas Schieder. Our pensions are safe, but we also have to keep trying to develop this pension system. We have done so by means of these measures: The number of new retirement pensions has fallen, the number of invalidity pensions has fallen, the number of old-age pensions has increased – this has been the result. And the result of this is that by 2018 we will also create what we have agreed in this coalition, SPÖ and ÖVP, to increase the actual retirement age. Today, the report of pension monitoring has been published: We have increased the actual retirement age by six months within one year, we are currently at 60.2 years. [[Abg. Stroll: These are statistical tricks, you know!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] And to the last chart, one thing was quite clear: These figures are available in Brussels, these figures have been submitted by the Federal Ministry of Finance. Our pension costs, measured by the economic performance in this country, are constant until 2060, and we therefore also manage to guarantee here that there are safe pensions. Finally, to all the horror ghosts you always paint on the wall, a few remarks. On the issue of ‘Increasing the age of women’s pensions’: A woman today 47 years old will have to work up to 65 according to the increase in the age of women's retirement. A woman who is 52 years of age today knows that she will have to work longer than 60 due to this increase in the age of women's retirement. And I would also like to ask the following question: What do you want? You still take away a woman if she has a minimum pension of 882 € including compensation allowance? [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Lugar: You didn't understand!]] What do you want? You still take these women away? And a pension automatic system that leads even more older people to unemployment, which may then eventually get a pension from unemployment, is not our style and that is not what we will do from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] We're not there. Our pensions are safe. We are here when it comes to their further development. That's our line. Last sentence: At that time, in 1982, Kreisky said in the television news that my father was watching: Our pensions are safe, our pensions are in safe hands! And that is still true today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13121	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13142	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! It is said that if you want to ensure a secure future, you have to act forward-lookingly and responsibly. This applies to many areas: in companies, for everyone in person, in the family. If you do, you can also rely on a secure future, and that is crucial. This is what entrepreneurs, farmers, families, individuals who are responsible for themselves and who live by this principle: It secures its own future due to this precautions. It is therefore crucial to act here, and that is why we as a state – and I am firmly convinced of this – must also act forward-lookingly. It not only counts here and today or the headline, but it is about us thinking about the future. Our task is to ensure Austria's prosperity and its security – and also the safety of pensions – for a long time. Now there are some studies that have already been quoted today, but so uncritically we cannot accept them, but we also have to accept international studies. Look at that. If you look at the international studies, you can see – and this is particularly true – that the system is now in order, that we are now sure, but that, when we look into the future, we have problems with long-term finance – especially the boys and, of course, the subsequent generations, and these too should be our hearts. We are therefore at the very back of sustainability in international studies, and sustainability concerns, and in itself, the financial viability of the system. So if we want to ensure the financing of the system, we also need to put in place the right measures; I think that's why we already have to see that pension systems are sustainablely secured in the years 2030, 204, 2050 and 2060. Other countries have already presented some examples here, for example Denmark. Denmark has linked the pension system to life expectancy and has developed a good private pension model. We should also keep in mind the private provision, because private care is very important for people who have their own responsibility, who want to do something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Danish social system is still exemplary today, ladies and gentlemen. Other countries with high social standards such as Sweden or Finland have also made their systems fit in the long term by means of safeguards, and we must do so too. It's not about taking away someone, it's not about shortening something, it's about securing the people who come into employment today, whether it's an apprentice, a young businessman, or whether it's an employee, so that they can get a pension in 40 years, too. Therefore, if we want to maintain the usual standards and have to grant social security even in old age, it is so important that we take action. Our social spokesperson August Wöginger has already mentioned this, things like a generation-justice mechanism or, for example, the adaptation of the disability pension. In this regard, we need action on mental diseases, we know that, and we have to do so, because if we do nothing, then we will really get there that in 2060 – and we know that – an employed person has to school or receive a pensioner. We have to start early on that this system will also remain manageable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] New employment models, new life models need also changed models as regards the protection of pensions. And, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at this, we have to act now. I firmly believe that we are still living in a welfare state in Austria. We are still one of the richest countries in the world. We are also internationally envied for our social system. We can still be proud of this, but we must not rest on it, and therefore I am of the firm conviction that it is without cuts – we do not want to take away anything, I stress – but it is about securing the system in the long term, and it is about our acting now in order to make the future safe.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13222	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13245	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, that this debate is taking place in this form today, you are not insignificantly responsible for this, for one thing has to be said: Today and here we will not be the saviors of pensions for the future, because today a debate is taking place on the basis of a wide range of demands from various bodies and politicians of the past few weeks. All of this is happening here today as a debate. But one thing, Mr. Federal Minister, you cannot deny and reject: that you are responsible for this because on 29 October, you are not responsible for it. A pension summit will take place on February, to which you have not even invited the Austrian senior pension organisations represented in the Council of Seniors. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the case that these organizations and the Senior Council have some kind of social status in this country and you don't invite them to do so, then it's an blatant affront. It's supposed to be written to you in the main book! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, self-proclaimed pension experts will be sent to the Austrian population in permanent sections, which will permanently give the Austrian population some horrors for the best, such as the increase in the age of women’s retirement, without any reference to where the necessary jobs are to be at all, a automatic pension scheme is proposed, without pointing out that there are very different legal conditions in Sweden, and by Mr Finanzminister Schelling, the burden of the pension account is proposed, which, according to the Social Ministry’s calculations, would mean a loss of pensions by a quarter. You, too, Mr Federal Minister, have not spoken out to this day. With us, there will certainly not be an agreement on such a proposal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This can only mean – and this has already been said by Mr Muchitsch as my previous speaker – that pensions are guaranteed by 2060 when there is a secure and good labour market in Austria in parallel. Only, ladies and gentlemen, this labour market has been more than in danger for years now. The statements of the President of the Chamber of Economics, Mr Leitel, also say that we are more and more sending down, and only yesterday did he say again that we are still more sent down. That is, the Federal Government has completely overlooked actually understanding what the opening of the East means, for example. Federal Minister Hundstorfer then spoke Lapidar of 5,000 who would come – 50 000 have come in the meantime, and at the same time the generation 55+ is about 30 percent unemployed in us. This is something that the Federal Government has to answer. And please do not come to me by saying that the European Union and the legal bases would speak against it. Over the last one and a half years, the European Union has put everything out of place and has overcome all the rules and laws that you do not need to come up with these arguments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Rather, it is the unbridled and uncontrolled mass immigration, which is likely to be facing major problems in Austria at the moment, and this great immigration is, of course, also seriously affecting the pension system. [[Abg. Schwentner: Thank God you're making the swivel!]] The costs of this immigration, which was tolerated by the Federal Government, when all were wont, must be paid by pensioners and young people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] While there are 25 million missing compensation beneficiaries, we have to deal with billions now – that is probably the reality. In addition, there is a social tourism, as it has never been in Austria. We are talking about quotas to be fulfilled in all the federal states, and there is currently a social tourism, where people only migrate more from one federal country to another, so that they can get more money there or there than in the other. I can quote an article from yesterday's 'Salzburger Nachrichten'. It says: “The refugee” – with asylum status – was “preliminary when visiting Vienna, what it meant financially when he and his wife and the soon four children (the woman is pregnant with twins) from the mountains to the federal capital” – Vienna – “translated: 25.600 Euro Minimum annual security (per adult 620 Euro, per child 223 Euro), 3725 Euro for housing needs, 6800 Euro Family aid, and “various deposits”. All in all, this amounts to around 36,000 euros a year. The man returned to his mentor’ – by the way in this house – “the back, quit and moved to Vienna. He now has no more jobs, but more money” – namely, €36 000. [[Abg. Lopatka: We need to change that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These people write this daily via SMS and e-mail to their relatives and relatives and say: Come to Austria, here we are in Schlaraffenland! For nothing we get 3 000 € per month here! – Tell me, please, the Austrian workers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] This is what pushes the pension system into the abyss, not the cheap donations that have come here today. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It's got to stop! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] When we liberals then said we want uniform guidelines in Austria, they laughed at us; now we have this social tourism in Austria. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] As long as this is the case and as long as the implementation of the Court of Auditors' proposals on the 2008 pension system is not complete, we will no longer take part in this debate in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13350	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke again. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13371	Madam President. High house! It is important for me to point out one thing. – Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein has referred to Bank Austria as a contract between my predecessor and the Ministry of Social Affairs in the area of Bank Austria. I'm going to abdicate this: It's not a contract, it's done nothing. [[Deputies Belakovich-Jenewein and Neubauer:Sondern?]] On the contrary, you know that, I have expressed myself very clearly in the Federal Council. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, you didn't say you said that was data protection! I have followed the debate: you have not said anything at all!]] I said very clearly that when Bank Austria comes up with a concern, it needs a legal change. The National Council, together with the Federal Council, is responsible for legal changes, and if there are any wishes, Parliament must be involved. My personal opinion is quite clear: If you want to change this, you have to make the situation as if the employees and the company had paid what any other ASVG insured person has paid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] - I wanted to make that clear.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13451	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13472	Madam President. Minister! Dear viewers! I would like to express my disappointment now, because I actually know you, ladies and gentlemen, and colleagues from NEOS, as a constructive discussion partner and partner. [[Abg. Wenninger: Not all and not always!]] In this case, however, I feel as if you were in a huge Rocky-Horr-Pensionsshow, and somehow you don't come out completely. What you are creating about horror scenarios, gloomy prospects, fears of the future, I really don't think that's funny anymore, I have to say quite honestly, in connection with the fact that this is really about a very, very big question of the future, and you – you who always claim you want to make everything unique! – on this question, however, are obviously on the wrong steamer. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] Obviously, the use of tax resources or the question of how much the social state has to be sure of pensions, so poison in your minds, that you want to prevent everything from working on real solutions. Although you mention the current hour – I don't know exactly how – and work on current solutions or something like that, I've really listened carefully now, Mr Loacker and colleague Gamon, and I have not yet come up with any real solution or even any solution. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Some headlines were there!]] I miss it, but maybe it's still coming. I am also a little tired to hold this contrast debate permanently, in the contrasts between women and men, the poor and the rich, the young and the old. – I think we need to look at the fact that we are working on a system and on solutions for further generations – from the generation now to our children and the children of our children – that the pensions are safe until then. I no longer want to talk about broken cars – it's not a nice green picture either – but rather I'd rather talk about a functioning railway and many cars, and in every car there's a generation. I would like us to think about a pension model where in every generation – in every car – there is enough space for people, everyone and everyone has a place, and there is no first class, no second class, no business class, but one class for all, and I want us to work together on this system. We are also making an extensive request for this today. In contrast to you, we have really thought about how a pension system can look for all if everyone pays the same amount and even at age get the same out, with the same benefits, the same contributions. One thing is particularly important to us – Mr Eva Glavischnig has already mentioned it –: We want to create a secure system that protects against poverty in old age, and I don't even see that with you at all. To come back to it again: Meanwhile, the average pension for women is – the middle pension! – €860. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Less than the minimum security!]] Fortunately, no one here in this room has to get out of the pension with so little money. That is, we are in the privileged situation of being able to think about how people are getting older, and it is our job to ensure that people of old are protected from poverty. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Abg. Shit helmet.]] I would therefore like to have a real serious debate on this – that is also the objective of the proposal that we are presenting today – as we can create a system for everyone, because that is what everyone always wants. We suggest, at least once, how we manage to ensure that there is a fair, secure system for all, which protects against poverty in old age, which is gender-friendly, in which men and women get the same thing, where there is a basic guarantee for all aged people and which is paid out of tax resources, and the rest comes from what they have paid in the course of working life. This is a system that is the same for all, and I would like us to work together to provide our children and our grandchildren with a fair pension model for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13556	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13577	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Especially dear young citizens who sit on the visitor gallery or at home in front of the screens! We're discussing the pension system. We have said this on the agenda, because it is not going well. Of course, this vehicle, as we are currently talking about, is scrapping, and this ascribement is legitimate because the young people can no longer drive this vehicle. Mrs Schwentner, our goal is not to reduce social standards, but we have the following objective: that our generation and our children should be able to rely on our pension system. But the problem is: You can't rely on it! - I'll get to what it looks like. [[Abg. Schwentner: And how does it look in your eyes?]] Minister, the problem is: They say we made that up in 1955, and since then we've adjusted it, and everything's good. – Nothing is good because we have already started to finance this system on pump in the 1960s! We have been making entirely reliable new debts every year for 53 years, and that is not all right. They from SPÖ and ÖVP have made responsibility for the right of habit in this House, and that is not okay. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And when I practice this criticism and get called by the green side: Yes, what is not built on debt in Austria?!, then it's a kind of harm loosening and capitulation that I don't bear! Why don't I bear them? – Because it’s a great-style robbery! Here at the visitor gallery are young people and perhaps also older people who have grandchildren who worry about the people – the highest unemployment for 70 years, also a result of your policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Of course we need jobs, of course we need jobs! However, people retired in the 1970s later than today, and we have found – and this, Mrs Glawischnig, Mr Van der Bellen, said at our discussion meeting yesterday at the NEOS Lab – that we are currently gaining two to three months of life expectancy per year. It's great that we get older, but we can't say we're expected to be over 50 years old, a total of 25 years older, but keep the same system. Why? - Because that doesn't work out. We're building up massive debts. We are currently spending €20 billion on pension grants and civil servants' pensions. Looking at the young people: We have 1.1 million pupils in Austria, and we spend €8 billion on pensions compared to €20 billion on pensions, €20 billion on pensions, €8 billion on 1.1 million for students. [[Abg. Wöginger: How many people are those who are in retirement?]] There are 370 000 students in Austria, and we don't even spend €4 billion on them. [[Abg. Schwentner:... spread fear!]] The rate of increase in pensions is €0.5 billion per year – that is, it is completely out of control! The solution we propose is the following – and we were in Sweden and we also invited Sweden, and the Norwegians also copied the Swedish: [[Abg. Schwentner: They will have 720 € pension in the future!]] We want a flexi board so that the pension is also constantly adjusted. I don't want to cut average women's pension – it's at €840 – but I want to – and I don't want to refuse the greens to remove special pensions. There are still people in this republic who run around with 30 000 € of pension per month, fifteen times a year. That's the cleaner we have to put off. There the greens were not ready to cut in properly. They have supplied the two-thirds majority and so ensure that these suctions continue to be maintained. We have to go in there, because that's not okay! [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] On the subject of special pension rights: The city of Vienna has extended the special pension rights until 2042. Yes, and the young people? – Maximum indebtedness for 70 years, maximum unemployment for 70 years, no money for schools to renovate, to adapt for teachers, and then should they look into the exhaust in the pension system? This is not fair, and this kind of responsibility will not be borne by NEOS.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13688	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13710	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Anxiety is and has been a bad advice in all areas. You can discuss all the issues, but you should not frighten the population. I think just as NEOS did with this description, it's bad. What we should do here – and for this we were elected – is: Find solutions. Yes, we have a problem in the pension area! We have a problem in the field of sustainability, which assures us all studies. That is, in the future, this system will be difficult to finance, but it is precisely here that we have to look at which screws we have to turn so that this system is also single fit. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole pension theme cannot be discussed in isolation! We cannot call for women to work up to 65 years of age or for the retirement age to be increased for all without at the same time turning on the screw of economic policy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] We cannot complain that there are too few children that the generation agreement is not fulfilled without ensuring that there are framework conditions for young women that they also trust to put more children into the world. Ladies and gentlemen, today, and you will confirm this to me, many young women say: I just don't trust to put kids in the world! How do I finance this? How am I supposed to do this with the job? – We need framework conditions for families through which families are strengthened and young people are encouraged into families. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we also need an education policy, so that this state is coming back forward. We must invest in research and development in order to create framework conditions for the economy so that the economic location is strengthened and jobs are created so that the labour market takes up many people and, if we decide here today, people should work longer, we do not have to ask whether they do not get into unemployment at the end of the day. We need all of this, and that is why we cannot discuss this subject in isolation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about two factors. On the one hand, it's about justice. The current system is anything but fair. If we are talking about future poverty in old age, we must not forget that there is already poverty today: More than one million people in pension live below the poverty line. Just yesterday, on Lerchenfelder Straße, I saw an older man – he left before me – who got into the paper cube, took out a coffee cup and drank the rest of the coffee. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not look away, let's not close our eyes to the poverty of old age! Let's look at the supermarkets where after 6:00 p.m. old people stand and see that they can buy the bread whose price has been lowered! When we talk about justice, we look at the other side of the medal: There are still people who, despite less contributions, have more than €30 000 pension, who live in prosperity like the Maden in the bacon, and with our percentage increase, we contribute to the fact that these people have more and more and more with every increase. - That's where it's supposed to be. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We need to look at this percentage increase critically: Is it really fair, beyond the maximum limit of the ASVG, to pay for the privileges for which it was often not paid? I say quite clearly to you: No, no, no, We from the Stronach team do not want to be gilded by the privileges, and for this reason we will also submit a request on this subject. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler]] First of all, we call for a uniform system for all, because only that brings justice, and on the other hand, a percentage increase only to the maximum limits of the ASVG, for it ensures that those people who claim rights that they are not entitled to will not be able to pay them any more in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13797	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13818	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A current hour for the “rotting” pension system in Austria: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Klubobmann Strolz, I think that is not quite the right approach and the right issue. This is not the way to describe the pension system in Austria, I would like to maintain it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the General Pension Act has since 2005 regulated the pension system for all persons who are from 1st century onwards. ==References====External links== Until 2004 there were various pension schemes for different social groups, such as workers, employees, self-employed, farmers and so on. Since January 2014, there has been the pension account, and this applies to all those persons who are from the 1st century onwards. ==References====External links== Now again, many people in Austria who work hard are insecured with words like pension reform or pension automatics, and that is not all right, ladies and gentlemen! I say and claim that 45 years or 40 years are enough, ladies and gentlemen! That is out of question. All the self-proclaimed experts should be aware of the enormous performance of a mason, a carpenter, a roomer, or a nurse who has 45 or 40 years of service on the bumple. I don't think they need to be ashamed of it. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is often much to be desired from an older worker or an older worker. I think that has to be said. I have also heard that the Minister said that this year €300 million less federal funding for pensions had to be spent. That's not so bad. The Minister has said that from 2015 to 2019 about €3 billion will be spent less on federal funds for pensions. It would be high time, Mr Klubobmann, to thank the many diligent people in Austria once and that they are not always unsure. I think that would be appropriate. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I must also address the following: Mr Klubobmann, I think it was not you who spoke about the luxury pensions in the National Bank or also in state companies and the social benefits for managers, but it was Colleague Belakovich. I think we should look closely at this, and that is urgently appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13867	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:35:29]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13888	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:35:49]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 7235/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14186	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 7235/AB to Question No 7540/J by Mr Lugar, Members of Parliament, on 'Effects of the refugee crisis: Illegal persons” by the Federal Minister for the Interior. [[10:36:19]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14208	I would also like to say that a request for a short debate on the request of Members. Loacker, colleague and colleagues are present to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for reporting on Mr. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein's motion for a resolution 1504/A(E) by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on disclosure of the Bank-Austria-Pensionsdeal. ==References== As the request for short debates has been made at the same time, they will be called in the order in which I have listed them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at 3 p.m. Any vote will take place following the debate on this subject. I would also like to say that before entering the agenda, Members of Parliament, Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues and colleagues, asked the Family Committee to report to the Member States on the request of Mr Kitzmüller, Mr Kitzmüller, Mr Colleagues on the adaptation of family allowances for children abroad to the respective cost of living. ==References====External links== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14238	In order to be able to negotiate item 14, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (998, e.g.): 2. Inflation law (1010 d. B.). I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal from the time-limit for this committee report to give a sign of this kind. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14268	The debate on points 4 and 5, 6 to 8, 9 and 10, 11 to 13 and 16 and 17 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda with this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14293	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as NEOS and Stronach per 44 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club within 22 minutes of this Decision. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote of the just-described speaking time. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:40:04]] 1. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (999, d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law on the National Qualifications Framework (NQR Act) (1007 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14337	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I welcome Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14367	Good morning, Madam President. Minister! High house! Values Seer at home in front of the screens! Since I am the first speaker on this subject today, I may be able to explain this briefly. National Qualifications Framework, in short NQR: What does that mean? What does that mean? – This is a very meaningful story in itself. It is a question of standardising and making comparable vocational training and training in Europe. The classification from 1 to 8 has been created for this purpose. This is about the assignment of personal knowledge and knowledge in stages 1 to 8. So this is in itself a very meaningful story, but without any factual effects. It is no longer an admission to the university or similar. The great advantage would actually be a professional comparability within Europe or an image appreciation, at which level one is at which level one finds himself with his vocational or school training. By the way, this project is still in its infancy at EU level – that is, EQR – according to section head Dorninger. This means that no one can waive the time when this National Qualifications Framework will be incorporated into a European Qualifications Framework at European level. But the talks are at least running. It will take some time, but in principle this is a positive story. But now I come to the point: What has our Federal Government, including Mrs Minister, done about this story? – One has to say that the start of this project was NQR 2008. We write today 2016. In my opinion, this is also symptomatic of the professionalism and speed of government work in the field of education, if you need a simple thing like the NQR eight years to put a government template on the table now. You have created a bureaucracy sample with this government template. There I am, on the other hand, in the same way as the Greens. I'm trying to explain it. First of all, there is an NQR coordination body. These are three new plantations in the ministry or outsourced bodies, which will cost taxpayers €250 000 a year. Then there's an NQR advisory board. This is defined by seven experts. The woman minister is very proud of the 50 percent female rate. I'm curious about how seven people do. But I suppose there will be at least four women. – Great performance! Then there is the NQR control group – and that is typical Austria, typical proporz black/red – which is now a body of 30 people. There are all who are known in Austria, the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, and, and, and. That is to say, this is a thirty-seventh body; and these three places will hopefully have to finish this NQR at some point. In the autumn of 2016, the electronic register is expected to stand, and the manual should be completed, but all of this was made by the Minister of the Interior in the Committee. I hope that's actually coming. But the most important thing or that in my opinion is most shameful: Parliament, the Members of this House are outside and not involved in this process. We Liberals, just to make it a little pragmatic, have already made a request in 2012 – that is, our hopefully soon Federal President Norbert Hofer – to order the HTL graduate, the HTL engineer in this classification between 1 and 8 at Stage 6. In the meantime, I believe that this request has been postponed three times in the Committee on Education, i.e. drawers. So we've had this topic at the table since 2012. Even now in the government template, you have not managed to write the HTL engineer into this paper. Even if the ÖVP always apologizes and says that it will be soon – this does not help the HTL engineers in Austria. They are fogging or making it difficult for them to look for jobs within Europe. This image appreciation of the HTL engineer does not take place. I find that more than worrying. In principle, one simply has to say that two things are really important in this NQF: first of all, the craftsman's profession, that is to say, the craftsman, because it is unique in Europe. The second area is the higher education schools, in particular the HTL engineer, who otherwise does not exist in Europe in this form. Just those two things, where Austria should actually show leadership, are currently not included in the NQR. Short version: Mrs Minister, this simple example shows the total failure of the government in the field of education. I say it again: Although the ÖVP is in reality a bit happy about the not very good performance of the red Minister of Education, it does not help Austria. It does not help students, it also does not help the economic location. You should finally come from the ÖVP and make the demands you constantly make in the Chamber of Commerce and in other institutions, sometime in the government, and not constantly make the wall to cover the failure of the red ministers of teaching in recent years. I wrote it to myself because it's relatively much: Chaos in the educational reform – this was announced a few weeks ago, nothing happened at all. Suddenly, the abolition of grades in the public schools, major question marks, I do not know the line of the government here. There are still about 25 percent factual illiteracy in Austria and 10,000 school leavers each year who do not have a degree. The Central Matura has been a sad topic in recent years. Further: Chaos in BIFIE and devastating results in the PISA tests. Where, by the way, do the reds keep making great announcements about the educational opportunities for socially weak groups, and what about inherited education? Where's that? - Everything just announcements! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where's the free choice? Where does the school autonomy remain with the resolution of the school slogans? What happened to these headlines? Depoliticisation of the school: That's what I'm listening to and actually don't see at all. Violence and mobbing in schools: What's going on? – Just announcements! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then the running joke: the daily turn hour. We have had the subject since 2013. Of course, the daily turn hour has also passed in the sand. Medium maturity, aftertature before the summer break – all very simple things. Everything's not happening, pure chaos! Also an important area: the insufficient basic knowledge of apprentices in businesses. You know the problem: Entrepreneurs who want to recruit apprentices are quite difficult and increasingly difficult to find apprentices who are at all capable of taking up the apprenticeship. In my opinion, this is a declaration of bankruptcy in recent years and decades. Another subject that is very important in terms of knowledge – one has seen it in recent weeks – is one that we have been bringing to the liberals for years: There is a problem that in schools, unfortunately, very many of God's students are sitting who are not powerful in the German language. Foreign Minister Kurz, who copies a lot of things from us, has now suddenly also realized that it really needs migration classes. Also in the red Vienna there are now suddenly ten classes only with refugee children. All of a sudden. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll finish. They have managed, Mrs Minister, consistently and persistently over the past few years and decades, to really ruin the school system in Austria, and to ruin it permanently. All results and all personal experience reports from concerned parents clearly show: The school system in Austria has been sent to say it with Leitl. I see no counter-development, not from the red side, unfortunately not from the ÖVP, in any way turning this negative trend in recent years into a positive trend. Not only do you personally harm tens of thousands of children each year, but you also harm Austria. I can only say: Please, end this failure government and new elections immediately! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14527	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14627	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14648	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurm, it is a pity that you are misusing this sensible story, as you yourself have said, of a National Qualifications Framework in order to get a substantial round-handle instead of addressing the important issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The National Qualifications Framework is certainly an appropriate instrument for creating transparency and comparability of qualifications in Austria, but also in the EU area, because we are in fact in a European Qualifications Framework. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Eight years, Mrs. Colleague!]] The time has also been properly chosen so that we do not have to re-adjust this later. We keep pace with European development and go parallel here. This is also important to promote learning and labour mobility and not to run the risk that the value of a qualification at the national border will end. Very positive in this draft law is the orientation of learning outcomes. It plays the main role of a graduate, a graduate, and not what formal criteria are met or how much time has been spent in an institution in order to formulate it. It is crucial that: What can anyone do? What does a training offer? Here, learning areas and areas of work are evaluated equally. In this way, the qualification acquired in practice is also recognized accordingly and thus the work is upgraded in itself. This is a very important step. We have already preceded these steps in our education with competence orientation, for example in the standardized maturity test. As we have already done, further steps will be taken. Overall, I also expect this law to boost the quality of education providers at all levels, because there has now been a wild growth in adult education. Through this qualification framework, we give people guidance so that not much time, money and energy are invested in training that may not keep what they promise. So this is a good thing, there are many reasons to agree. That is why I am looking for you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14697	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14718	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, we are in the fourth month following the so-called agreement of the government parties on the educational reform package. Four months we have waited for us to be able to finally discuss the fundamental issues of the Austrian education system in the parliamentary field, so that we can address fundamental problems that we can introduce those steps of reform that are urgently needed as there are: a reform of kindergarten education, elementary pedagogy, a reform of the school of the 10- to 14-year-olds, a simplification of the administrative reform et cetera, et cetera. And what do we have? - Sending break. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Say yes’ I do!]] Red and black are blocking each other. There's debt allocations. There are interpretations of a paper that is supposed to be an agreement. To this day, we don't have any of that. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! That is no longer reasonable for Austria. It is a central project in the field of education. I ask you, we demand greens. You really want to enter into negotiations here at last so that we can take a step forward. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] On the subject at hand, the National Qualifications Framework: He's overdue. We welcome this step. We consider it very, very important that we get away from stand-darks, that we get away from purely formal classification of education, that we come to an appreciation of the craftsmanship activities, that we give the appropriate recognition to one of the few demonstration projects that the Austrian education system has – that is, dual training, but that is also vocational training in medium and higher education. That is where we have certainly taken a first step with this law. But what we complain about is, on the one hand, the organisational structure that has been built here. Mr Wurm has taken over my statement from the Committee on the bureaucratic monster that has been created here. In fact, I think it was much easier. However, I also believe that we have to deal with a subject that is actually in high-level administration and competence and is not outsourced, as so much in this Republic. In principle, we want this step towards international comparability. This is a matter of urgency. We have there – and I think that is clear to all those involved – some construction sites that – I like to admit – are not so easy to solve from today to tomorrow, and where we may also need some experience. I am addressing the training of master craftsmen. I also address the so-called HTL engineers. All of this has to be observed even further, and experience certainly plays an important role. But what we are complaining about is this structure from a coordination point to an NQF advisory board and finally to a control group. Imagine a steering group that now has 30 members! There won't be much to control, I'm sorry. We have also discussed this issue in the Scientific Committee. Mr. Vice-Chancellor has quit this with a smile, probably knowing that in Austria – he has told us – it is difficult to make such bodies smaller. At that time it was still 28 members, it has become 30 already. In this way, we can be glad that we decide on the law today, because next week, we might have more members in this advisory board. So what we need is not an expensive organisational structure. What we want is a clear structure, as far as possible a federal structure. What we would have liked, at least in the medium term, would also be legally binding and not, as is the case here, purely a recommendation. What we would have liked to question is, for example, the promotion of private educational providers, which is done by hand here. This is questionable from our point of view. What we would like is transparency. What we would like would be parliamentary control. But we don't see all that. That is why we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14764	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14785	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests at the gallery! So, the opposition must already hurt a little bit, just to say that something is good. Mr Wurm has not even found it worth the effort to deal with the subject in itself. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Eight years you have needed!]] Today is a good day, Mr President, because today... [[Abg. Peter Worm: Eight years!]] – What lasts for a long time will finally be good – look forward to it! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Today is a good day, because now all Austrians who have learned something that has become more and more educated have finally come to see the qualifications they have acquired, both internationally and across Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Until now, it was difficult because we have other systems. For example, we have a much lower profile in the field of university education than in other countries, and many comparable qualifications take place in the school sector, in our excellent vocational education and training school. Our system is one that we can be proud of because we are successful. We therefore have low unemployment and a high quality of skilled workers. As a small country in the global competition, we are resuming our husbands because we have the necessary trainings to do so. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] However, we have always missed the opportunity to make these trainings comparable and visible, and this law will do just that now. It is made visible who has what qualification, and this, of course, helps the individual, because he is also upgraded in his person to those who simply say: I can prove that I have a university education. Now it will be possible to compare the acquired training with a university education in another country. This innovation helps us, in particular in the economic field, because we can finally put an end to the disadvantage that our companies do not exist in certain calls for tenders, because they cannot prove that their employees, whose qualifications for tendering are very often crucial, have the same qualifications. For all these reasons, I am very pleased that we are adopting this National Qualifications Framework Act today. Yeah, it's right. We have to fill it with content and bring it to life. It is therefore necessary that the steering group, the coordination body and the service body are quickly established and the necessary steps are implemented. Of course, the size of a body can be discussed. In my assessment, the body is composed mainly of persons from those areas of competence who need it to be allocated. There must be people in this body who are aware of the various trainings and qualifications so that the right allocation can also be made.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14857	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14879	High house! In the course of this debate, I would first like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What is the point of this proposal? – In Austria, we have a system that has proved successful in the past: We have special schools which provide sufficient capacity and sufficient teaching staff for all those who need special support. But now the woman minister goes here and wants to destroy this functioning system of special schools by abolishing these schools by 2020 and so to speak, and she calls it inclusion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] That's why she's doing this because she's acting ideologically. It is about ideological orientation and not about the well-being of children. It's about pressing everyone into a school type as far as possible. This is also the idea of the common school, where everyone is pressed into a system and then hopes that it will be positive for everyone. But the question is: Is that really the case? – We from the Stronach team recently had some affected at a press conference, and affected mothers have told about how their children are doing in this system, namely that they are trying with all force to squeeze up disabled children – in this particular case they were mentally disabled children – in the regular school business, and that in the end on the back of all those involved. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Go! “spiritually disabled children”?- Oh, my God!]] That means: The class suffered, the child in particular, and also the parents suffered. That is why the question arises: Why do you want to destroy a functioning system without having something adequate on the other side? Why do you want to lock up special schools with all force? In implementing this measure, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled is now always being called upon to do so. Only: If you read them exactly – it doesn't seem to do many – you can see that there is a free choice in them. That means that the parents or the children, if they can, should have the freedom of choice: Do you want a special promotion in the special school or an inclusive model in the regular school? Only: How can you choose to delete the options? – Especially in Carinthia, we have the problem of starved special schools to close special schools, and then we say: Yeah, you can choose anyway. But how can a parent choose if there are no more special schools? – Then you have to go into inclusion – even if you know that it doesn’t work. At this press conference, a affected mother described quite clearly how her child is doing, namely that her mentally disabled child, who is also autistic, is sitting in a corner all day long, as it cannot begin with larger groups, and finally feels like a foreign body. When you released this child from the obligation to go to this regular school again and gave him the opportunity to go to a special school again, this child was re-bloomed, and finally everyone was served. That's exactly what you don't want to understand, Mrs. Minister! That's why I really ask you: Stop such measures that have an ideological background! Don't try to crush everyone in a corset, but promote those who need it, actually as they need it! Your model, Mrs. Minister, is quite simple: They destroy structures that work, such as the special school, and they promote structures that do not work, which prove to be not working, just like the New Secondary School. You already have the evidence that it doesn't work, and still insist, and yet you put more money in. That is why my appeal to you – and I hope that you will make this clear today – is: Stop destroying functioning structures! I think that in particular the children and also the parents, who are very difficult – especially in Carinthia, and are likely to do so in all of Austria by 2020 – are going to suffer from your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14939	Mr Van den Broek, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. The motion for a resolution tabled by Lugar is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14998	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15019	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! We negotiate the NQR Act, the Federal Law on the National Qualifications Framework. We NEOS will vote in favour of this law, but not with great euphoria, because there are many criticisms that we have also discussed in the Committee: It has a hit page towards red tape, and § 3 para. 2 I also see skeptical, because – and this is unique in the European Union – there is a way forward. Call for the academic field and the non-academic field is signposted, and I think it is absurd to speak this type of labeling and darkness. That means we have to stop in Austria. If you're a magister, you're a better person – that's a fool! This kind of academic... [[President Head speaks with a clearly audible voice with an employee.]] - Please? - Oh, not to me! I just don't like this kind of stigmatization. Why do we agree? – For three reasons: On the one hand, it is important that we find a European language in the field of education, and a European Qualifications Framework derived from national qualifications frameworks is such a common European language. That's good, that's right. To this end, I must say, Mrs. Minister, that we have needed over ten years to do this: It's a little long-sleeping. But after all, we're on our way now. Secondly – and this is even more important to me –: We need permeability in the education system. No degree without connection – this is especially important, for example for apprentices: Nearly 40 percent of the age cohorts of the 15-year-olds in Austria are teaching. Dual training is a very important training rail, and development must continue as well. This is only one area where connectivity is particularly important. Again: No degree without connection – and the qualification framework will help us. This is also an appreciation of the craft trainings, which I consider important for Austria. Thirdly, The principle of result orientation is that NEOS is positive. This means that one doesn't work so much with the funnel in the field of education and has a detailed meaning about it: What do we empty into these young people? but that we look at it: What learning results do we want to achieve, and what do we actually achieve? – in the sense of: What it weighs, it's got it! We learn for life, and then there is less relevant: What have I poured in?, but there is important: What's inside? What learning results are available for these people? – We should cultivate appreciation for this, and that is what happens with this law. That is why we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15073	Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15095	Mr President. High house! Dear visitors! I am really delighted to be able to say that the Austrian population is incredibly willing to continue education and education, and that the large number of adult education institutions we offer are also well-accepted. This applies to individual professional groups in particular, but this also applies in general. I am also delighted that in the field of vocational training, we are absolutely in the European, if not globally, top-notch field. Young people attending vocational schools will again qualify for EuroSkills on the weekend. Not only apprentices, but also students can participate in them. And no matter what the international guests I meet with, all want to inform themselves: on the one hand, about our dual vocational training system and on the other hand about our vocational training in the middle of the Reading and higher education, which relatively enjoys a single position in Europe and can be considered unique worldwide. In addition, I am really delighted that we have jointly launched a BIFIE reform in the past. Last year, the BIFIE, the educational research institute, brought the new Matura, which we will now get back to the department, into the stage in an excellent way. I am also delighted that we can now implement the new concept of the New Secondary School for all those who once went to a primary school that we can provide for this modern pedagogical concept six hours in which teachers and students can work together on new opportunities. There have just been two events today that simply continue the story of what we are doing in the field of education. First of all: Today I have presented with the Minister for Family Affairs the electronic schoolbooks, which can be ordered from the next school year on the printed schoolbooks. We will further develop the electronic school books so that there will be E-Books Plus. What does that mean? – That you can access a video yourself in the electronic school books, change texts, so you can work interactively in these books. Secondly, Thankfully, in good cooperation with Mr Huainigg, I have today been able to present an app that illustrates the political events in simple language. I think it is important not only for young people but also for adults to be able to provide information in a short and compact way – if you want a quick overview of what is happening in the daily political life. I would also like to say what we have done with education reform in the field of education. Let's remember: Since the 1960s, the education system has been changed in terms of developing and publishing own rules for the nine federal states and the federal government. It is now possible for the first time in 40 or 50 years to agree again that the government structure, the administration of teachers, will be made easier, and that is what will happen in the next few days and weeks. We will present a first package of this educational reform, which will reduce the stress on young people entering school and will provide more opportunities for teachers and parents: Where's the child? How's he doing? What does the child bring from kindergarten to folk school? What has it gained from strengths and interests that I can apply in the public school according to age and development? This means that the decision to introduce the more gentle entry into school will soon also be made to you here. It will be about deciding how we achieve in the field of folk school, have less stress and more alternatives to evaluate children except with grades 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, because children want to show performance, and performance can only be shown if you describe performance in words and not just in notes. Of course, it should not be easy for parents to ask for notaries as well. No one wants to abolish notaries, but we want to offer another opportunity so that what 4,000 classes already have in Austria, namely in the school attempt, we can offer an alternative to the grades – and the note to make it possible for all if parents want to do so. This will be part of the first educational reform package. It took some time for us – and I am now going to the item on the agenda – to draw up the National Qualifications Framework in the light of the comparability of the diplomas acquired, whether in the school sector, in the non-school sector or in the tertiary field, wherever they may be. It is now also – and we are leaning on the European Qualifications Framework, which has existed since 2008 – to create the third so-called Corridor, through which other qualifications that people acquire – apart from those proven by a certificate in school or another adult education institution – should be recognised, such as in the social field. This is the only thing that is still being worked on, namely how to build this third corridor for the acquisition of qualifications, in which – when someone is applied when compared – it is about questions like: What can a person do? What does she bring? What has it achieved in the field of youth extra-school work, which can be of importance to qualifications? We are now implementing this with the National Qualifications Framework, which is a register of eight levels, in which we can compare for the first time in terms of the school and non-school sectors, and also in terms of the diplomas acquired in a craft or in the field of the economy. I am saving myself to do this now, but I would like to say: I am really pleased that this National Qualifications Framework is now being adopted, because this gives our people across Europe the opportunity to apply for their diplomas, including those made in other countries, when they have worked there and acquired additional qualifications. You can then get the register back to know: Where can I imagine, and how am I seen? All in all, I believe that we are on a good footing – even with regard to the disabled children who have been addressed. We strive to live up to all parents as far as possible, and try to ensure that no one is overwhelmed by a step-by-step approach to human rights and the dignity of each individual person in the field of education. We are concerned that, with the optimum care and support of all children in one area, i.e. with disabilities or without, whether with the background of immigration or without, all have the same opportunity to develop. Nobody's talking about equalizing here, no one says we're calling children over when they're sitting with a disability in the regular school. You need a special accompaniment, that's clear. But they may also want to be a bit of a part of it, and if it becomes too much for them, then you can of course take it out of groups in the regular school – just as we now take out of groups children who don't yet have such good Germans. That is also said to clear up with a prejudice. A child needs a parent and a home class to learn to orient, especially when it comes here traumatized and does not know: Where do I belong? How am I? – Then it is all the more important to make these children fit through intensive language promotions, so that they can communicate with the others as soon as possible and, of course, not only acquire diplomas in Austria, but can then apply them to their later life course. We've been twisting all these screws together for many years. I would also like to remind those who now see this critically that we are in the Austrian educational system. tem have long been making wonderful progress. The fact that the pace does not fit one or the other is quite correct, but the Austrian education system is also a very complex system in its organization. Finally, all of this is unimportant if one keeps the main question in the foreground, namely: What is the benefit of the children, and how can we, as far as possible, satisfy all children who use our school system, our education system – from kindergarten to adult education – and offer something? I would like to thank all those who, together with me as now responsible Minister of State, have made their way. And I would like to thank all those who work in this system – not always on the simplest conditions – for the teachers and the elementary teachers.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15204	Mrs Maurer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15225	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Back to the NQR, to the National Qualifications Framework. It has already been mentioned in detail that, in principle, it is positive that qualifications and competences are put in a comparable framework so that one knows what one is about so that it becomes more internationally comparable et cetera. I also believe that it is necessary and correct that this happens. The discussion has been running since 2008, we have 2016 – so it took a lot of time. One could say that now we have at least one law; and that is something anyway. But let us take a closer look at the structure of this National Qualifications Framework Act, and perhaps ask whether this structure is actually suitable to ensure an objective, objective, transparent and independent classification of education. So we have the coordination body at the OeAD once. This is a person so far, who still gets other employees, but it is basically a very small structure. It's already there, and it'll continue to do that. This person shall decide on his own, without any legal framework, as to how he or she shall find offers, and whether he shall obtain opinions or consult the Advisory Board or not. There is no requirement for this to be more objective in any way. This person decides this according to their own appreciation. Then we have this advisory board, the expert advisory board, which is allowed to advise, as we do in many areas in Austria. There are experts inside, but they don't really have skills. And then we have the steering group – also mentioned more often – which has the actual competence. It approves the Rules of Procedure and has a very strong instrument, namely the possibility of vetoing a classification which it does not like. But how is the control group set up? As mentioned above, there are 30 persons, and of these 30 people alone 17 government representatives, so all ministries are represented, plus the country coordination agency. That is to say, the government is already making a 60% majority in this body. I repeat: It is about the transparent, objectively correct assessment of education classifications. I don't quite understand why every single ministry has to sit inside; but well, that's how it was done. Then there are six more nominated persons from the Advisory Board on Social and Economic Affairs, i.e. the Chamber of Workers and the WKÖ. We are already here with a large majority of the government groups in this body. Then there are six more independent persons nominated by the University Conference, by the High School Conference and so on. But we have an 80 percent majority, a political majority in this governing body, to decide whether or not a classification is correct. I wonder why this is necessary. Why do we need such a politically controlled decision when it comes to an objectively oriented classification of education offers, which should actually be reflected in opinions? We have a recent example of what happens when policies decide on how to measure educational opportunities. We have had a sudden doubling of the academic rate in Austria since last year, because after a long lobbying of the Chamber of Commerce – then under Mrs. Karl – was enforced that in Austria now 4 and 5 now. Class BHS is considered academic. That's why we have a sudden doubling of the academic ratio. That's great for politics, for education, that's certainly not great. Why is this political control in this body so necessary now? - Well! The Chamber of Workers and the WKÖ both have a very wide range of educational services, and of course they would also like them to be classed well. A "skelemine" who thinks evil might be done in such a way that the two chambers color each other's educational offerings. In view of the structure proposed here and which is likely to be decided today, I think this accusation is very comprehensible. We're going to look very closely at that. Indeed, it is not for the NQF – as has been mentioned more often today – to evaluate the image of an educational offer, but to make an objectively correct assessment of the actual level of education. We are very clearly opposed to the fact that there is a lack of skills here, and we are going to observe it very closely. I am also excited whether we will receive answers to our parliamentary questions. This process, this law certainly does not ensure that it is transparent, that it is objective. We'll see how it works, we'll keep watching it. Transparent is something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15290	Mrs Kucharovich is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15311	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to comment briefly on Mr Lugar. And that's... It is quite clear the same rights for all children, whether a child has a disability, has a disability or not, because children with disabilities or with disabilities still do not have the equal rights. And that is almost embarrassing in 2016. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, we also want the inclusive, common school – not because we imagine it, but because the children want it. We have already discussed this in the committee, and we should talk to the children about it and not always talk about it. We want the same rights for these children, they just stand by them. Now to the NQR law. When is what as what and what is actually acceptable for? – Actually, the question is hardly understandable. However, this has an end to the law today, because the National Qualifications Framework – as mentioned by some – ensures transparency and, above all, comparability. That is, you, you and all of us will no longer be overwhelmed by the answer to the question, which qualifications we have really acquired through various courses, training measures and co, but also through informal learning, that is, learning from practice and through practice. There is no good will there – Mr Maurer has referred to that previously. It is not a matter of political control, but this control group is filled with experts, where we discuss very widely together and involve everyone as much as possible. It is not about goodwill, but there are clear classifications, namely the eight stages from compulsory schooling to academic degree. On the one hand, this is very positive, because in Austria there is already the challenge of creating comparability. We think of the university level, where something that cannot be calculated in Vienna, for example, can be calculated in Innsbruck. But, above all, Europe-wide comparability is important. It is simply a relief for all, promoting permeability and, above all, lifelong learning. I have already spoken about the steering group before, and there is also the advisory board and the coordinating body. In the original draft, only representatives of the Ministries, the countries, were provided for in the governing group, which is by the way genderly occupied. It's already been mentioned today. But an important part, namely the representation of three million children and young people, has been missing, as well as extra-school child and youth work as an educational area, which is extremely important. There's a lot going on. Think of children's and youth organizations, of voluntary associations, there is a lot to learn for the whole life. With an amendment we have then enabled children and young people to participate in the parliamentary process, we have succeeded. We not only talk about them, but we talk to them, and it is not determined by anyone about them, but it is just common, at eye level and as equivalent partners. Because everything we are discussing concerns children and young people, and we have succeeded in including the Federal Youth Office in the steering group – Mr El Habbassi and me, colleagues of our political groups. That is quite important from our point of view. In short: Today's decision will no longer raise the questions I mentioned at the outset: What exactly did I actually get?, and: What have I learned for what?, but there is now the National Qualifications Framework, which is clearly listed in a register and makes all further training and co transparent for us. I hope that all parties will now see this and still agree to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15365	Second word: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15389	Mr President. High house! Mrs Minister, there have already been many speakers in front of me today who have asked some questions to you. I too have had some questions. In particular, we wanted to know from you how the education reform is going to continue, which you postulated a few months ago as a major milestone. However, you are here today, and the only thing that comes across your lips on the subject of education reform is that you will most likely agree in the future. That is, with regard to the reform, which is supposed to have already been completed or at least in sub-areas, you promise us that you will get a lot more on the way there. But we haven't seen anything concrete so far. That is, what has been announced by you in the last educational reform is practically nonexistent, because you do not seem to have the opportunity to explain to us how things continue in this matter, for example, how autonomy continues – you have not lost a word about it – or how politics is pushed back. Although they renamed the National School Council, they made a label gap, but in the end everything remains as it was: The countries continue to have power, they have no further power, and reform is misrepresented. So: Where is the reform? I would really ask you if you already have the opportunity to explain to Parliament that you are finally addressing what is to be reformed here and how it continues. I believe that the Austrians also deserve to be told how it goes on in such an important question as education. Second point. I asked you to say if You really want to abolish all special schools by 2020. In the Committee you have said that if there are problems, and I have described the cases to you, then we will receive special schools on time, but today you have not said anything about them, because no one in the Committee knows what you are saying, and you are very well guarded here to repeat it in the public. What I want to hear from you is that you stop destroying the special schools. And what you said today was that you want to destroy the special schools and then introduce such a kind of special schools in the regular schools. That is, a special school in the regular school. Now I'm wondering, What's good for? Why do you want to destroy an existing structure? – Just because you imagine that everyone has to be in a pot just because you imagine that every child, no matter what disability it has, is optimally removed in the regular school?- Oh, my God! That is the central question, and unfortunately you have not said anything about it, and that is the problem. That is why, Mrs Minister: I want you to make a confession that the special schools remain, only because incredibly many parents who have disabled children – especially mentally disabled children – are currently very worried. What happens if you, with your ideological escapades, actually manage to ruin all special schools? What happens to the affected children and the parents? – This is the question you should answer here today. I think we all deserved it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15443	Mr Dr. Däderle has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15464	Mr President. Mrs. Ministra! High house! I must once again express my displeasure at how to deal with the agenda here. We have an item on the agenda and are constantly listening to very different issues – issues of high importance are addressed – and are therefore unable to remain on the agenda in the concrete debate. I know very little about the rules of procedure in the Rules of Procedure in order to know whether one could really make the call 'on the matter' appear here, so that the items on the agenda are debated and not all the other important points that are lost in importance because they are brought by the way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So I focus on the issue of the debate, namely the National Qualifications Framework, and I can only say: Yes, this is an issue that has been on our minds for a long time, and which finally comes to a certain conclusion in the form of a law. This conclusion is important because a few things are being put on a new path, formal, informal and non-formal qualifications are being set at an equivalent level, and this is an important step in the course of the rapidly developing educational landscape. So far, it has been especially in Austria, but also in Germany, so that very often, formal qualifications have allowed for further training or a changeover in the education career and otherwise not. These formal regulations partly have an age of over 200 years, and it is high time to replace them with modern regulations. The National Qualifications Framework, following the European Union, is a step in this direction, with the very positive aspects that it increases horizontal and vertical permeability, that it upgrades professional qualifications, that it promotes, above all, the learning outcomes orientation, quite differently from the ECTS regulation at universities, which is completely inappropriate because it measures only working time and compares unachieved qualifications. In this respect, the National Qualifications Framework, including the European, would be a paradigm for improving academic qualifications. It is a good and right step, and I am pleased that it will be decided in the House today.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15504	Next word: Mrs Holtinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15525	Mr President. Estimated citizens who are on TV or the Internet! Dear guests at the gallery! Dear Colleagues! In this debate, I would now like to return to the debated federal law on the National Qualifications Framework and, in particular, to the benefits which I believe are of great benefit to the Austrian population, but also to the European population in the European education and labour market. In accordance with the EU Recommendation from 2007, as we have already heard, a process has been set in motion here, which is designed to make life-long learning comparable with the qualifications achieved. There are eight reference levels that take from basic education the entire spectrum of all possible qualifications that are acquired to the highest level of academic and vocational training. On the other hand, this register is intended to enable the transparency of Austrian educational qualifications, but of course also a comparability of qualifications among colleagues, among employees and companies. However, it should also be able to make its own skills comparable on the European market. In all the laws that are passed, which the European Union or whoever does, we must always ask ourselves the question: What is the benefit of this? What is the advantage for individual citizens? Especially in times - I have already mentioned this in the Committee - which are marked by the unolidaric approach among the European Member States and in which there is a division on the agenda, I think this step is particularly important because it is a step that shows that we are going on each other. What do people have in the European context? – We promote cross-border mobility through the transparency of qualifications, and in the national context, the upgrading of professional qualifications. The eight-stage system promotes this visibility. The craft now receives the proper recognition it deserves, engineers and masters – as we have heard – then stand at the same level as academics across the EU. By 2018, all education diplomas will be classified, but not only formal but also non-formally acquired qualifications, as well as courses, which will simply make the personal further education of people transparent. On behalf of Mr Walser, who has referred to the cost contributions and that the State is alleged to take over the costs of private education providers: The Government template also provides for the possibility – which is to be read on page 4 in concrete terms – of providing for more detailed information in the NQR Coordinating Body Guidelines, which in particular also lays down cost contributions to the procedures for the allocation of non-formal qualifications. I think it is not our task to reject the entire law on the basis of a criticism point, but also to bring us in accordingly in the preparation of these guidelines in order to introduce, if necessary, a planned cost contribution, which is also mentioned and mentioned here. I am very pleased that through the National Qualifications Framework a paradigm change is finally taking place, a paradigm change away from that alone counts how much time you have invested in training, and in the direction that the learning outcomes, the know-how, the skills and skills that are taught in training and acquired by persons. All positive developments, to which I believe the population has deserved our approval! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15573	Next, Mrs Himmelbauer speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15595	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already stated that this National Qualifications Framework concerns the classification of the Austrian education system into a national but above all also in an international scheme. I would like to focus, above all, on the latter, this international comparability, because we need this comparability, but also this classification, in order to give our graduates an instrument that makes their qualifications tangible to foreign employers or to foreign clients. This point has led to a lot of problems in the past, for example with the HTL graduates, which has already been addressed and which we have also discussed very intensively in the Committee. I think I can speak on behalf of everyone here when I say that training at our HTLs is unique in the world. The combination of theoretical and practical teaching, but also economic knowledge transfer results in high-quality training. And what we agreed on in the Committee is that this level of education already corresponds to an academic level of education. But if he is now applying for an HTL graduate abroad, he must, of course, be able to prove this qualification. This also applies to a company that wants to receive a contract abroad or apply for a contract, even in this case, the entrepreneur must be able to prove the qualifications of its employees. It is precisely with this national and the above-mentioned European Qualifications Framework that we want to help in this area. In the future, the classification of all educational qualifications will be carried out by expert experts in an advisory board, and the submission will be made on the proposal of the competent minister or minister, depending on the area in which this training programme is located. I would like to make a request to the Minister to start the preparatory work, in particular, in the autumn, this body, this advisory board, with the request – as we discussed in the Committee – that the HTL graduates be placed at the level 6 of this eight-part scale. On the FPÖ proposal in the Committee: Yes, we have, of course, postponed this request, because we believe that exactly these experts should make this assignment. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... write in!]] This should not be done politically in Parliament or by the ministries, but, of course, on the appropriate proposal, by the experts themselves. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You also wrote the Bachelor!]] Finally, I would like to remain in the HTL area and also to ask the Minister, namely to associate with representatives of this type of school. Despite the excellent training at our HTLs, our HTLs are struggling with the efforts of the system and with the savings and cuts that have been made, whether for the units of values, be it for the group sizes in our workshops or laboratories, even in the technical equipment as a whole. A very important area, which is in itself the HTLs, is the gain of people who come from the economy for a teacher's work, and I believe that the requirements, including training, are superfluous. I would therefore ask you to sit down with those concerned in order to find solutions. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15664	Next word: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15687	You are, of course, right to refer to the agenda. However, I would like to refer briefly to Mr Lugar's comments, because I think it is a very selective listening to what he is doing. There was only one finding in the Committee, which was: Nothing happens when special schools are open beyond 2020. That was the only statement – not that special schools remain in general, but simply that we will not adhere strictly to this timetable, just to keep the timetable, but that there must be reasonable solutions here. The National Qualifications Framework: I think we're really bringing a good law on rail, and a lot of it has already been addressed. I should like to underline what Mr Jank said: We are very successful internationally. We just got the numbers again this week: Austria exports as much as never before. The export volume of Austria is € 130 billion. This is an all-time high, and we expect an increase for this year again. This is because we have highly qualified colleagues in the companies that make this possible. Our problem is, and we know that for many years now, the issue of recognition and appreciation in international comparison. With this qualification framework, we are finally making it possible for the work of our colleagues to be appreciated in the form of classification. And we want to achieve – and I think we all agree – that the HTL engineer is going to step 6. We are all there, I think, even if Mr Worm is too slow. Of course, there is also the call from Mr Himmelbauer. We should now decide the law as quickly as possible and then make sure that it is implemented as quickly as possible, because of course we all have a strong interest in enabling our young graduates from higher schools to be able to qualify for this qualification quickly. I myself worked internationally for many years and have really been able to convince me how our training is in the international comparison. I can only say that I was very busy traveling in Germany, and our HTL engineers don't have to hide. What we're learning here, and the qualifications we've achieved here in schools, that's really something that can be seen. This is similar to academic training in other countries. That is why I am pleased that we are finally creating this framework so that this accounting can be made possible. I also hope that we will receive broad support for this. Another indication is that the question has been raised as to whether it is still attractive to attract teachers for these schools: I can tell from my personal experience – I come from a large group – that I have time and again colleagues who choose this path. That is to say, it should not be so unattractive to take this course. I am also pleased that we have really good colleagues who choose this path, because we need, of course, and you are absolutely right, the best in training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15727	Mr Huainigg has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15751	Mr President. Minister! High house! Today, we are adopting the National Qualifications Framework, which sets quality standards and makes qualifications comparable across Europe in order to promote mobility and higher quality in schools. I warmly welcome you at the Sabrina and Dominik Gallery, two editors of the inclusive teaching editorial at the “Kurier”, who are self-educated and who work in the Kurier and create a new news app in an easy-to-understand language, which the Minister has already presented and which promotes the Ministry of Education. I think this is very important, because what is part of the qualification that is very important? The ability to understand how politics works, what we do, how laws are created – which is also the basis for participating in and participating in democracy. For this, messages in easy-to-understand language are very useful, because you can also easily download the app on your mobile phone. As school inclusion has also been discussed, I would like to take a brief look at Mr Lugar's comments. It is also important from my personal experience that you have the opportunity to become a disabled person in the regular school. That's vital. Talk not only to parents, but also to people with disabilities, to people with learning disabilities! – They always say “spiritually disabled” people. This is also discriminatory and obsolete. – For example, talk to the teaching editors of the “Kurier” who are present today! Benefits You see this opportunity and see how crucial it was for your life! In joint teaching, one also receives skills that the economy needs, such as team ability and independent content development. These are skills that are increasingly required and benefited from their mediation, the disabled and also the unimpeded child. To that end, I also welcome the development set out in the National Action Plan, that we have model regions for the inclusive school, which we want to evaluate and develop by 2020. Inclusion is also in the sense of human dignity, a human dignity, which should also be enshrined in the Constitution. And perhaps even on the news app, sometime in an easy-to-understand form, it will be possible to read that human dignity is now also in our constitution. I'd like to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15791	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15812	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests at the gallery! What, then, is this great paradigm change, the change that the National Qualifications Framework entails? Today, it has often been mentioned that there will be a great change – and this is particularly true of thought – in that, whether one acquires skills in the profession, at school, at the university or in further education, it is less about where and how to learn something, but rather about how personal knowledge, skills and skills are acquired and how well-founded these competences are. What really matters is So less time spent in educational institutions, but rather the field of learning, the learning outcomes that have been addressed several times today. This is a huge area that will change with the National Qualifications Framework. We thus create more international comparability. I believe that this is a very important step for dual vocational training in Austria. This is a question of the visibility of this essential area. Our skilled workers, the entire area of apprentices, the teaching, the craftsmanship are very, very, very clearly upgraded. And this is a very important step for the future, because it is also possible to answer questions such as these qualifications, from compulsory schooling to the completion of the HTL, to training and further training in the field of vocational education and training, to be included and classified internationally. The National Qualifications Framework will cover a total of eight stages – we have already heard it – starting with compulsory schooling up to the doctoral degree, and will also specifically evaluate the professional qualifications accordingly and also recognise worthy and recognised. What I personally think is very positive is precisely this area of informal learning in relation to qualifications. This is about life experience and professional experience, namely all that one acquires in the context of professional activity, but also in the commitment to associations, in social institutions, to make these skills and competences visible. This is a very essential point which we want to address with the NQF in the future, an essential point that we are also deciding on today. I believe that the simplest thing to do in order to assess this framework together is to let those Members and colleagues who will not vote for it today. I would therefore like to make three words again. Mr Wurm said today: “a meaningful story. ” Mr Walser said: This is long “overdue”, the international comparability is “exhaustive”. And Mr Maurer said: “Principally positive”. I can, of course, join this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15861	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1007 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to vote for this bill to be a sign of this kind. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft law at third reading too, to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues on German classes for students without sufficient knowledge of the language of teaching. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Lugar, colleagues on the freedom of choice between special schools and integrative measures. Who's calling for it? – This, in turn, is the minority. This request is also rejected. [[11:58:22]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment 1527/A(E) by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues on self-defense courses in the field of gymnastics (1008 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15955	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs Steger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15982	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What's so beautiful? “A balanced person is one who can make the same mistake twice without becoming nervous.” – Dear colleagues from SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens, in your ranks there really must be many extremely balanced people, because you do not make the same mistake for the first or the second time, you already make it for the thousandth time. Once again, the FPÖ makes a request to address the concerns and needs of the Austrian population, and once again, as we have heard in the Committee, you are grappling with the idea of racism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And, of course, people are tired of it. People are tired of being so shameless about them and their interests. Almost every day you can read about terrifying and cruel acts of violence, attacks, sexual assaults, and, of course, this creates unrest, anxiety and even fear in the population, not only among women, but also especially among the parents who no longer trust in leaving their children alone on the street. Of course, this also ensures an extreme increase in arms sales. In 2014, we still had 91,000 weapons owners in Austria, and now we have reached an incredible 270 000 – and nobody wants them to ever use them. However, this also provides for other developments. For example, it leads to numerous enrollments in expensive self-defense courses, which many poor people cannot afford. For this very reason, we demand age-adequate self-defense courses within the framework of gymnastics, so that every child learns how to deal with such danger situations and how to get out quickly. Whether one can afford such courses should not depend on how much parents deserve. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As has been said, everything that is happening in this way should be said to be an understandable and debateable demand. In the case of red, black, green and NEOS, which will reject this request, we do not see it that way. But I am still partly confident. Do you know why I am? – This application will be included in a long list of applications, where the same scheme always runs: First of all, there is a social problem that causes legitimate concern for the Austrian population. Next it is addressed by the FPÖ, and FPÖ offers solutions. [[Call to the Greens: Then comes the racism of the FPÖ!]] Next, it is ignored by red and black – and also by the greens – and denied and beautifully spoken. But this does not solve the problem. The problem is ignored until it's so big that you can't ignore it anymore. That's exactly when Federal Minister comes across and plays blue copier. He takes over our demands and then sells them as his. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then there's only a lack of SPÖ. At two to three years' delay, our original demand will then be implemented somehow, unfortunately much too late and not right, and most of the time only to the shadow. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has happened in the border fence, at the upper limit and in the design of military aircraft. The export of family benefits will be next, and it will continue so. [[Abg. New builder: Incredible hetze!]] The FPÖ had the right position from the beginning. All over you have responded for months, with anti-foreign yells for many years, and then at the end of the day you have turned back. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same will happen with this proposal again. They will once again confirm that the liberals are the only ones who do not want to manipulate the population but to protect it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] Let us first abstract from the events of the last weeks and months: Even if there had been no such incident, if it had nothing to do with it, it would be a sensible measure. Do you know why? First of all, it is generally right and good to teach our children how to deal with such danger situations and how to get out quickly. Secondly, it would also be beneficial if your mogel pack of the daily turn hour would finally be filled in with meaningful content. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there are many more reasons for this. I'm not starting to talk about health, self-confidence, character formation and much more. You know that so much speaks for it, and you can't deny it. That's why we're doing you a favor now. After all, they did not present any content in the Committee against the claim, but they have been transferred to the FPÖ vaccination as a result of the formulation. You have taken this as the reason for your rejection. [[Call the Greens: No!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You weren't there at all!]] That is why we are now making the same request again in a different form: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dear colleagues from SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, self-defense courses in gymnastics are a simple and targeted immediate measure that would not only calm parents a little, but also ensure that not only children from rich parents can learn this ability. You now have the opportunity to prove that it is not just about reviling the FPÖ, but about actually acting in the interests of the Austrian population. Unfortunately, you will again be the first.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16131	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Steger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16183	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16205	Mr Neubauer! The question is: Where do you actually see these “unbelievable hetzes” you have addressed in your call? [[Abg. Lugar: Everywhere!]] [[Abg. Neubauer:... should now be Mr. Faymann the Hetzer!]] – You only respond to the fact that we have kept the mirror in the committee. We have shown you how to conduct policies. You react to such a thing very painful and sensitive. That's it. What are you doing? – You take a real-life problem. I told you this in committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] The real problem is that in Europe every fifth woman makes the experience of sexual assaults or violence sometime in her life. That's not all right, and yes, you have to fight against it. [[Abg. New builder: Is this your great knowledge of the day?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] The problem is not that a population group bears responsibility for it. No, we all have responsibility for it. Many of these cases happen in the family. It's not all right for us to impoverish sexual, verbal or other violence against children. That's what it's all about. [[Abg. Darmann: Do you have a child?]] We also need to look where there is violence in the family. They now take this problem – violence against children, women, young people – and write a request and say: We also know who's to blame. We take 19 examples, mostly from Germany, and say: Now we've finally found those who are guilty. - Every fifth woman should be affected. Many cases happen, as said, in the family sector, but you say: These are asylum seekers, foreigners, people with migration backgrounds. – This is how politics works. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Steger: But you didn't listen to me!]] Then go and say that you also have the solution. In addition to being so social and thinking only of those who can't afford it, I have to tell you the following. I drove a young woman on the train yesterday. She said: Really, that's in the application? I had this in gymnastics 15 years ago. Many schools offer this anyway. There are many gymnasiums that offer self-defense courses cost-effective to everyone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] [[Abg. Steger: And they are overcrowded!]] That is, the possibility of doing something in this direction is perfect. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, it's all great!]] It is important for you to be afraid – and you have proved this with this request again. You have correctly pointed out that you are very successful with this. Only one thing I have to say: Whoever believes that more weapons in private ownership mean more security is perfectly in addition. [[Abg. Steger: Have you listened?! Apparently not!]] More private weapons will inevitably lead to more deaths instead of more security. That's what you're doing with your policy... [[Abg. Steger: Did you listen?]] – I listened, and it would be very good if you listened. [[New call of the abg. Steger.]] Mrs. Steger, I know, but you're doing a lot of things about people being scared. [[Abg. Steger: What did I say?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You don't notice these fears. They take the fears, work and play politically with them. You're instigating these fears, but you won't find a solution. They do nothing to help policy find solutions instead of just looking for the guilty. You're doing this very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16410	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16433	I think the discussion goes a little in the wrong direction. There are human rights. But now I am not referring to the refugees who are supposed to have the right to come to Austria and settle down here, no matter what we say. I am referring to a real human right, namely the right to integrity. This right has every Austrian. All children also have this right. Anyone who lives in Austria has the right to integrity. The question raised in this discussion is: Who ensures that this right is respected? – One of them says that since the state does not do this, you have to get into that vacuum and do it yourself. That means: Self-defense, pepper spray, weapons and so on. The others say: If the state is unable to guarantee this right of integrity for its citizens, what do we need the state for? What are we paying our taxes for? – Has anyone ever thought about why you pay incredibly many taxes if the state is not able to guarantee the substantial right to the integrity of everyone? Of course, self-defense is good. I made judo myself for 25 years. I led self-defense courses myself. I can tell you one thing: It doesn't make sense at all if we make small Kung-Fu-Pandas out of our children, who can then defend themselves against refugee hordes or anyone else. I might be able to defend myself if three, four Moroccans hit me. I don't want to. I have no desire at all to defend myself, because the state has the right thing to do. We pay taxes so that the state can take care of our security. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At the station in Linz, for example, the police have already given up. There it will be for every woman and for all the commuters to get from one end to the other. That's what I'm asking myself: What world do we live in? Do we have to buy pepper sprays and make any other upgrades to compensate for that? I am, of course, for self-defense courses for children. I'm also for first-aid courses. Of course you have to learn for life. Of course, children need to learn how to behave in a situation where their own integrity and perhaps even life is threatened. Of course you have to learn that. That's what I'm for. But it is not about what you put in space from the social democratic half of the empire. It's not about training small black-belt-kung-fu fighters. This is also impossible in gymnastics. I think that this request is very useful, because it is a vacuum there. The state has given up in many areas, and now the citizen has to compensate for it. I had a very traumatic experience a few years ago. My house, then still in Sooß, has been broken in. Unfortunately, I surprised the burglar, and it came to a handful where my wife and I were injured. Then, when I finished the entire run, the police offered me a consultation. It was about how I can secure my house all around, how I can shed the windows, secure the doors, and so on. I took a lot of money to do that back then. Only after that did the thought come to me that I was living in a wrong world. Instead of doing something to prevent this kind of effect, the state is urging citizens to be quelled, to finally live in a cage, and to spend a lot of money on it. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] That's exactly the problem I'm addressing. The problem is that the state, on the one hand, wants an incredible amount of money from us in so many areas, but on the other hand does not fulfil the substantial tasks. [[Abg. Höfinger: The comparison is a blackhead!]] Dear friends of the ÖVP, you should think about whether that's exactly what we want! Do we really want the right to integrity to the citizens who outsource small children in schools? Do we want to teach the children everything possible so that they can defend themselves in these situations? Or do we want to ensure justice and order? This includes guarding the boundaries. This means that the 92 000 submarines that are illegal in Austria are finally taken out of the country – we will talk about it today. This includes not simply giving up individual regions on the part of the police. There are also some such regions in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] How can it be that the police give up some regions and then a normal citizen is recommended not to go there? There is also such a road in Vienna: When you put your car there and it's stolen, the police ask you at the ad why you put the car there, because you know that the car is most likely stolen there. That's really weird, and that's why we should do some things! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16488	Mrs. Dr.ck has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16509	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Ministra! Ladies and gentlemen. In principle, it is important for young people to be able to defend themselves in emergency situations when words are no longer sufficient. However, this first request from the FPÖ was again a special-class alien bashing. Mr. Lugar, you've made it clear that the state cannot fulfil its tasks. Austria is still one of the safest countries in the world. We're not São Paulo or somewhere else. [[Call the FPÖ:Not yet!]] [[Abg. Lugar: You're working on how we're going to be!]] Look You're looking at the new criminal statistics! The number of crime crimes has fallen dramatically in 2015. I would like to follow up with my colleague, Mr Jank. She pointed out in the Committee that we cannot address every social challenge to schools. I can only agree with her. Unfortunately, the FPÖ is a bit delayed. In the context of school autonomy, schools can already conduct self-defense courses, and many do. They do this in gymnastics, they do it at sports weeks. In Upper Austria, school partnership and school autonomy work in this field. That is why we also reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16554	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16576	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To want to introduce self-defense courses in the context of gymnastics is a perfectly correct approach. Mr Vogl, I think you have unfortunately not fully recognized the problem. Mr Klubobmann spoke correctly: The state has the duty to protect the people of our country. That is out of question. They pay high taxes and taxes for this. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, look at what's happening lately! The number of attacks, especially on children and young people, has increased enormously. This is not all right, but very worrying. If children and young people in our country are no longer safe – whether in schools, playgrounds, swimming pools and so on – then something has to be done. That is why this proposal is perfectly correct. This is a completely right approach and a right step. Ladies and gentlemen, the good advice we have repeatedly heard from the good people, such as keeping an arm's length distance, is not enough to protect our young people, our children and, above all, women from these gangsters. When you look at the whole development, you have to say: These attacks, especially on children and women, have increased dramatically with this unscrupulous immigration. That is out of question. Therefore, this request that self-defense courses should take place in the context of gymnastics is perfectly correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16615	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16636	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, there are problems in our Republic. We need to react to that. There is also the problem of sexual assaults on children and on women. We have the task of dealing with it objectively. If you do this, when you get the statistics, you come to a sad conclusion that 80 percent of the actions take place within the family or the circle of acquaintances. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! That is what we should refer to. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Also!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] We should also be wary of harmonizing sexual assaults that have unfortunately been seen in your group. Who voted against the so-called po-gross paragraph? Who has acted against it? [[Abg. Lugar: Now it's coming! That's ridiculous!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Effective prevention for women, for children, means economic independence and social balance. This means that women's homes are also built and women's access is possible. Who's against it everywhere? I just Googleed the theme and found a variety of hits. It goes everywhere in the same direction. The interesting thing is: If you enter “sexual offenses” and so on, the FPÖ is relatively often engaged in “ex-FPÖ municipality, vice-bourgeois champion in Steinhaus (...) – legally condemned for sexual abuse of unmistakables”, “FPÖ replacement country member and municipal councillor in Kufstein – legally condemned (...)”, “FPÖ local party leader of Eisenstadt – condemned for possession and transfer of child pornography”, child pornography in the Linz Club, and so on. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Neubauer]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I could keep it going. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Steger.]] It's a problem. By the way, I also found: “Strache – I too was sexually harassed.” [[The speaker holds an expression in height.]] I hope he's recovered from his shock. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] [[Abg. New builder: If the FPÖ boss is harassed, is that ridiculous for you?]] It's a problem. But please look in your own rows so that we can move on one step further! [[Call to the FPÖ:... substantive debate, Mr. Cot!]] You have by far the largest quota. I don't know anyone from other parties. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You have a colleague sitting there who has been massively criticized for sexual assaults and now smiles and shakes his head. They know exactly what it's all about. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take the problem seriously, let's pick it up at the root, but let's not put any more oil in the fire there! [[Interlocutors Darmann and Walter Rosenkranz.]] Mr Rosenkranz, your request was purely racist. They have not listed any FPÖ convicts there. They mentioned exclusively immigrants – men only – and that is what we turn to. [[Abg. Hagen: Col. Walser, talk to your son once...!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Talk to the population once!]] Who comes out to give the first speech? – The colleague Steger, the gentle voice of the FPÖ. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Steger, you will be amazed: As you have tabled the request, we will vote in favour of Greens. Yes, of course, we will agree to this request. I would like to congratulate you on the fact that, after severe criticism, you have also recognised the Greens in the Committee: This is not the case, and you are now making the same request, but now you are abandoning racist remarks. I congratulate you on this success in learning. I hope that the Committee's deliberations will continue to have similar effects on the FPÖ in the future, and we will certainly take a significant step forward. [[Abg. Darmann:... Principal Teacher...!]] [[Abg. Steger:... agree!]] As a former school director, I can assure you that I have engaged gymnasium teachers, for example at my school, who have long carried out what you demand. Everything you demand is possible now. [[Abg. Steger: Individuals! Singles!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We are for self-defense courses, that is no question at all. If you simply abandon racism in the future, you will also receive green consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16876	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16897	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! On the topic of self-defense and gymnastics: The safety of the population must be ensured by appropriate legislation. The difference between the cultures regarding the position of women in relation to refugee problems has led to countless attacks on our female population in the recent past and is to be condemned. Such incidents are not acceptable and demand countermeasures, as well as a harsh and dissuasive punishment of the perpetrators. The possibility of introducing self-defense courses in the context of gymnastics is in principle a contribution to self-protection. However, it should be borne in mind that potential perpetrators could also be trained at tax costs in such requested local combat courses, since the addition of the perpetrators in the current application shows no small number of young school-based foreigners. In my opinion, it would be more useful to offer such courses at tax costs depending on income, but on a voluntary basis and exclusively for girls and women. Prevention is urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16929	Next speaker: Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16951	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I have now followed this debate closely and I am somewhat shocked at the way in which some of this debate is being discussed on such a serious subject. Mr Steger, if you say that you take up the fears and concerns of the population, I say: That may be right, but the problem – and that is what we criticize – is that you take up the fears and you also cheer them up with your requests. [[Abg. Neubauer:... don't talk about it?]] If one looks at this request made in writing, then it is very clearly argued with a whole list of attacks that have supposedly been committed by retiring people. [[Abg. New builder: Not supposed to be!]] If you're with Mr. Ing. If you've been watching Vogl, you may have heard that the great majority of sexual assaults take place at home or in the immediate environment of the person – and that was before the flow of refugees, and that's what's happening now. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Ah, that's why you're going to crush the family, now I have the logic!]] The problem is: A sexual assault is a sexual assault – whoever does it – and it is hard to suspect. I hope we have a consensus in this House. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also ask you to consider the following: It's always supposed to be stuffed in school. [[Abg. Steger: Not everything, but that's important!]] Talk to the educators, talk to the directors! First: There are already numerous initiatives that offer school self-defense courses. It is possible to do this at school in gymnastics, which is already being done. I asked myself – because of the argument that they were so expensive –: In Salzburg City, for example, there is an initiative that is very successful in schools, where for 3 € a self-retaining course can be carried out. This is good, and we should continue to promote and support it. I do not think that a general rule, which is included in gymnastics, makes sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17032	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17053	I just listened to Mr Walser's speech and therefore had to go back to the speaker's desk. Did you really mean this seriously, Mr Walser, that if Mr Strache tells himself that he was sexually harassed at the age of 14 or 15 you are making fun of this, and only because it seems to be completely harmless when men are sexually harassed, which is not the case with women?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Steger: Yes!]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hagen, at FPÖ and Abg. Hable.]] So I'd really wonder if you'd see it so relaxed, Mr. Walser, when you're sitting in the sauna, and then from left and right, you're finally sexually harassing two two-metre beatings? Do you think that's funny and then joke about whether you've recovered from it? Because sexual harassment – whether it happens to a woman or a man, whether a child or an adult – is always a bad thing. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] I don't know if you've experienced that before, but I think everyone can rely on experiences, and that's why we really have to take it seriously. [[Abg. Darmann: Judge yourself...!]] As regards the argument that we have nothing to do with rape because most rapes take place in the environment of the family or in the community of acquaintances: So don't be angry with me, you don't have to do anything about sexual assaults in children, because even there most of them happen in the family circle – but not all, and that's why I would really ask that we take all those measures that we can take. [[Abg. Maurer: Can you listen?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] [[Call: That doesn't mean to do nothing...]] We can best take such measures if – and this is also visible – Moroccan bands roam around at any railway stations and anyone who comes by, insults, harasss or perhaps even needs sex, then the state can intervene there and should do so. That's what it's all about! It is about that we do not just look at it, but look at it and become active, and you do not want it, because your ideology tells you – at the ÖVP not so strong, mainly in the Greens and at the SPÖ –: A foreigner is in principle good once, and if he makes sexual assaults or anything else, he is so traumatized that he can't do otherwise at all. It's a fool. [[Abg. Schwentner: A human being is a human being, no matter where he comes from – you have never understood that!]] Finally, it is about protecting our citizens. Whether these are men or women, the citizens must be protected, the state is there, and if the state is not ready to do so, then it will really be time for us to get a new government and, above all, a new Minister of the Interior who does not look away, but does what we expect from her, namely to protect us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17162	Mrs Maurer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17183	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated and less valued colleagues! This debate, which has repeatedly occupied us last week, naturally affects me as a feminist, when I see who suddenly recognizes the need for women to be protected from sexual assaults, from sexual violence. The FPÖ is now making a request and pretending to be the protector of women, of course only for a racist reason. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Not just the women! Protecting is not just a matter of women!]] – Mr Rosenkranz, let us take a look at the following: What is the FPÖ doing about women's protection? What's the FPÖ doing? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The FPÖ, for example, says: Women's houses destroy families. The FPÖ was opposed to the intensification of the so-called po-gross paragraph. [[Abg. Kickl:... black-and-white, fine differentiation...!]] Mrs. Steger, how do you see that? Is it possible for you to claim that you are working for women, and at the same time the FPÖ proves, on all other occasions, that it opposes women – every time again? [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Did you...? It's incredible!]] But, Mrs Steger and colleagues of the FPÖ, you can prove today that it is indeed a serious concern to you, because you could actually agree to a request for the protection of women and children from sexualised violence. [[Abg. Kickl: I always wonder how you can be a women's rights activist in a party that...!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We will look at the way FPÖ agrees with this request, and we will see how serious its commitment to protecting women and children from sexual violence is. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Please go!]] I would like to add another point: Clean up once in your own rows! What kind of reproach we, the Green Members, and women in general, have to expect from your ranks and your surroundings is really the last-class thing to do! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Look at the problems...!]] For example, Mr Höbart's father insulted me and Mr Korun as sluts. – Is this an adequate way of dealing with women? [[Abg. Höbart: Who?- Oh, my God!]] – I have a screenshot with you, I can show you that. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We'll see how you'll vote. They are about racism and certainly not about the protection of women.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17365	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Maurer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17435	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... Van der Bellen had to flee...!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Unheard of claim!]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Do you want to listen to your speaker from your own ranks now? [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. New builder:... claim!]] – This claim is not verifiable by me. Please, Mr Mölzer.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17511	Mr President. Minister! High house! The emotions are going up. From my point of view, this shows only one thing, namely that you – especially in the left half of the plenary room – can go out the arguments and you can only work more with emotions because you are struggling to argue. In my opinion, we are currently experiencing, and this is undisputed, a more or less uncontrolled migration of people, which is rolling over Austria and Europe, and which unfortunately brings with it many unpleasant experiences of God and, unfortunately, problems that we have anyway – and this is no question that in Europe, even in Austria, there is a great deal of violence against women, against children, against weakness, which we must fight – is intensifying or strengthening. This shows at least the various reports of the last months that we have allowed ourselves to list in this request as an occasion, which does not mean that we make a group of people responsible for all violence. I would like to say this very clearly. However, if you argue with different angles or distortions of the facts, it seems to me as if you are really trying to dissuade these contexts. But they are there, the links between this mass migration, which we are experiencing, and an increase in violence – whether it be sexual, whether it be predatory theft or the like. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Their arguments remind me personally of the tobacco industry, when it is constantly trying to explain that it is not proven that smoking is harmful, and is trying to distort everything and make a corresponding mockery of those who put it to the point – in the case of us, the FPÖ. That can't really be true! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For us liberals, and this has been said several times today, it is unfortunately a command of God in this case that we demand this self-defense teaching at schools, because it is obvious that the state power, the state, is failing when it comes to protecting its citizens. To be honest: I too am a little unwell in helping my children, the women and the weak, so to speak, to help themselves. I too would rather, as Mr Lugar said earlier, if the police could guarantee this security. I understand very well, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ, why you could not agree to this request in committee: because it would, of course, be something like a revelation that your government has failed when it comes to ensuring safety on our roads. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that, ladies and gentlemen, what the Greens are doing is white cynicism and truly a mockery on the back of the victims of violence, no matter who committed these acts of violence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] These are distortions that are really sad. In the Committee, Mrs Waller – I can remember – you have tried to relativize the Cologne incidents of New Year's Eve, and have acted there as if they were not asylum seekers at all. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Maurer, Mr Walser and Mr Korun.]] Stand yesterday, 23. Feber, Cologne Public Prosecutor's Office: Against 75 people is determined according to 1 100 ads, and the majority – says the Cologne Public Prosecutor’s Office – are asylum seekers, illegal immigrants, such with asylum status. [[Calls to the Greens.]] So your claims are simply not true. Stop twisting the facts all the time! If you name things, people will also be able to overcome their fears. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Stop – and I am speaking to the government now – to make smearing parties with ceilings and the like. Fight the problems at the roots and close the boundaries. Push They have become subject to a consistent sentence of asylum seekers or immigrants, and we will not need such requests either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17612	Mrs Maurer spoke in favour of an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17636	I'm actually correcting: I did not relativize the events in Cologne in the Committee, but I listed the facts, namely that, unlike your claims, the 58 men arrested were three new asylum seekers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17682	I now come to the floor, Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17703	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, now we have heard the actual correction: When Green Statistics are conducted by the criminals, they distinguish whether it is an asylum seekers old or new or medium or future or otherwise. – I congratulate you on this fine, differentiated consideration because otherwise we have no other problems, thank God. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Mr. El Habbassi, you have rightly pointed out that the family is actually a place for assaults. That's bad enough, but now I'm actually aware of the logic – in some parties it was always clear to me, but now also to yours as the former family party –: Now I know why it is necessary to crush the family, so that there are no more attacks and no more violence. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That means that the crime scene finally falls away. So, of course, it's very interesting that you have to deal with problems in such a way as to be able to press for approval. [[Abg. Shit helmet: Go, please!]] Next argument: Actually, the problem does not exist, because I know a school in some place that has already done something successfully in the context of autonomy. Thank you very much, you have provided me with the material for the next question to the Federal Minister, who will tell me by school types and by federal states which schools are already taking such measures in the context of gymnastics. We will then put this data in relation and then we will see where and how in you the world is all right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know enough schools where this is not happening. Our request was also meant to lead these schools to implement this idea, which one might have had in one school or another, as well. There are schools with excellent school directors and excellent teachers who do something like this, but there are also other school directors who – thank God! – now we are no longer working there, even there we have heard of an example. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steger and Mr Schimanek.]] Mrs Maurer said: The FPÖ is now working with this proposal, and that is completely away from the role, at last in favour of women's protection. – Mr Maurer, we are not just talking about women’s protection, for us the population is a little bigger. This is about children of both sexes, and it is not about the fact that only women are harassed. We're all about every victim. In fact, we have a different approach than looking at women, our approach goes on. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] You have blamed the application for racism and hetze – once again, that is your standard vocabulary, otherwise it never goes –: [[Abg. Maurer:... name!]] Yes, it hurts when we quote headlines, headlines, reports of these whole, under quotation marks, “hetzeric organs”, the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, the “ORF”, the “crone”, from which we quoted all of this. Where's the press council's call? It was nothing! It is the journalistic replay of reality before which you close your eyes – deliberately shut down, because negligently it is not what you believe in our people with your thinking. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] But it's lauter in view: Even the Pilz colleague now realizes that your journey leads in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17811	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17832	Mr President. High house! I would just like to remind you that next year we are introducing 20 years of law on violence in Austria, with some novelties and improvements, because we are constantly working to improve the protection of victims from violence. And just recently – and this has been mentioned a few times – it has also succeeded in anchoring what some have not taken so seriously now also criminally, namely that sexual harassment is expanded. If you objectively remember – without now having these black and white representations in your mind – it was so that it was often and on many occasions smiled that you take unwanted contacts into the criminal law. I am glad that we have these laws in Austria. I will meet the German Minister of Women soon because of the condemnable incidents in Cologne, and I think that the laws that are not yet as far as ours are, will be tightened there. It is absolutely no matter where perpetrators come from, what background, which ethnic origin they have, it simply belongs to everything equally suspected when offenses happen. I would therefore like to allow myself, as Minister of Women, to say the following: We have incredibly good anti-violence laws, which are also imitated in many places, and other countries adopt our rules. We have also called on the so-called Istanbul Convention, the Council of Europe, to instrumentalise and ratify a legally binding instrument for the protection of violence. That's what we did. We have also set up a lot of things here, a very big campaign to “violence FREE life” where one has gone to schools where incrediblely many information events have taken place, where now a guide to hospitals that are often the first point of contact is how to deal with victims of violence. There's a lot going on in this area. Nevertheless, the number of victims is rising, not just now – not now! – but year after year, that is, violence against women and children. With 97 percent of female victims of violence as women's minister, allow me to take my stand for this party. It is true that the awareness increases that one knows that there is help that can be used. We have more than 100 women's counseling facilities, we have non-violent facilities available in every federal state. These laws were then installed under the motto “whoever beats, who goes” and the institutions that immediately operate when violent perpetrators are rejected from the homes are well equipped to this day, financed by the Minister of the Interior and by me 50 : 50. And I could add a lot of things: a help line that can be accessed and called for free for 365 days a year 24 hours a day. And in our schools – it has also been said several times: from the kindergartens I am not responsible for at all – there are conflict resolution projects in which children learn to demarcate where they To start feeling your own physicality and not to deal carelessly with it when someone offers them. This continues in schools. I am deeply convinced that many dedicated educators – but also associations – offer these courses in our schools as part of the movement and sports units, but also beyond the commitment of the gymnastic colleagues. I believe that we really should not paint black-and-white here, take the protection of violence seriously, and now should not polarize for events that are, of course, absolutely to be condemned. But I would ask you to have equal treatment done here as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17896	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 1008 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Debates of the European Parliament Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. [[12:45:03]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 1090/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues on the facilitation of human autonomy for all school locations and the abolition of teacher service law (1009 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17969	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr. Klubobmann's speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17996	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! Dear education enthusiasts! We NEOS have put forward a proposal that teachers should be respected more in their profession as experts than before, i.e. to release them more into freedom, thereby also bringing them into responsibility. This is an international model. You will then hear in the debate that NEOS is pursuing a Hire-and-Fire policy and very evil things at all. The fact is that what we are calling for here is, for example, the educational line of social democrats in many European countries. That's nothing bad! You can discuss it, you can like it or not, you can think it useful or not. But please, in more Follow in all discussions of any ideological abbreviations or fixations, diffamations, distance. Our proposal is that we should actually appoint teachers at schools or at the support organisations within the framework of our autonomy model, which means that the selection and management of staff and also the development of staff are of course taken place there. And yes, there's a confession from NEOS: The 5 percent of teachers who have landed wrong in this profession should also be able to quit. This is the case in any other profession of this Republic. They don't want to be operated on by a doctor or a doctor who obviously can't do this or is very unhappy in the profession. And we shouldn't let such people operate on our children either. It is often the case that teachers find: Now I've had this job for five years, actually it's not mine, but it's only 35 years, I'm still going through that. And then there are very stressful conditions for the person concerned and also for the young people who are bent in these 35 years. We didn't get through with that. This is unimaginable in Austria, because it simply has no place in the heads somewhere. For the ÖVP, Mrs Brigitte Jank – she has just come – has stood down here several times and has said that she is for a full autonomy, also personnel. But when it comes to implementation, there is a lack of determination, courage, and then I fear that the OEAAB’s foot shackles will also come to bear. Unfortunately, the greens don't go that far, I don't know at the FPÖ. Indeed, it bears “freedom” on its behalf, but has no understanding of this proposal. I didn't expect it from the SPÖ, honestly, because I know she doesn't make it emotionally. But I just want to tell you – and that's serious –: This is a line of social-democratic parties in many countries of Europe, so it is not a devil witness. It's about a better school. And good school takes place where we have good teachers, and therefore the choice of teachers, teacher training and a competent leadership of teachers is particularly important to us. And I am with you that, of course, we also need a different training of directors. Being a teacher, being a teacher is an expert and expert career. We should strengthen them in this profession, in this professional understanding. And of course: School management is a management task. This is not respected, nor is it too little training, even because the teacher union is very happy with it that there is no leadership here. The teachers' union is the compensation manager in the Austrian school. She would be disturbed by her all-power claim if there were suddenly a school of self-responsibility here. As we do not get through with this request, we will come back with this concern: Once started from the left, started from the right, flew from the top, started from the bottom. We won't stop there! We're going to pursue the quaint school as our goal. Whoever wants to have a lot of people, he needs a lot of high school. Party policy must come out when ordering directors and teaching orders, and freedom and responsibility must be pure. As teachers and teachers are so important to us, I would also like to make a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution comes from Barcamp Education. We have not only invited NEOS friends in Parliament, but all those interested in education to work with us in three hours of content that we bring together here. We have also invited all other parties: This proposal is to be accepted. It is an important point that we also pay particular attention to social and emotional competence in the selection of teachers. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Being a teacher is the most important profession of this Republic. We give them the most important thing we have – our children – at least nine years, often 12 years, 13 years. We must hang this profession much higher in recognition, in training and in appreciation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18093	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18160	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18181	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This request, Mr Strolz, is a blow to the face of all teachers in Austria – I would like to express it clearly – when you try to remove the legal basis for teachers. This is very, very bad, because you, your group – and I would like to admit this to you – very often come up with very constructive proposals, such as those which enhance the professional image of teachers. But this request that you have tabled here today – already introduced in the committee – is in stark contradiction. Indeed, as you know, the law of the pedagogical service has only been subject to a complete reform two years ago, and it is now beginning to take hold of it. We are not going to hit in with the cue now and we are also in breach of the principle of protection of trust. [[Abg. Strolz: You can go on steps here! That doesn't have to be a culprit!]] – Even as you suggest, it would be a blow with the cue. We have a teacher service right, a modern teacher service right, which also meets the requirements it has to meet. And the personal autonomy you address is a central pillar of education reform, but not the principle – you have called it yourself – Hire and Fire. We don't want that! Personal autonomy means personnel development, but also accurate continuing and continuing training. Reform steps are already being taken in the basic training of teachers. It is especially important to support teachers daily in the performance of their educational tasks. But it does not mean the arbitrariness of the management and, above all, the constant uncertainty of the teachers. They have not deserved this, for they do great things every day when they accompany and strengthen the students entrusted to them on their educational path. And believe me, these tasks will certainly not be easier, and there the teachers need the best possible support that can be given to them – and that is what we give them. I would like to ask you to be really responsible in dealing with this and not to withdraw the legal basis of the teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18227	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18248	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Matthias Strolz, I think that this request you made is not legally feasible. [[Abg. Stroll: That's right we do, isn't it?]] The Austrian school system is regulated within the framework of the state administration. I mean, it's not bad up there, too. After all, we use the school to intervene in the rights of parents and children – limit their freedom as well. Therefore, the settlement in the administration of the High Authority is quite correct. What you want is a transition to labour law, which represents a completely different situation. There you can then talk in categories like a collective contract. Now, all those who work in the field of education are bound by the law and have in the implementation only those who give them the law. Of course, we are moving on. And, of course, I also understand that the opposition is constantly addressing and demanding what the government is already on the move – because then, of course, it will also be a lot of its own success when the implementation by the Federal Government is completed. The opposition can then argue: We have always pointed this out. Yeah, that's possible and usus. There is nothing against it either – this is parliamentarianism, that is democracy, and that is why it should be so. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the issue of autonomy is a central issue for me personally and also a very central issue of this educational reform. Yeah, school must have more autonomy. She needs more autonomy in human terms – I am full of your opinion. The headmaster must, according to my understanding, be obliged to choose his team – I emphasize, his team. However, I also believe that, of course, for some of the tasks that we want to carry out, we must also ensure that this responsibility can be taken over well-confidence that the education and training of teachers and teachers is also available. This is, of course, to be guaranteed. If we give schools those freedoms, as we have foreseen in the Council of Ministers' presentation, this is a crucial step towards the further development of our school system, the modernisation of the school system, and also the opening up of the school system, which I consider necessary and important. That's why I'm asking for a little patience. The Federal Government has set itself a very ambitious framework. I'm sure we'll keep him. And for the meantime: Please don't lose your nerves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18295	Mr Walser spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18316	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Matthias Strolz, I think with this request you just shoot beyond the goal. I understand the fundamental intensity. I also understand the displeasure over the current situation. I also understand that you really say, now the revolution has to come here. But what you're doing here in the High House today is neoliberalism pure. [[Abg. Stroll: Go, stop!]] What you're doing here today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Starting in the morning: The pension system is in ruins. - Please, where are we? We live in Austria, the pensions are safe, and we have to make reforms. [[Abg. Strolz: The Dutch Social Democrats are neoliberal?]] We have different ideas about how to go, but it's not in ruins. I am not satisfied with the situation in schools either, I also want to change here. But these cannot mean that teachers are now even more uncertain – in a situation in which we have reförmies and so-called reforms almost every month and over again, but all of them do not grasp what already leads to uncertainty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] What are the NEOS doing in this situation? – They come here and say: Everything overboard, any security away, no more teacher service, all private organizations! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I think the Van der Bellen gets more support from the NEOS than from the Greens!]] Matthias, we can't go through school reform. There's already a little more serious approach and not hyperactive introduction of law proposals, as you do. We don't want a ballast in the education sector. We want fundamental reforms. Where you're right with your criticism: The so-called teacher service law New is not one that points to the future. It is a right of service – I would call it old-fashioned – which is particularly far from reality. It is not an answer to the challenges of time. But now you have to work on it. You have to point out what's far from that reality. I say we have no answer in this teacher service right to all day school forms. We have to deal with this in concrete terms. We need to change that. I say that we have not even mentioned a central area at all, namely the situation of elementary pedagogists. – Yes, we have to put them in place, we have to include them in the teacher service law. That's why I prefer to talk about a pedagogical service right in principle – that's what we need. We still have an old-fashioned counting system of work after weekly hours. That no longer corresponds to reality in our schools. Let's go and make an annual work model so that teachers don't have to continue to blame themselves, they'll work so little – they don't do that – because much of their work is not counted. That's where we have to go! These are very specific indications of facts, given that I am saying: Yes to reforms, yes to changes, but no to a shackle through which we do not achieve our goal. We want – and there is also a lack of – equivalent training for all educators, from kindergarten to secondary level II. I would like to stress once again that this is clear: equal, not similar. Of course, a teacher who teaches between 14 and 18 years of age must have enjoyed a different education than an elementary teacher who has one to six years of age to care for and also has to teach in a certain form – because the kindergarten is the first state childcare facility. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But it is important to note something else: We need a commitment to a modern state school. We have been fighting for years for private schools to be equated with non-confessional private schools. But our main task is to put public schools in a situation that opens up opportunities for action similar to those given in private schools – this is not the case at present. To do this, we need a modern teacher service right that addresses the needs of teachers who enable schools to test, carry out and then change new forms of teaching without any legal complications. So our motto is: Reforms, yes, Kahlschlag no.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18405	Next item is the report by Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18426	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am full of you, Mr Strolz, when it comes to finding that we need more autonomy, and we are also one with all the experts – starting from the Bertelsmann Foundation – who say that good teaching begins with the right educators. What we need is more appreciation, more recognition for this profession and as many freedoms as possible so that the educators in this country can do what they have studied for, for which they went to school, namely to help young people develop, to teach them something and to train their personalities. But what we don't need is uncertainty. Mr Jank and Mr Walser have done this very well. Mr. Strolz, you're a systemic person. You come from the systemic thinking, in which it is important that you take one step after another. With this German Federal Government autonomy package, we have now taken the first step. Everything that has to do with human and service rights comes after that within the meaning of the principle of "form follows function" and must stand at the end of the process. I believe that we should not overpower the school apparatus now and that we should not incite all possible fears – for example before a Hire-and-Fire policy – and Anxious populist statements stimulate how they come from all sides. In particular, teachers in this country will no longer be able to focus on their work, but would be constantly concerned with the question of which new horrors – from their point of view – will come back to them from politics. I do not want to support that. We say yes to a healthy development of our education system. And – always keep that in mind! – let’s give the educators the appreciation they deserve! This is one of the most important professional groups in this country; it will shape our future significantly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18462	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18484	It was interesting now to hear the arguments of the ÖVP against the abolition of teacher service law. A common teacher's right would supposedly bring more recognition. How that goes is a mystery where you have no room to recognize individual achievements. – But maybe you have an idea? Or: More freedom would bring it. – This too is something strange, because where is freedom when you throw everyone into a pot? But above all, one does not want any uncertainty. – Of course, one does not want uncertainty when it comes to keeping everything as it is. If you were to abolish teacher service law – you mentioned that too – you could suddenly release teachers, that is, in German: quit what would lead to it – how did you say it? – that teachers would no longer be able to concentrate on teaching because they would be threatened with permanent release and termination. – If that were the case, 90 percent of workers in Austria would not be able to concentrate permanently because they are all at risk of termination if they do not perform their services. That's the point. That means: If you abolish teacher service law and go into free contracts – as they are common in other areas, including private schools – the director would finally have the opportunity to pay teachers for performance and not according to the scheme you, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, submit to him. That's exactly the problem we have. And also the greens – who are supposed to know better what is necessary for teachers and for people on the ground – are on this wave, because one does not trust the people on the ground to decide for themselves. One does not trust the director to know what a teacher has to earn, but wants to dictate it from above. For the Greens, this is an ideological approach, because of course they are afraid. As soon as you can't control this, of course you can't indoctrinate ideologically, what the Greens like to do. In the case of Mrs Minister, it is simply a driving force, which, of course, always comes to fruition when one can influence a large group. There are over 100,000 people who can be waded if they are dominated from above. You don't want to give up, and that's the problem. That's why I'm saying: We need to go one step further, we need private schools for everyone. This means that people can actually choose whether to give their child to a private school or to a public school. Then we do not need a teacher's right, but free contracts on the ground, because the directors know best what is good for the students and for the success on the ground. We no longer need politics, at least not in schools. It can then draw on what it is for, namely to provide a rough framework and to explain to the schools what we want from them. That would be my vision for a modern school – and not what you do here. Finally, you are walling and just trying to get what has not proved to be the case in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18535	I call Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18556	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In order to explain what I have already mentioned in my speech, namely, how a modern teacher service right should look like, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If we decide to do so, we would be an essential step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18602	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18718	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 1009 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues, on the consideration of social and emotional competence in training and selection procedures in relation to the "New Education of Teachers". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues on the annual model of the teacher's working time. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[13:11:50]] 4. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the outcome of its collection of average incomes and the additional benefits for pensions for companies and institutions in the Federal Public Economy in 2013 and 2014 (2015/1) (III-223/1006 e.g.) 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the motion for a resolution 849/A(E) by Mr Wolfgang Zanger, colleagues, on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations from the Federal Republic of Germany report 2014/6 pp. of the pension right of the servants of the Austrian National Bank (985 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18809	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him. – Mr Hell is not in the hall right now. I therefore ask Mr Mag. Rossmann to the speaker's desk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18840	Mr President. High house! Yes, it is good that there are such income reports that constantly promote shocking and, in this case, when it comes to income and management in public enterprises. In 31 public enterprises, 74 Executive Boards are above the Federal Chancellor's salary. This amounts to approximately € 295 000 per year. And if we look at the increase in these Executive Boards in public enterprises, we can see that between 2011 and 2014 the increase amounted to 25.3 per cent, while for employees in these companies only 7.5 per cent of the increase, that is, there is clearly a scarcity here. The second point I would like to point out is that the differences in the wages of men and women are enormous. They are blasphemous. Women's income in the board of directors is only about 73 percent of men's salaries, tending to fall. Who are now the top riders among the big earners in public companies? This is Post AG, which is the board of Post AG. On average, their salaries are €1.6 million, which corresponds to the average content of directors in listed companies. The association AG with the board of directors of 1 million €, followed by ÖBB Holding with about €805,000 per year. They follow the ÖBIB, the Austrian Federal Forest AG and the like more. For example, the fact that the ÖBB Group does not approve an average increase of 25.3 percent is particularly in shame, but in the years 2011 to 2014 from 43.6 percent – in contrast to the employees whose salary increases in this period are only 10.9%. Let us now take a look at the 2014 income report, also from the Court of Auditors, where it concerns the salaries of the self-employed and the self-employed. What does the picture look like there? Between 1998 and 2013, the incomes of the lowest 10 percent net actually fell by 35 percent. So there we are not talking about increases of 25 or 45 percent, but there we are talking about real wage losses to an unbearable extent! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The same applies to the lower 25 percent, only it is not quite as blatant there. The loss of income of the lower 25 percent of self-employed workers is still 20 percent. This is simply and simply unbearable and insolent in comparison to what directors in public companies are taking on board powers. This injustice must be reversed urgently! And what are the ministers responsible, none of whom are present today? – You tolerate this! Mrs Steßl, Secretary of State, who has been in the Court of Auditors Committee, pointed out that there are public undertakings in competition. Let us take a look at the group of energy suppliers. In the case of energy suppliers, it is particularly blatant and certainly a fact that the managers operate there in an environment in which a de facto monopoly, a regulated market exists. There is probably no way of talking about competition there, and there is still Gagen – the Board of Directors in Verbund AG – from € 1 million on average per year. It should also be observed that one third of the extremely high management powers are concentrated in the field of energy suppliers. The Gagen are located in the top field. In the highest-paid sector, the proportion of women – which I would like to stress – is 2 per cent, i.e. there is a single woman in the board. In this area, however, there are also companies or daughters of Konsort AG, namely the Verbund Thermal Power GmbH, which has 1.3 staffed board members in the annual average, but not a single employee. These are simple and simply unbearable states. Equally unbearable is the fact that in the field of energy supply still the proportion of flowers drives, once red, once black, on the gangband of the countries. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] The negative list of the Board of Directors in the field of energy supply continued. One thing I would like to mention at the end, namely, large energy suppliers versus small ones. The gagen in the energy Burgenland are much higher than those in Energie AG in Upper Austria. - For what reason? Somebody's supposed to explain this to me. So far, no one has been able to explain what can only have the following consequences: These injustices must be halted, and the nameing-and-shaming in the Court of Auditors' income report alone is not enough. What we need in addition is, as is the case in listed companies, the mandatory reporting of all incomes, income components and Bonus payments to the Court of Auditors – not voluntary, but mandatory, so that transparency can finally be established here. Secondly, what is particularly important is that there is an area where one should at last discuss and have to discuss ceilings – ceilings! Here the O-Word is in demand, not with the war refugees! And the measuring bar for board ventures in public enterprises must and should be the chancellor's content. And that is not €1.6 million, but that is € 295 000 a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18934	Mr Hell has now come to speak. I can apologise to you, honourable Member, you have been in the hall at the last time. It was a mistake for the Presidency to overlook this. Please, Mr Hell.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18958	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Many points raised by Mr Rossmann have, of course, been very plausible and I also agree with them. The fact that the Court of Auditors, in its report, has dealt very closely with the situation of the board of directors and managing directors in the field of the public economy of the federal government, has inevitably led to many discussions also in the area of managers and manager salaries. I can also partly understand it when it is pointed out from the leadership levels that the bar is not a political income for this leadership level, but is precisely defined by the industry and the market. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors has noted: In 2014 31 companies and institutions paid 74 persons in the board of directors a full-time income above that of the head of government. And in 2011 it was 26 companies with 65 people, that is, a lot has moved up here. In recent years, the economy has only developed moderately, but – it has already been mentioned by Mr Rossmann – the incomes of the board of directors have nevertheless increased significantly. I am aware that large companies – and this is also the case in this report – need top management forces in order to successfully claim and operate on the market. However, we also need these top-ranking persons in the companies with employees, and it is therefore natural to question why the average income of directors and managers in these companies has on average increased by 15.3 percent over the period from 2011 to 2014, and for employees on average by only 7.5 percent. Workers contribute significantly to how a company develops, and they should also receive the financial contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is also not a positive development if, according to this Court of Auditors report, the pay gap between men and women is also continuing. The income of female board members and managing directors in 2014 averaged €161,000, which was 73 percent, and the average relation of male colleagues of €220 000 was not reached at Weitem. In 2012, the women in these companies still had 81.3 percent of the income of their male colleagues received financial compensation. Especially negative is the area of supervisory councils, where, for example, no single woman is represented in the supervisory councils in the field of health and social affairs. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of this report from the Court of Auditors, we see that there are still many measures needed to achieve justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19010	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please. [[Abg. Donate: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Bisserl what changed in the list?]] – I’ve been looking at it again, but really, yes!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19046	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have mentioned a lot. I also have to say a lot about this because there is really a lot to say on this issue. Once again, this report mercilessly shows that the scarcity between the poor and the rich, between managers and normal employees is far apart. The average income growth of managers increased significantly from 2011 to 2014 with 15.3 percent that of employees with 7.5 percent. This is clear from this report. This difference in the ÖBB is particularly acute at 43.6 percent to 10.9%. There is, therefore, a great need for action, and one may also have to look at the report, evaluate it, because we do not hear this report for the first time. We are always discussing these Court of Auditors reports, which are very good, and of course I would also like to thank the President at this point, but there are no consequences. And if one looks at the fact that the board members and directors on average deserve the fourfold of the employees, the regular staff, then this is also a circumstance that cannot be taken away. There are also changes to be made, and there is a need for change here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The report, ladies and gentlemen, is not surprising. Over the past few years, it has been identified, and developments are moving in the direction that the salary shears continue to disperse. And especially at close-to-state establishments, where you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, could also influence you, you could very well change something. Here, politics could change a little, alone: The will is missing. I only give one key word: top pensions at OeNB – €32,000 gross a month –, ladies and gentlemen, what do you say to your electorate? What do you say to those who can't heat? What do you say to them, the single-schoolers, if we're with the women you always want to protect here? There is 32 000 € gross per month. However, I do not want to go into this, because my colleague Waltraud Dietrich will then make a further speech. The Court of Auditors also found that the transmission of the data was problematic, because some of them were only sent charges, but the whole amount was not broken down by number of persons. And There are to be mentioned: the AGES, the AMA and surprisingly also ÖBB subsidiaries. Paradox can also be found when you look at the pay-as-you-go, and here the SPÖ MEPs are always looking so hard that they do so much, even in areas close to the state, even in the supervisory councils for women. That's all not right and it doesn't last when you light it up. In the private sector, pay-as-you-go is easy to combine, and in the public sector, it disperses. This is clear from the Court of Auditors' report. In 2014, female board members or managing directors in close-to-state companies earned only 73.1 percent of the average of their male colleagues. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, where's the call? Where are your actions? I miss that. Further: Female Supervisory Board members received an average of 82.9% of the remuneration of their male colleagues in 2014. In 2012, the average was still 79.7 percent, so there is also a clear need for action in close-to-state operations. You do not even implement what you demand from the private sector, even in terms of women's quotas! You say that the goal you have set yourself is fulfilled, but if you look at this report more closely and light up, you get a completely different result. Finally, I would like to sum up what I mentioned in the introduction to the exorbitant high salaries: In 2014 31 companies and institutions paid 74 persons full-time income, which was above that of the Federal Chancellor. In 2011, there were 56 people from 26 companies and facilities, so here you can clearly see that the sheer is going further and further apart, and it doesn't change, you don't do anything, you have to blame here. There is a need for clear action, and I would expect more so that we will have different figures in the next Court of Auditors report, when it comes to income, manager salaries, top salaries, and really a change, action and not just a speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19104	Mrs Schittenhelm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19125	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! My previous speakers have already addressed and rightly criticized essential aspects of the Court of Auditors' report on income. This present income report by the Court of Auditors is intended to report on the results of the Court of Auditors' surveys of average income and the additional benefits for pensions for entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and institutions in the field of the federal public economy. The Court of Auditors, of course, has fulfilled this obligation and, as always, has documented very professionally how the state of affairs in these areas is. However, it was not an easy task for the Court of Auditors, because, as already mentioned, it was not its way of working, but rather the fact that, according to the Court of Auditors in 2014, it was composed of a total of 150 companies and institutions in which members of the Supervisory Board or of an equal number. significant bodies have paid a fee, as well as five companies and institutions with a remuneration board were not able to report gender-specifically differentiated data, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I do believe that in today's digitalized age, it must not be a problem – even in the case of such large businesses – to obtain the relevant data and figures at the push of a button, and, of course, to submit them to the Court of Auditors for documentation and further processing. Especially if the proportion of women, although very small, has actually increased marginally, both in supervisory councils by 0.5 percent and in boards by 0.7 percent compared to the previous year, one could actually have commented positively. But despite the slight increase in the proportion of women, women are not represented at all in the top positions of some supervisory councils. The report points out in great detail that, for example, in 2013 in health, social and other services, but also in 2014 in these sectors where women are mainly employed, with the largest share – over 90 percent – no single woman on the upper floors finds himself in these responsible positions. I mean, the procedure, the quality would be quite different if we had women in these areas, because they would also make sure that those employed there are paid accordingly. There is no woman in these areas! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Moser.]] High house! We still have a huge difference in income among women and men. Now you can say 5.4 percent, always depends on what. This income sheath can only be closed – and I believe we are united as women's speakers across all sides of the party – when it is shown exactly where and why these differences arise. The lack of data is an unnecessary obstacle on this point, as the report shows. And the mystery that I can't understand – why keep this secret? What do you hide and why? And who's doing that? -, have to stop. In addition, according to the Court of Auditors, income data from directors and managing directors and supervisory councils as a whole are transmitted, not listed in detail. We don't want the names of the people who should stay anonymous. But we want to know who gets how much and why. But to present this in a block, I find an insolence not only to the Court of Auditors but also to the population. Finally, it is close-to-state businesses that all of us have to share responsibility. And it is not only desirable to demand that a modern method of income data collection be introduced as quickly as possible. Where there has been sufficient data and where it has been processed, it is clear that there are still, as has already been said, great differences between the incomes of men and women at this level. That too is not understandable. It is precisely in these areas that the qualifications are quite clear, that the task and responsibility of women and men are crucial. Nevertheless, women in these areas and these levels, whether interconnected or wherever, have only 73.1 percent of male income. It's not understandable to me. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have a lot of work ahead of us, and I am very confident that we will be able not only to continue working with our chairman in the Court of Auditors, Mrs Moser, and also with the other women's speakers, but also to achieve success.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19194	I call Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19216	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Once again, a management salary report of the Court of Auditors has been published, which has already been discussed here. Every two years he comes out. He always shows a similar picture. One of the problems that this report carries – and we have noted this once again – is that the salaries are presented in absolute numbers. Objective is not very easy to answer: Does a manager deserve much? Does he deserve little? if I don't know how the salary is divided. There is always a basic content, and then there are the performance-oriented components that are normally dependent on minimum standards or target-achievement standards. It would be important for us to know: Which are these? What are the objectives of obtaining premiums and credits? In my opinion, if a person is a good businessman, he should also be well deserved. I don't have a problem with that. But if the basic content is already so high that it, I say, is paid out at a no longer acceptable height and only more small components are attached to performance-oriented parameters, then I already have a problem. But we can't say it. And that's the problem on the whole. That is why we need to work on a presentation of this report, which contains exactly this breakdown. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the point of anonymization – this has just come to my mind spontaneously, we asked in committee: The President then referred me to a compliance directive of – what was it? – the OECD, which says: [[President of the Court of Auditors Moser: OECD!]] If salaries are so high that one could attach ethical concerns to it, then it is very likely to lift this anonymization. And I think about it, for myself, but I think that even for us it would be a good idea to think whether, from a certain level of income, the names should not be mentioned, even regardless of data protection. I know that's a little bit of fun. But I put it in space once as a basis for discussion. Another point that we have dealt with on this report of income in the Committee, which is also the subject today, is a request I have made regarding pensions in the Austrian National Bank. It is very specific that these are pensions subject to service provision III. That's a little bit of an outsider in the whole thing. It's true that the OeNB started a little process there and there to innovation the whole thing. But there it's still tremendous. It's about: In the provision of service III, the pension consists of a share of ASVG and a pension fund. And there is a so-called 'comparative pension' prospect, which is intended for the pension according to service provision II. Although service provision II has already been reformed, the definition of service provision III is still aimed at the unchanged size. This means that we still have huge pensions in the National Bank, which are between € 300 000 and € 400 000 per year. So this is still a luxury stamp for luxury pensioners. That is why we have also tabled this request, which has been rejected by you with the argument: Well, they've done so much anyway. Not yet in this area! And that's why it's important that something happens there too. We shall bring this request back in due course. Finally, because it also fits the National Bank: How can it be that widow's pensions in the National Bank are paid entirely from home by 60 percent of the last income of the deceased? It is obvious that the widow's pension is paid between 0 and 60 percent depending on the amount of income of the deceased husband. At the National Bank, it's 60 percent from home – a circumstance I can't leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19258	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19280	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This report, which sets out the incomes and occupational pensions of the public sector, is primarily a matter of justice. This is an issue which can be very well identified and broken down in this report. On the one hand, as has already been mentioned by my colleagues, the report shows the prevailing inequality between women and men in supervisory councils and boards, as well as the immense injustice of luxury pensions. This is a problem that we have been dealing with for two years now, and that urgently needs to be resolved even more. One issue is the inequality between women's and men's salaries in boards and supervisory councils. It is not possible for me to explain in any way how this can still be done in close-to-state companies. It is not a whole analysis of this report. We also lack data for the levels below the management levels, and we lack even more data, even from companies that simply didn't want to send them. This is a major problem in this income report, which depends on the company sending the data as well. For example, the ÖBB did not do this. We can't make any comparisons about the salaries in the management sets. But it is interesting what structural differences can be identified, for example from the sectors where gender stereotypes can be identified. There are certain sectors that are widely seen as more female – or whatever one might call it – than women: Education, art and culture or health. There are basically lower average salaries of leadership positions, which, of course, also leads to those of women who Supervisory councils and board members in the public economy are, on average, also lower, precisely because it is in these sectors. We must ask ourselves why women leaders find themselves in these sectors and not in others. Why not in the financial sector or in the insurance industry et cetera? Another aspect, which is also clear, is the effect that part-time work has on women and men. If you take away the distorting effect of the university, women work at 33.5 percent and men at 5.5 percent part-time. Part-time is extremely important, especially if you take care of child care. As long as these care obligations do not divide equally between men and women, it is a disadvantage for women to go more often in part-time. They often have job breaks, earn less afterwards, and – as we have heard a few times today – later also have less pension. Another topic is the luxury pensions. These can also be read out from this report, because it provides a transparent breakdown of public-sector occupational pensions. We have looked at this more precisely: Of the 74 companies that pay special pensions, 20 percent pay an average special pension, which is higher than the ASVG maximum pension, which a normal insurer can reach. You have to let that break on your tongue. We are talking about an additional board to the ASVG-pension or civil servants' board. It can also be seen that the Special Pension Restriction Act on the Limitation of Luxury Pensions was not sufficiently sharp. That is why I make the following request to strengthen this law: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is extremely important that we inculcate there and that we also realize that this law did not have the effect that was originally planned. That's okay, you can also admit mistakes and fix the law afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19383	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19817	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19839	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This Court of Auditors report shows us that there is still a kind of parallel world, a slaring country in the policy-oriented environment, where there are a few in incomes and subsequently in pensions. I would really like to ask colleagues from SPÖ: How are you doing when you read that the Board of Directors of Post has an income of €1.6 million a year? Is social policy? Is that what the trade unionists have stood for and what has been looked for to get more justice into the businesses when, just where you have responsibility and where you put your people in, such an Eldorado is formed? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not understand this. We do not understand that tax money, tax costs are created privileges that are not justified by anything, by nothing at all. I think every one of you will have contact with his post official. He will also be able to confirm how much the little outside are under pressure – they won't be able to do it any more. And at the top of the day is an Eldorado, a self-service shop, which it needs to dissolve as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, with representatives of FPÖ, Moser and Doppler.]] It is not just the incomes, ladies and gentlemen, because it will continue with pensions. There, too, it was addressed: 32 000 € per month pension at ÖBB. At this point I apologize to the taxpayers. At this point I apologise to the mothers who brought up three, four, five children under many abductions. At this point, I apologise to the small entrepreneurs, to the hairdressers who work daily so that they can somehow fight their lives – if on the other hand, it is possible in the state to live without responsibility for the entire thing in Saus and Braus. Ladies and gentlemen, we are quite firmly opposed to luxury pensions, because it cannot be the responsibility of the state to goldenen the age of life. The State has the task of providing basic services for people, at the maximum level of ASVG. Whoever deserves more has the opportunity to take care of the evening. But that can't be a state task. That is why we want privileges to be abolished as soon as possible and there is a pension increase only more up to the ASVG maximum limit, because then à la longue will in the course of time bring in this pension itself. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Deputies Doppler, Loacker, Moser and Gerhard Schmid.]] For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I request the adoption of the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19936	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20015	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20037	Mr President, I hope you will remain President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been mentioned a lot, including areas I also wanted to criticize. I can also leave this one or the other for reasons of time. Like some previous speakers, I should also like to thank the Court of Auditors for bringing us the approach of transparency that we want. That is what we have decided to do, and we have done so every two years, because the value actually lies in transparency. A measuring bar for us is the income of the Federal Chancellor. We can discuss the fact that many people in the public sector deserve it. It must also be said that there are, of course, public companies in international competition – you can turn or turn to what you want. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] It's to talk about, I'm already going with you in many areas in the criticism d'accord. But one must also allow the comparison in which challenges companies face with what size. That is not the case with the Court of Auditors. There are also Members – not a few – who deserve more than the Federal Chancellor. There would be more transparency that could be demonstrated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] I become market-oriented salaries at all criticisms. But, as I said, the sheer – I am d’accord again with all the previous speakers – must not open up further. [[Abg. Moser: That's over!]] It is no coincidence that all the speakers of all political groups have crystallized an area out of the report. This is page 15 of your income report, which clearly shows how in individual areas – starting from energy supply to health and social services – this difference between top incomes and the “normal” employees – has developed. There are, of course, areas where there are gratifying developments in which top salaries have fallen and only those of employees have risen, for example in the health and social spheres. That too must be emphasized. But on average, the criticism is correct. It cannot be seen how the board and board salaries rise by twice as those of normal employees. This is a development that is dramatically being shown. That's what it's supposed to do. It creates for us as a Parliamentary need for action. [[Abg. Kassinger: And who is responsible for this development?]] I am pleased, as we members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, that Mr Schittenhelm – unfortunately she has gone out – has been very offensive and has said: Yes, we have to, and that can't be so! – So with us, she finds definitely fellow fighters. We like to go there and really address this problem so that we don't have to hold our heads for things that we think are unfair and not right ourselves. The same applies to pensions. I would like, Mrs Colleague, to see you show me once – because I do not think it – where there are actually public-sector-pensions with €32 000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietrich.]] – ÖBB you said, ÖBB. – And you also said ÖBB. [[New call of the abg. Dietrich.]] [[Call the FPÖ:OeNB! ÖBB!]] - ÖBB! So that's how much I can distinguish. [[Abg. Singer: Freud’s promise!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] - Yes, yes. That's exactly the trouble when you say here at the Rostra: Yeah, I didn't mean that anyway! - Then please get things to the point. I criticize it with you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] But tell me where the rabbit is in the pepper. Tell me where the problem is! Then we can turn it off together. But don't go here and say, Yeah, I didn't mean that anyway! [[call to the FPÖ.]] That's this invisible one I condemn. The second – this is an important sentence I have to say –: I agree with all of these areas, where, Mr President, it is possible to list managers' salaries separately according to the basic salary and according to the variable salary components – Mr Zanger has already listed them in detail – in detail. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Höbart]] This is also possible in the future and should also be delivered in this way. That's what we're sharing. This then increases the transparency and comparability of managers' salaries with those of the private sector – if you continue this discussion. The aim of this further transparency must be more justice – in this case income justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] That is what we are fighting for and that is what we are committed to. And I believe that the income report of the Court of Auditors, which we are discussing today, is an essential, important contribution to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20165	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20186	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to thank you very much for the detailed report, Mr President. Mr Mayer, I do not know exactly whether you find these salaries appropriate or not. [[Abg. Mayer: No!]] I didn't quite understand it, or you didn't produce it exactly. [[Abg. Mayer: Again: no!]] On the report of the Court of Auditors on average income, Mr Colleague, and the additional pension benefits in the public sector of the Federal Republic of Germany 2013 and 2014: Manager salaries, Mr Mayer, in the public sector have increased considerably. Is that right? - Yes. More and more managers deserve more than the Federal Chancellor. Is that right? - Yes. This audit report clearly shows that the average income of board members and managers of close-to-state companies has increased significantly. That is also out of question. In 2011, there were 65 people in 26 companies, in 2014 there were already 74 people in 31 companies. The average income growth of managers was 15.3 percent between 2011 and 2014. The increase in income of normal employees was 7.5 percent during this period. Is that true, Mr. Mayer? - Yeah, I think that's right. [[Abg. Mayer: You're quoting me right, yes!]] And this sheer – I'll give you right at your closing point – between managers and normal workers and employees is getting more and more apart. [[Abg. Mayer: You repeat my speech!]] And how, Mr Mayer, does this federal government explain this procedure to the citizen? This development is the wrong way. We urgently need to stop that. – Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr Mayer!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20263	Next, Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20284	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, this Court of Auditors report is drawn up every two years. I was able to see positive developments from the 2010-2012 report. However, this is a very critical assessment, since the previous report of the Board's income growth increased by 8.2 per cent slightly behind the increase in employees by 9.1 per cent, the current report for directors and managing directors shows a value of plus 15.3 and a value of 7.5 per cent for employees. It should be noted with regret that the income of the managers increased disproportionately higher than that of the employees. Or: In 2012, members of the board earned between 2.2 times and 6.7 times as much as their employees. The average was 3.7 times. In 2014, this value increased to four times. From these figures one can see the opening of income shears. This is another point for me, which is very critical. Ladies and gentlemen, in no way can I understand the situation at the ÖBB. During the period under review, managers' salaries rose by 43.6 percent and employees' salaries by an average of 10.9%. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] It is also incomprehensible that ÖBB needs 18 managers who deserve more than the Federal Chancellor. This is an incredible development in the Austrian Federal Railways. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors also lists how much money state companies spend on supplementary pensions. According to this, in 2014, payments amounted to €539 million. Some 25,000 people have benefited from this. On average, it was 21 190 € per person – a quite remarkable number. Mr Mayer has already mentioned that, of course, many factors have to be taken into account when assessing these figures, including the size of companies or the international conditions. Thus wrote the “Kurier ” on 23 March. December 2015: "Near-state enterprises (...) continue to be income-saving companies – even if it is fair to say that the international Gagen level is much higher in boards." As I said, A lot of things have to be taken into account in the evaluation. [[Abg. Moser: That's not true at all! It's not higher!]] However, much is also very critical. One point, ladies and gentlemen, is, however, a shame to me, namely the different merits of men and women for equal work and performance. I support all the colleagues who have already given their views on this issue today. In particular, close-to-state enterprises must also be a model for everyone else. I urge those responsible to make the appropriate adjustments, and I expect that in two years' next report from the Court of Auditors, equality of income can be established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20333	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20354	Estimated President! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a final speaker, I can now summarize. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and his team very much. In this income report, we see very clearly the importance of a functioning Court of Auditors, which is equipped with sufficient personnel, with sufficient audit skills. In this sense, the audit competence for the Court of Auditors in this Republic is even extended, as this report – if you look at it very carefully and read it – is partly a disgrace. – And you can't speak like that! This report is coming to plenary every two years and it does not change much. But you see, and I am glad that all the factions are for this: Something needs to change. I'm excited what will actually have changed in two years. Mr Mayer and Mr Singer, if you hear the government parties here, you already know that not much will change. Much regret is expressed, but then again again in detail. You just have to look at the naked numbers: The reference of the Federal Chancellor was €295,000 in 2014, i.e. almost €300 000, which is a indicative figure. Mr Mayer said here that a non-indisputable number deserved more than the Federal Chancellor. The figures can be said calmly, because they are also clearly contained in the report: 74 Board members and managing directors in 31 companies have a higher income. – This must be paid more and more to the citizen outside, who is increasingly burdened, and no longer knows how to proceed. The ÖBB were addressed. However, Post AG and the energy operators are generally not much better. But of course, this 43.6 percent – I stress it again now, I know that some previous speakers have already said – are not justified with anything. It is with nothing to justify that you have an income increase of 43.6 percent from 2011 to 2014. This is, I believe, not to explain any more in this Republic and beyond the Republic in Europe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you come with free competition, well, you must not mix herb and beet either: These companies abroad, where the board of directors no longer have – if, for example, one now deals with German companies. like – but they are partly far larger, far more extensive, have more staff and are of course also quite other companies. Here you already have really principal board members' salaries at the state-based companies and in the final effect we know very well: If it becomes financially close to Post AG or to ÖBB, then one comes to the state, wants subsidies and wants money from the state; the word is also in the term “state-based enterprises”. If you can't get rid of money here and you can't deal with it, and politics doesn't make it – every two years, as I said, this report is in plenary – to change something existential, then good night, then you can't be surprised that the state is there financially as it stands. Thank you again to the President of the Court of Auditors and his team for the good work. This report sees the importance of a functioning Court of Auditors with a high level of audit competence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20411	The next item is the speech by Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20433	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Although Mr Lauch wanted to take me from the list of speakers, I am still on the list. [[Abg. Listen: I'm sorry now!]] It's about pensions. The Court of Auditors always brings very important things to light and makes recommendations. It is impressive that the institutions concerned ignore these recommendations. The Court of Auditors has also pointed out several times that the additional pensions for employees in the health insurance institutions, the pension insurance institution, the AUVA and so on would be worth a bit more and that there would be a savings potential of more than € 1 billion. The inconsistency of these supplementary pensions lies in the fact that the insurance contributions of the small people are. These are people – we have already talked about average pensions today – who themselves have an average of €1 100 pension, who can still finance supplementary pensions, and you stand here and say: There's nothing to change! In the course of the presentation of our NEOS-pension programme, I was now on my way to the various federal states, and we also looked at the country in which there are special rights. All the members of the health insurance companies have said to the media representatives who have requested: No, what the NEOS say, you can't do anything, they're wrong, they have no idea! Obviously, the Court of Auditors has no idea if one can give this health insurance functionary faith. But the truth is: These are red and black protection areas over which the hand is held. And clearly, we're talking about the national banks, because they have the biggest pensions, but that's just a little more than 1,000 people. If only they were, the Republic would be loose. I would like to say a few more sentences about the special pension limitation law, which we fortunately did not support – the Greens have contributed it. The effect of oblivion is as follows: The limits on how special pensions take effect under the Special Pension Restriction Act are based on the maximum contribution base, and this increases every year. [[Abg. Kassinger:... increases every year!]] This year, there has been an out-of-tour increase in the maximum contribution base, which is the result of the fact that these big-coppers, who receive several thousand euros a month, now have less pension reductions than they had in the previous year, and next year the reduction will be even lower. So that's what's urgently re-adjusted! We're leaving the big fish on the outside, that's not all right. There the reds and blacks have skillfully tricked the greens and protected their own clients with this special pension limitation law and brought their own sheep into the dry. There's an urgent re-adjustment!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20483	The next item is Mrs Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20504	Mr President of the National Council and the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker, we have not been ‘caught out’, but we have held our heads for improvements, otherwise we would still have these huge, even greater differences in the special pension schemes compared to the average pensions that we have strongly criticized and condemned together with you in the current hour. But, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject itself: It has become clear to all of you now. It was really interesting – I have now listened carefully to each individual Member and to each of the Members –: We all agree! What the Court of Auditors has listed here on almost 500 pages in this income report must change. This barrier between the poor and the rich must not continue to open. There's total consensus. The President of the Court of Auditors also pointed out in his statement to the Committee that: A first step towards limiting this constant growth in managers is transparency, which is the publication of the salary components. Let's take this first step. I proposed this to you two years ago. I proposed this to you four years ago. I propose this to you again today and make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Transparency is the first step, and I am not talking about restriction at all. Of course I am also for ceilings, but I would like to propose something where you can all go together, where we finally do something, so that we do not get really upset again in two years. But they seem to leave it in the excitement and do nothing, especially the entrepreneurship party does nothing, that is the Krux. I was just in secret negotiations to finally create this transparency which the OSCE repeatedly calls for, the government – what does that mean? –, governance and so on, the State of the Art is; I still remember the word. This transparency is particularly common for all listed companies. Look at this! OMV – I took this extra from Mr President –: There is even a list of details – in the Annual Report you can read it – of how much the individual earns and what the salary components are. This is not a secret at the stock exchanges, but it has to be kept secret with the close-to-state and state owners. So, now I'm telling you about the secret negotiations. I'm going to the clubmen and I'm gonna ask them: What do you mean about transparency in these manager salaries? Say: Yeah, good idea, we could do it! But at the entrepreneurship party, of course, you have to ask the entrepreneurs, and let the entrepreneurs know – I deliberately say this anonymously –: I can't! I now ask you individually – you can go through it from A to Z – in this Parliament, I now ask you individually, Mr A and Mr Z or Mrs Z or Mrs A and Mr Z of Members: Do you want to continue to run around the gangband of this large-scale industrial enterprise in this country? Do you want to continue to offer this small group with the whole Republic that you will be put to the floor – Mrs Schittenhelm's colleague, Mr Auer, Mr Mayer, Mr. Zanger or anyone else – just like Mr. Auer? Yes, in each of these public companies there is a Supervisory Board of the Republic, who agrees, he raises his hand when it comes to putting 14 percent back on it. I mean, Where are we?- Oh, my God! Do you want to make this happen? I invite you to accept this request. I like to be ready to remove my name, that everything under your flag will sail if your pride or self-esteem is supported by it. I'm talking about the matter! I am concerned that we are not again – every two years the theatre is the case – sorry about the same thing in two years, upset us about the same, but nothing happens. That's why: Please take all your courage together and don't let the industrial union – or who is behind it – give the clock for the Republic, which causes people to turn away from democratic institutions. – I hope your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20598	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20654	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-223 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gamon, colleagues, on the strengthening of the special pension law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Dietrich, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Privilegies should not be remunerated further – no special provisions for state or state-owned pension shares over the ASVG ceiling’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on transparency among managers of public enterprises. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on agenda item 5: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of its report 985 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:15:01]] 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2015/18 (III-224/1003 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Court of Auditors on Amendment No 285/A(E) by Mr Martina Schenk, Members and colleagues on "False statements to the Court of Auditors" (1004 p.m.) 8. Point Report by the Court of Auditors on the application 1286/A(E) by Mr Wolfgang Zanger, colleagues, on the extension of the Court of Auditors' audit competence (1005 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20779	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. It is the first Member of Parliament to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20806	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The RH activity report is again an interesting reading every year. This time again, we in the Committee have taken out a point that has been working on us for some time and is really an employment therapy for the Court of Auditors. This will be a transparency law where it is true that the Court of Auditors will have to make reports to the KommunAustria every six months and in advance write down 5 870 institutions or bodies and ask them if there have been any changes in the name, address or representative bodies. The result is: There's something raised that no one needs. We have also been very interested in discussing with the representatives of the government parties, and I hope that it is not just an announcement policy that we will still be in this area, or that you will explain it internally. Obviously one has also come to know, so it cannot be necessary to take such job creation measures, which were necessary until today or at least until the Committee's day 1 443 days of examination. This is a tremendous timescale where much more efficient tests could be carried out. The activity report also supported the implementation rates. That is always a point you like to talk about. The Federal Government is at an implementation rate of 71 percent, as far as the Court of Auditors' recommendations are concerned, the countries are 77 percent and the municipalities are 81 percent. I now come to the motion for a resolution, which has been discussed with regard to the extension of testing competence. Those institutions, where one does not really want them to be examined, namely the municipalities, are most efficient in implementing recommendations. That's how it comes out for me. This is quite interesting, because in the motion for a resolution we have called for all communities to be generally verifiable – for good reason too. [[Abg. Hanger: Municipalities are being tested!]] Mr Hanger, I will now tell you something about this 'be examined'. [[Abg. Hanger:... Self-administration!]] You're being checked anyway, that's already correct, just: From whom? By the Audit Committee or the Audit Committee. I'll tell you very clearly: Look All audit committees of each municipality in Austria! And then tell me what you believe, how competent these rulers are. [[Abg. Hanger:... but do not abolish!]] – Quite open, as I see it. Then there is the municipal supervision, which is established in the federal states, occupied by the head of state with respect to direction, black and red. So that's what I'm looking at. We need an independent audit body for all communities! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] But that's not the only point. The main and most important point for me is: If I am the head of the congregation responsible, I want to know what my community is like in relation to other communities – similar to those in the infrastructure. I want to know. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Calm down again, listen to me, otherwise the arguments will eventually go out to you anyway. [[Abg. Hanger:... still quiet!]] It's about comparability. I want to know how my community is compared to another community that is similarly stored. This, I believe, is also the wish of responsible community politicians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have also called for a review of the companies in which a minimum of 25 percent of the federal government is involved. Currently, the limit is 50 percent. I'm just saying one thing: This was already a conclusion in the Austrian Convention 2004 or 2005 of all political groups. That's over ten years ago. Nothing happened! We also wanted to ensure that there is also public responsibility for auditing in the event of the acquisition of income or default. That was the case between 1948 and 1977. It is interesting that you have then abolished this and not revised it to this day. We also wanted to see that in the case of direct promotions that flow from the EU to Austria to a natural person or to an institution, which is about €300 million, we can also examine what is happening with this. That's not the case. However, if I have understood this correctly, it has already been agreed in the Austrian Convention in 2004 that this should be the case. And then you just reject it so nonchalantly: We don't need all of that! I know, perhaps you think, that the Court of Auditors is already so burdened. I agree with you, too. That's why we relieve him, and then we give him these test skills. We will then discuss this in a further step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20912	Mr Mayer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20933	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. Amon: Please put that right, Elmar!]] Yes, I too should like to thank you and your staff, Mr President, in the context of the discussion of this activity report, because he is once again comprehensive, which has been done by your team in one year: about 17 reports, partial reports and so on. I assume that the honourable Members I am talking about will address in detail the demand procedure, the cross-sectional examination, so an incredible amount of examinations. I would also like to draw attention to your international activity, especially the ADA project, which is aimed at strengthening the independence of the Courts of Auditors worldwide. This is a very important project of INTOSAI, whose General Secretariat is responsible for the Court of Auditors. I hope, without interfering in your personal life planning, that you will be able to continue your experience in the context of this international work. That would be important, good and pleasing, and I would like this out of inner conviction, so I would like it. Second: I have taken one priority because it has gone down a little in the public debate, but it is an important milestone for us as a Parliament, and that is the subject of public financial control. I have taken out the estimate and accounting regulation, the VRV, which has succeeded in establishing for the first time a uniform accounting system for all local authorities. This is a highlight for me – and that is what I say as an expert on the community and country level. I mean – and I also share the wishes, demands and criticisms of the Court of Auditors – that the regulation should also be applied as a next step to community associations. We must also strive to include the impact orientation, medium-term budgeting, uniform liability limit and, last but not least, a speculation ban for local authorities in this VRV. Our goal must be to get a complete understanding of the events. And that is only possible with these measures. However, I would also like to comment on the request made here by Mr Zanger, namely to instruct the Court of Auditors to examine all the municipalities of Austria, i.e. those with less than 10 000 inhabitants. [[Abg. Singer: Kan!]] At the beginning, I was able to recover something from one point or another of your request. However, it must be seen how this is in practice and that, I do not know if you know it, we have 2 100 communities in Austria, and you want the Court of Auditors to examine all 2,100 municipalities in Austria, although we also have nine national accounting courts. [[Abg. Singer: I didn't say that at all!]] We have nine national accounting courts, which also check the municipalities, we have the state governments with their conduct controls. I am also of the opinion, as I have said, that the control committees of the municipalities have something to question in their competence. What there is – and I too would like to say that because we are in the Court of Auditors' activity report – is a community monitoring which the Court of Auditors has built up, and that is exactly what you wish, Mr Zanger, to the honourable Member, the mayors, to the communities, namely, this comparison; you get it there. I criticize you that the Court of Auditors has a lot of work to do. They have already mentioned that we should negotiate the party law, the media transparency law. That's what I'm going to do. But now to demand that the Court of Auditors should also carry out the examinations on all 2,100 municipalities, is something I must say: This needs coordination! There you have to be efficient! That's where you have to involve the national accounting authorities! Then that makes sense. And that's where you have our support. But: That now sounds populist, in the sense: They don't want control! – No, we want them very well, but they should also be efficient and possible. That is why we are unfortunately unable to accept this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20999	Mrs Moser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21021	President of the National Council and Court of Auditors! This activity report, which is very comprehensive – thanks to Mr President of the Court of Auditors – again shows the many fields where, as Parliament, as elected Members, we can worry that tax money is used more effectively, efficiently and cost-effectively, that what people are working hard on, what they pay in taxes, is also carefully treated by the public authorities, fully, specifically spent and, above all, sparingly used. Of course, this report has also pointed out that there are many recommendations from the Court of Auditors, how we can do this economy and efficiency enough and how individual ministries can better manage individual bodies. Unfortunately, these advices were only implemented 75 percent by the institutions, ministries and so on. 25 per cent to hide! Then there's a follow-up report. The President-in-Office of the Council is very consistent in the follow-up to the various test elements, to the individual steps and processes which the Court of Auditors is constantly monitoring. In this activity report, ladies and gentlemen, you will find these columns for each of the departments in which the Court of Auditors lists, which up to now are followed by its proposals, which are still open and to which there has simply not been any commitments. [[Keeping a document in height]] Unfortunately, there is a delay in the open, unimplemented recommendations. or even a deterioration compared with previous years. In the past, the ministries and public authorities which had been examined have been much more or more oriented to the Court's proposals. Now morals are taking off to improve something! We cannot accept this because, especially in the central areas of social, health and education, implementation morals have fallen significantly. As Members, as very hard members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, they are very often of the opinion, exactly what this is about, namely the competences. Federal, Land and Municipalities should join forces, but do not do so because responsibility for tasks and expenditure falls apart: The Federation pays and the countries spend, and therefore the Federation often does not know where the money goes, and the documentation often lacks. To this end, the Court of Auditors has made many recommendations, only those who have “opened” the crusade in the column. Now there is an opportunity to improve the cooperation of the institutions of the individual bodies, federal, state and local authorities, and this opportunity is called financial compensation. We could, through the financial compensation, substantially increase cooperation in terms of economy and efficiency in this Republic, taking account of the Court of Auditors' proposals to a greater extent, and I would ask you to do so. There is a second important chapter, and a third one I mention. The second important chapter in the Court of Auditors' activity report is for me that, apparently, the Court of Auditors is showing, that is, the financial impact of laws by the respective ministries that submit the draft legislation to us are not, or are, incorrect or miscalculated. That is to say, we are here in the National Council being lured or prompted to vote on something which is not clear as to how much it costs. This is a blatant abuse, because in the budget we have a medium-term budget and a long-term budget. We are also in favour of monitoring as closely as possible. And then it will be decided without it being clear how much it costs! This is particularly great in a chapter, in the negative sense, of the tax reform. In tax reform, counter-financing is particularly poorly calculated. The President has also done so in detail and presented it with foils. The Republic stands on tones and the decisions of the National Council are partly built on sand. If the financial under feed is not correct, if the calculations do not vote, we have what we all fear, namely the debt mountains. That is why we have to take the financial sector into account, above all, because there is a particularly serious maladministration. They often do not say or indicate what the financial impact of laws is. Where we still have to work together – there is a consensus in the committee between the political groups – this is in improving the party law and the media transparency law. In this context, the Court of Auditors is more or less overwhelmed with work, to the extent of more than 600 test days, with relative to no success, because the consequences or sanctions are missing. So he is sent more or less in honorary rounds without it bringing anything, and that is counterproductive. It costs a lot, but it's useless. That is why we should be working here in plenary in the Committee on the Court of Auditors' consensus. There is also the proposal to negotiate it together with the club members. And I am once again a good courage and do not lose hope. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21081	I call Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21102	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! This 2015 activity report shows us a comprehensive and informative overview of the Court's tasks. I would like to thank the staff – and the President of course – for doing so with care and competence and for providing us with such reports. My previous speakers have already mentioned a number of areas. A total of eight areas are covered by the Court of Auditors' report, and there are positive points, but, of course, specific suggestions are given as regards weaknesses in the public budget. A total of 17 reports were submitted to the National Council of the Austrian Court of Auditors with 71 contributions, 84 reports with 122 contributions were submitted in the countries and eight reports and eight contributions were submitted to the municipalities and associations also subject to the audit. The cross-sectional examinations in the various materials are exciting and constantly stimulating to discussions. For example, the Court of Auditors has taken note of the consolidation measures of the countries and state teachers' pensions in Upper Austria and Tyrol, or also of the limits of liability in the fields of countries and municipalities. An examination has also been carried out with the European Court of Auditors in the field of agriculture. Another area in this activity report is the federal accounts. This shows that the negative net assets have deteriorated from €140.6 billion in 2013 to € 148.3 billion in 2014. The general government Maastricht deficit was 2.7 per cent in 2015, and the federal government had a deficit of 2.8 per cent. Countries and municipalities and social insurance companies have been more positive. Dissatisfied – and that has already been mentioned by the previous speakers – the Court of Auditors showed itself with the transparency package adopted in 2012. There's quite a need for intensification. There is an extremely high administrative burden, especially in the Party Act. There is a need for greater transparency, efficiency and control. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Moser.]] In the Media Transparency Act, the administrative burden is also relatively high. There is a limit of 5 000 € per quarter. In my opinion, this should already be thought of inculcating, because it does not seem to be a third to a half of the donations. Of course, less gratifying is the implementation rate – it has already been implemented. The audited bodies should again show more seriousness. The report also deals with international activities. The Austrian Court of Auditors is very active within INTOSAI and our President as Secretary-General in a role that makes it possible to ensure an intensive international exchange. A peer review project is intended to help strengthen the independence of the audit courts. Finally, I would like to focus on this revealing report, which provides us with meaningful facts and data, in the positive sense. However, it should also be for us to point out weaknesses and to restore positive implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21160	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21181	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' balance sheet can be seen, and I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, who is currently talking to the other President, and the Court of Auditors' team. However, the report also shows that the audit resources are not used in the way they are intended to be used. There is more bureaucracy and less transparency. Now I ask you: Is that the task of the Court of Auditors? – I say: No, no, no, What am I referring to this statement? – to the media transparency law and the party law. Some previous speakers have already mentioned this, and we have also discussed it in detail in the Committee, namely that there are major shortcomings and that there must be changes because resources are wasted. Since 2013, only 1,443 testing dates have been used on resources and 253 of them in 2015. With these audit days we could have done 24 follow-up tests that would have been much more meaningful than this administrative burden, these administrative tasks which the Court of Auditors has in the two areas of media transparency law and party law. It is also true that the Court of Auditors has little competence to really understand and to really examine the correct details of the accountability reports under the Party Law. If he finds clues, then the Court of Auditors must not examine itself, but – you hear and marvel! – an external auditor must order it and pay for it. This is probably not one of the priority tasks of the Court of Auditors. There's a need for changes. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have discussed this in detail, as mentioned earlier, in the Committee, and I would also like to thank President Dr Moser, who has taken up the proposal and has expressed an invitation to all parties to cooperate, to cooperate and to develop amendments in the field of party law and media transparency law, together with the President of the Court of Auditors, and then to decide, because in the present form, ladies and gentlemen, this is not useful. Let us relieve the Court of Auditors! Let us release resources that he needs for the really important tests, but not for those two areas that I have just mentioned. Of course, I would also like to respond to my request concerning false statements to the Court of Auditors. We have dealt with this request in the last committee, and it has been rejected. That is why we are discussing it today and talking about it. The government parties, the representatives of the government parties, have rejected him with the shaky comparison of the separation of violence, which I cannot understand at all. Otherwise, the Court of Auditors would like to quote and praise a lot, and we have taken a statement from the President of the Court of Auditors on the occasion to formulate this request, namely that false statements should be sanctioned against the Court of Auditors. We know: Burgtheater scandal, Finanzskandal Salzburg. These are the best examples where false documents have been sent to the Court of Auditors or no documents have been submitted to it and there have been false statements – and all without sanctions! It is criminal in front of the investigation committee, it is criminal, but the Court of Auditors is allowed to lie – and then indirectly to us, Parliament, as legislators! I think we can say good conscience that we do not agree. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to say a sentence on this point: with regard to NEOS' rejection in committee: I cannot understand this either, because if you say here that you may go along with it in terms of content, but we should put it differently, then I can already remind you that it was your colleague, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, who was massively excited by the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors that the so-called study was not presented to the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Gamon:... explain!]] If you don't do anything there and if there are no sanctions there, it will continue to happen. I would advise you perhaps to consult your colleague, who is now sitting in Vienna's municipal council, so that something like this does not happen, because I find that rather embarrassing for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21240	Mrs Gamon is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21261	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The Court of Auditors is doing a lot of good work, despite the tight budget. We have already discussed in more detail during the budget week that the Court of Auditors must now also resolve reserves and from 2017 on it threatens that ten audits can be carried out less per year if nothing is done. That is why I start with a fundamental appeal, including to the government parties, perhaps to devote myself to the Court of Auditors once again, and to increase the budget on the next occasion, for example because the Court of Auditors has been tasked with over the last few years. I would like to draw a few points from the activity report, first of all the impact-oriented impact assessment on the financial impact of laws – the Court of Auditors has looked at how plausibly the ministries explain this in their legislative proposals –: Only 61 percent of the laws comply with this plausibility test; the Ministry of Finance is remarkably worst off here. The Court of Auditors is also aware of the results of these reviews. It is very important to draw attention to the fact that, especially in times of high unemployment and with a pressing debt problem, it is important that we do not adopt laws where we do not even know what the financial impact is, and these cannot be plausibly explained. Second point: Assessment periods. – Not only the Court of Auditors, but also the board of lawyers, have criticised the fact that the assessment period recommended by the BKA is often not complied with for six weeks of laws and that there have also been dramatic short evaluation periods. This could give the impression that the Ministries are not interested in the opinion of all the stakeholders. In some cases, the urgency was not clear, as was the case with the Law on Human Use. In Vorarlberg, some things are said: No ned hudla – you should not hurry too fast and do not save time when something is important. In principle, we need more reforms in Austria at a faster pace, but I do not think that saving savings in assessment periods is the right starting point. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In my opinion, this would be extremely important; of course, there should also be derogations, no question at all, but it is important to establish that there should be a certain period of assessment so that all stakeholders can speak. Third point: Transparency. – This is a magic word of political communication, but unfortunately completely empty in connection with party promotion and transparency. In the media discussion of the last few weeks, also thanks to the initiative of the President of the Court of Auditors, Moser, it has been shown that the Party Law urgently needs to be repaired. In many places it is simply not strict enough, and it is not transparent enough in what it requires the parties. We are dealing with tax money here, and it is really about showing up and justifying to the taxpayer that the money is used properly and properly. I would therefore also like to make a request to this effect: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is, I believe, an important point to show, too, that we are willing to account for the use of the taxpayers we are getting in order to be able to make policies in order to be able to use more democracy. This is actually the minimum thing you can ask parties to do. Then I come to the last point: Recommendations. . There is a quota for recommendations from the Court of Auditors that have been implemented, which is 75 percent, which has worsened a little. 25 percent of recommendations have not been implemented, that is. It is also possible for the Court of Auditors to look at what has been implemented in follow-up tests and so on. However, we would like the audited bodies to have to justify why they have not implemented certain recommendations. There is, of course, also the problem of recommendations requiring the interaction of multiple levels of local government, especially the problem of federalism in Austria. This is a break-up that we also need to fix. All in all, you know – and we all know that: The Court of Auditors – not so bad at all – does good work, perhaps we would also have to provide it more financially, give it the appropriate resources. If you are not of this opinion – that is also an opinion – I would like to ask for a statement here as to why the Court of Auditors is still budgeted for why you do not give him the opportunity to review something. One might suspect: Maybe you have something to hide! If you would like to object to this accusation, make sure that the audits are still possible and do not threaten us the fate that the Court of Auditors will be able to examine less from 2017 onwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21371	Both motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21485	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke on an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21506	Mr President. High house! On today's agenda there is the activity report, the income Men's report and five reports with 21 audit results – this already shows that the Court of Auditors has worked a lot. Considering the year 2015 – this is also reflected in the activity report – it can be seen that the National Council, the Land Days, the municipal councils, as well as the Chambers have received more than 200 reports from the Court of Auditors or audit results. In other words, and in view of the fact that the Court of Auditors has met its objective of increasing transparency for citizens on the cost-effective, effective and effective use of public funds to a very high degree. Mr Mayer mentioned that the new VRV 2015 could be adopted in 2015. It was a very rocky path that led over ten years, namely to establish a consolidated statement of earnings, financing and assets for the federal government, countries and municipalities, so that in the future there is the possibility that the real financial situation will actually become visible through public budgets. This is a success that does not come to the Court of Auditors alone, but I would like to thank the members of the Committee on the Committee on Budgets very much, including those members of the Committee on Budgets who helped to ensure that this sensible project could be implemented in 2015 in the light of sustainable funding. I hope – and this has also been mentioned by Mr Mayer – that the outstanding points, namely a revision of § 16 of the Financial Constitution, will be launched in order to define the medium-term planning, the ban on speculation, the limits of liability under uniform, comparable rules, by uniform, comparable methodology. In the context of the activity report, which has also been referred to, the international activities of the Court of Auditors should also be highlighted. I do so because I believe that international activity is also important for the reputation of Austria. You know that in recent years the Court of Auditors, as the General Secretariat of the Roof Organisation of all Courts of Auditors, has worked together with the United Nations to strengthen and recognise the independence of audit courts. The success that has developed from it can be measured by the fact that three resolutions of the General Assembly of the United Nations have now been adopted, namely to strengthen the independence of audit courts. These are the resolutions A/66/209, A/69/228 and 69/327. In addition, there have been three resolutions by the ECOSOC, the Economic and Social Council, which highlighted the importance of the Courts of Auditors for the implementation of the sustainability objectives, and it has also been accepted that, in line with the Austrian development of the accounting system, there is an improvement in public accounting worldwide. Last but not least, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has also voted in favour of strengthening the Courts of Auditors. Looking at the last 2015 resolution, 69/327, the General Assembly encourages all Member States, as well as the United Nations observers and relevant institutions, to intensify cooperation with INTOSAI, in particular in the area of capacity building. This shows – the INTOSAI is represented by the General Secretariat – that the General Secretariat also has full recognition of the United Nations, a situation which, I believe, is very beneficial to Austria. In this regard, I would like to express my warmest thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since this success has been made possible, in particular, through the permanent representation of the United Nations. I would also like to thank Mrs Bayr, who, at the High-Level Political Forum last year, made massive efforts to ensure that this area of independence and strengthening was implemented accordingly. After illuminating the national and international parts, I would like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors in particular, because this praise or recognition is due to them because they have been able to do so with their work. Today, Mrs Moser and Mrs Gamon have also referred to the questioning procedure that the demand procedure has shown that 2 899 recommendations have been implemented in the calendar year 2014 74.5 percent. This is a very, very high value, which is slightly lower than in the previous year, but which is also due to the fact that cross-sectional examinations have been more and more presented to the House – cross-sectional examinations in the areas of education and health, and especially in this area, as has been said, implementation is linked to the fact that structural reforms are finally being carried out. However, structural reforms do not start as they should and as would be necessary with a view to sustainable financing. I can only hope, therefore, that measures in this area will also be stepped up. The financial impact of legislative measures has also been addressed. In this context, in 2015, only 61 percent of the laws or regulations in accordance with § 17 of the Federal Budget Act had sufficiently plausible explanations on the cost consequences. It would be useful and necessary to pay more attention to the requirements we have in order to achieve a structurally balanced budget, or to ensure sustainable finances, just as § 17 of the Federal Budget Act, namely that the cost consequences are clearly presented, also in the context of parliamentary decision-making. It was also mentioned in the debate that the Court of Auditors has a wealth of special tasks. I mention the 2012 incompatibility and transparency package, i.e. the Media Transparency Act or the Party Act, where the Court of Auditors has a wealth of tasks. More than 2,000 test days have been spent in this area alone. That is to say, 45 audits have entered this area without the Court of Auditors simultaneously being able to carry out its core task of examining and introducing its audit know-how. That is to say, he is essentially limited in this area to carrying out administrative tasks, to carry out quantitative activities, and he is forbidden to actually introduce his core activity, namely, in the field of the Incompatibilities Act, the Media Transparency Act and the Party Act. There is therefore a need for action because the administration, the bureaucracy that arises does not meet the Court of Auditors alone, but also affects 5,860 legal entities who have to take measures that do not have the consequence of full transparency, accountability and prevention. And it is also measures that burden the parties, but on the other hand do not bring the effect that one actually wanted to link with the objectives of the law in this case. If we consider the Media Transparency Act, then in this context in particular the transmission or reporting obligations of the controllers would have to be deflated. It would also be a waste of the collection of the competent bodies. It would be clear that, under the Media Transparency Act, chamber companies are also required to report. It would be necessary to clarify the audit competence of the Court of Auditors for university funds. In this context, it would also be necessary to reconsider the amount of €5,000 per quarter or media and media representatives, because this does not cover 50 percent of the expenditure under the Media Transparency Act. Very briefly in this context also to the Party Law, so that you can see that there is a need for action in this area. The Court of Auditors should be the one providing transparency to determine the accuracy of the publications. If you look at the non-examining tasks, the Court of Auditors may: He may order auditors; he may forward documents to the Independent Party Transparency Senate; he may collect legal transactions; he may disclose – the valorisation factor –; he may publish the account report; he may publish the legal transactions; he may publish the donations – but he may not verify! In this context, the following should be determined: If one wants to see the Court of Auditors actually employed, then one should use it in such a way that it can carry out its core activity – and that it can also carry out advice – if one does not want to do so – which can be accepted without further delay, then one should remove the Court of Auditors and not rape it in the way that it must do activities that lead to the creation of bureaucracy, create administration for the legal entities subject to control, without having any effect. I would therefore request that the Party Act or the Transparency Act be revised in the light of all those concerned, that transparency can also be achieved in the final effect. The final point is the income report: I would also like to thank you for your support. I would also like to point out that it would certainly be necessary and appropriate to bring more transparency into this context. And I would also like to point out – because Mr Zanger mentioned – that the OECD principles of corporate governance have been set in relation to managerial relations – I quote: "Experience shows that disclosure can also be a powerful tool for influencing business behaviour and protecting investors. (...) Inadequate or unclear information may hinder the functioning of markets, increase capital costs and lead to an unsatisfying resource allocation.’ That is, we already have more information in the Corporate Governance Code than we do in the context of the income report referred to in Article 121 para. 4 of the Federal Constitution. It would certainly be appropriate in this case, Article 121, paragraph 1. 4 B-VG to further develop so that you have the transparency to be able to draw the necessary conclusions from it. Finally, thank you very much for your cooperation! It has always been a pleasure to work with you in the Court of Auditors and to discuss the reports in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21605	I thank the President of the Court of Auditors for his statement. Mr Doppler, will you be able to finish at 3 p.m.? Well, I'll ask you to start your speech. [[Abg. Doppler: Yes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21637	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Mr President, I can make it easy at this time. Ladies and gentlemen! Extension of the Court of Auditors' audit competence, request by Mr Zanger: The current audit competences cover companies in which the public sector is involved with at least 50 percent, as well as federal authorities, countries and municipalities with at least 10 000 inhabitants. A proper approach, ladies and gentlemen, would be, as some federal states already have, to check from 25 percent on. Mr President, I think that would be a right approach. I think it is also very important that the housing companies should be included in this examination, because it would be very important to have a proper control, so that there is not only with regard to rents for citizens, but also with regard to the entire billing of such transparency. I believe that it would be a right approach for the Federal Court of Auditors to consider the possibility of a 25 percent participation, as in the countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21670	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this brief speech. I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 6 to 8 of the agenda. [[14:59:12]] Short debate on the response to the question 7235/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21695	We shall proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on the response to the question 7235/AB. As the above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lugar. Please, Mr Klubobmann Lugar.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21729	Mr President, I would ask you to find out where Mrs Minister is. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where is the minister?]] - Ah, she's coming, what sunshine! [[Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner: I'm already here!]] Very good. Since the woman minister is here, we can start. I am already very excited about what you, Mrs Minister, are going to say about this. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] It is an important right of Parliament today, namely the right of questioning. As a Member of Parliament, we have the right and also the duty to control the minister and in general the executive. To this end, there is the right of interconnection, i.e. we have the opportunity to ask the Ministries to find out what is important to us, as Members, to find out whether the government is doing good work. We did that, and we wanted to know how many illegals there are in Austria. We have the problem that in Austria many years ago there was the discussion that up to 100 000 submarines exist in Austria. At that time the official figures were still very, very small, at the time they were officially spoken of as 15 000 illegals, but at that time the dark figures were very high. In the meantime, we have received a request from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who says that in 2015 92,000 so-called illegals were taken up. Now, of course, we can say that if 92,000 have been officially taken up, the number of dark figures is of course much, much higher. And that is quite disturbing. But what is much more disturbing to me is the fact that the Minister answers our question – either she does not know better or she does not want to tell us, but in both cases it is a disaster – in a way that I now want to bring you a little closer. We asked the Minister how many people were illegally detained in Austria and how many were picked up. We wanted to break this up: police controls, other authorities have taken action, border controls, and then: in the presence of tractors. And to all these questions, the Minister answered: ‘These request-related data shall not be recorded statistically.’ [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's what she always writes!]] You have to let that break on your tongue. We wanted to know how many illegals were attacked by the police, by other authorities or – and that is quite, very important – how many were attacked in the presence of tractors. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They are not picked up!]] There are no statistics on this, Mrs. Minister? Is that what you're serious about? I've always believed it's a criminal record when someone drags people. The police are getting in and arresting tugs, and you don't know how many have been dragged? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: She doesn't know who's coming either!]] Does that make any difference if one has been dragged or 50? It makes a difference when the tow is condemned! – And you don't know that? You're not interested? Mrs. Minister, it would be really interesting what you say about whether it is actually so that you are not interested in it. From your ministry there has been an answer to a telephone call from the “Press” – which has written an article on it – regarding the attacks: There may also be people who have been picked up several times. – Explain this to me, Mrs. Minister! If an idiot is in the country and your cops pick him up, what do they do with that? Do they release him again so that they can pick him up again and then again? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: How do you know she doesn't register?]] Is that really what they do illegals take up several times? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, yes, yes!]] I'm giving you a good tip now, Mrs. Minister: If you pick up an illegal, take him out of the country, but not across the border, because then he'll be right back. This is what we are currently experiencing at the German border. [[Abg. Amon: What is your proposal, Mr Lugar?]] The Germans send them back, we bring them to the border, they go over again, the Germans bring them back, we bring them to the border, they go over, the Germans bring them back, and that into all eternity. The officials there are already asking if we've run into anything. I say to you that the simplest solution would be to bring them back to where they came from, in this case to Turkey. [[Abg. Schimanek:... to Africa!]] This is not a problem at all, because they came from there, and that is also a safe country – at least Turkey wants to go to the EU, so it has to be safe. If this doesn't happen, if we don't know where they come from – that's the next problem, they don't have a duty of participation; everyone can say that he's so badly traumatized and doesn't know where he's from anymore – then I'm because, for example, one in Libya, that's a pretty broken country, renting a region from the EU, building a protection zone with the UN and bringing everyone there, then they don't come either. That's exactly the point: If you just send them across the border, they'll come back in soon. There we are also at your border fences: Do you explain to me why you're building a border fence for millions if it's only four kilometers long? [[Abg. Pendl: Marantana!]] If one is rejected because he has no asylum grounds, then he simply goes along this border fence four kilometers, and then he stands back and we play the game for all eternity. That's the problem, Mrs. Minister. So you should make a little more effort, not just in the answers to the questions. That's a joke, because I'm really scared if you just answer us to many interesting questions, there's no statistics. That means nothing but that you do not know who is in Austria. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Kumpitsch.]] You have no idea who lives in Austria as a submarine and what it might lead in the shield. And if you catch someone, then you don't think anything better than sending him a letter home – in case the address is known – that he has to go outside of the country. And it's done with that. [[Abg. Plessl: Hotspots!]] I'm telling you a secret, Mrs. Minister: They do not go out of the country, but stay here, with all the potential, with all the potential for risk. You finally have to answer that! That is why, Mrs Minister, a little more serious, not only in response to the question, but also in your ministry and in your work. And here we are on the subject: It is true that bus drivers tell us that people enter the border and they lose at least half on the way to the German border. You have no idea where they are left, no idea where they are, even with people who are now letting you in, who supposedly want to apply for asylum in Germany. They do not check whether they arrive in Germany. They have not yet asked the German authorities whether they are actually arriving. Why Make You don't, Mrs. Minister? Isn't that logical? If you leave someone in the country who says he's going to Germany, but he doesn't get there, and the German authorities tell you, then you'd have to tell him that he's left somewhere in Austria. And then you have to ask yourself the questions: How do we find these people? What are these people doing here? Why do they indicate at the border that they want to go to Germany, and then they don't? – You should ask yourself all these questions, Mrs. Minister. As far as your ceiling is concerned: I have always been a friend of the upper limit, but in my view the upper limit is zero, because, according to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, all of them have no right to obtain asylum in Austria. Therefore, a ceiling of zero would be absolutely legal. But what you're doing isn't legal, Mrs. Minister. They say up to 37,500 they have all the rights, and from 37,501 they have no more rights. A Jus practitioner can tell you that this won't work. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You can't agree to someone's right, just because a number that you have arbitrarily determined has been exceeded. That's why: If we're already entering a border, we'll do it with zero, because that's all right. According to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, no one has a right, and there has not yet been anyone who has been able to disprove it. Read the Geneva Refugee Convention, I would also recommend it to you, Mrs Minister, that it stands inside! A point to subsidiary protection...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21909	Ladies and gentlemen, please take note of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21925	The speaking time, yes, I still have a little bit. Subsidiary protection is a right that we have doubled to the Geneva Refugee Convention, without need. We could do that at any time, we don't need it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] [[Abg. Hagen: Mrs. Korun knows better!]] That is, we only give protection to those who really need it, then it is quite, quite, very few. Not only do we reject all the others behind the border, but we bring them back as far back as possible to where they came from, because then we can be sure that they will not return for at least a long time. This also has a certain dissuasive character for all those who make their way and do not do so because they are threatened, but because they hope for a better life. I can understand that I would, but the question is not whether they want it, the question is whether we should accept it. I say no, I am for help on the ground and not for a ten times as expensive aid in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And that's exactly what you're doing, Mrs. Minister, and that's why: Try a little more at the answers to the questions and try more especially when it comes to finding out who is actually illegally residing in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21974	Mrs Mikl- Leitner, Federal Minister of the Interior, is next mentioned. Mrs Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22006	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the opportunity to talk about the subject of illegally stagnant people, about how we deal with illegal stagnation. But I can remind you, dear Mr. Klubobmann Lugar, that in your own ranks, speak in your party, you have a police officer, a trained policeman who is still active in the service, who could certainly have given you comprehensive information about how to understand this request answer, but I would also like to do it personally. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But we want them from you!]] In order to give you an overall picture, I believe it is important to explain how it looks with the legal framework when people are illegally residing in the country. As you know, someone can be pushed back if he's illegally in the country. If this is not possible, a procedure will be initiated by the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, subsequently a return decision, if necessary a ban on entry. As you know if you are aware, you also need a so-called home travel certificate for each return, and this is ultimately the major problem that the European Commission needs a great deal of strength and effort to make these agreements with the countries of origin so that these home travel certificates are also guaranteed and the illegals removed. In addition, we also take an Austrian route and are in conversation with many countries to obtain home travel certificates, and will continue to focus on returns. That this is the case already shows the figures from 2015, and of course we want to increase them in 2016. In 2015, we succeeded in bringing 8 365 people out of the country, 5 087 of them voluntarily and 3 278 of them. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: After great!]] Now to the points raised by you: The claim that 92,400 people are illegally resident in our country is, in any case, wrong, because these statistics also include people who were taken up without legitimate residence permits in the previous year and were considered illegal. Many of them, of course, have made a further request for asylum. As you know, they are first regarded as illegal, and then, when they make an asylum application, they are no longer considered illegal. [[Abg. Pendl: Everyone knows that!]] I think Mr Hagen knows very well. In addition, the higher numbers of attacks are, of course, also due to our increased control activity. As you know, we are putting an emphasis on the veils and, above all, on the fight against towing. And let's say that we're 1st. It will also have a new operational centre in the fight against tow in Vienna, where it is especially possible for the Balkan countries to cooperate even more intensively in this centre, involving Europol and Interpol. Give me the opportunity to take a short look at the new border management. You know that we have reached a ceiling of 37,500 asylum applications for 2016 on the part of the Federal Government and that this is now leading to the establishment of so-called daily quotas. The daily quotas, if you want to do so, relate to two limits: firstly, we are willing to accept 80 asylum applications per day at the southern border; secondly, only 3 200 are allowed to pass through Austria on the way to other countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: In Spielfeld, we already know!]] Mrs Colleague, I should also like to inform you that there is no difference between Mr Doskozil's statement and that of me, if you want, both statements are correct and correct. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And on Monday? How many were there? 170!]] Why is the statement made by the Minister of Defence correct? – Because at the moment it is simply a fact that all the refugees of Slovenia are guided exclusively by the border crossing of the field. So his statement is correct. I hope I was able to figure this out. [[Abg. Neubauer: What about those who come back from Germany? They don't count?]] On the other hand, I can also inform you about this – I am coming from the Western Balkans Conference in the Ministry of the Interior, to which the Foreign Minister and I have invited together – that our aim is to reduce migration flows together with the Western Balkans, because we all know that it cannot continue in the dimension of the last months, last year. There are, I believe, only two possibilities – if we are looking at the flows of refugees: Firstly, it will continue to accept the swing towards Central Europe, while Austria, Germany and Sweden will continue to be the main stakeholders – we will not accept it, and therefore it will also need the upper limit and very clear national measures – and secondly, of course, there is the possibility of taking steps through national measures at the border – and in close alliance with the Balkans – and reducing the flow of refugees so that there is actually less, and above all there is pressure to implement European solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What? You're doing it!]] I would like to take up one word that Mr Klubobmann has mentioned, namely the subject of towing report. To this end, mention should be made of the following: This tractor report is in final production and will be presented in spring. You have the opportunity to read all the figures in detail, or to ask me various questions within a committee. This tractor report, which summarises all the figures, is being worked on. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22136	Mr Pendl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22157	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is always a very sensitive and very delicate discussion when it comes to this issue. I always try to fabricate them, but it is not easy if one does not seem to know or listen to the legal system, which is actually discussed all weeks and months. [[Abg. Lugar: That's where the minister has to laugh!]] Right at the beginning – and again the same ones who criticize, laugh – I would like to thank all the colleagues of the police, the federal army, the NGOs, because the heavy service they have been doing for weeks and months is always seen by all of us as a matter of course. That is why our common thanks to them are clear. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] Mr Klubobmann, in recent months, at least once a month, we have put in place some measures here – not only the Federal Government – with which we have responded to the development that Europe needs too long to tackle these tasks very easily. We tried the step by step. I also say quite clearly: The international community faces a major challenge. Why is the UN not going here and making massive pressure so that we can advise these crisis spots? Why does the European Union need too long to calm down these crisis spots? As long as this does not happen, we will have to deal with this problem more or less, whether at the EU's external border or – because it does not work until the EU's external border works – at the national border. That's a big job. They are here and have no answer, no proposal, only criticism, Mr President, to make this clear. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Watch out, lock up your ears!]] Let me say one more thing – this has now gone down in the discussion –: We, Mr Amon, and I, have made a request today, in addition to all the measures, Mrs Federal Minister, – and I hope that he will be assigned to the Committee on the Interior, then we will also deal with it at the next committee – so that we can solve the whole issue with border control – everyone, I think, is informed – very quickly as far as fingerprints and their storage are concerned. Every measure seeks to break up all these delicate issues very wide in the Republic, not just in politics. If we want to act on every individual who comes to us, we must also be clear that we simply need the armor to do so so. I don't think we need much to discuss about this, because everyone should know that. And of course officials need legal certainty. Now we can interpret what the present law produces or does not produce, what one might define more clearly; and I mean, with this clarification that we are now going to make, we are going to get that half way. Because everything is constantly being criticized here, I would like to say: We criticise the unolidarian attitude at European and international level. However, in the face of all these difficulties in recent months, I have not seen much of national solidarity either when I look at the general state of the way in which desperate efforts have been made to remedy them with state and not state organizations. In any event, it must be clear that this important task is in the interests of humanity, in the interests of humanity, but also of the security of the state and its citizens, because we all know not only where it will be difficult to solve it socially and to accommodate all these people, but also where the pain limits of our people lie. And I believe that we are in exactly this field of tension, where on the one hand it concerns the population, where the people have the right to do so and everyone knows who is in the country – that is not a question – and where it must be so that people can be accommodated in such a way that they can say that it is social, that is human, that is humanity, and that will be fair to all conventions. In any event, all these questions are not appropriate to polarize Mr Lugar, to make a political game out of it, but we should try to solve these issues. That would be so easy. I can only say that we are at least trying together; the invitation is to do so. In this context, we still have enough opportunity to talk, for example in the Committee. In any case, you should stop being insecure. Yes, it is insecured without interruption. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] - Whether you're laughing or not: It doesn't matter now. The subject is far too serious. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am really looking for this – that is already my final sentence, Madam President – because we are all committed to the Austrian federal constitution and to our legal system, not always to do so as if there were no such thing. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again]] Austria is a rule of law, we are committed to the rule of law, we are committed to the Austrian population – and we will solve this in this way as well as in context with the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22263	Next, Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22284	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not a representative of an Austrian insurance company, but I would nevertheless like to say to Mr Klubobmann Lugar: We want your concerns! Yes, we want your concerns. [[Abg. Lugar: You got them anyway!]] [[Abg. New builder: You have them!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] While at the hour of her ministry, Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner has about 14 people in the interior and foreign ministers to discuss these problems and to work out concrete solutions, quote them here in Parliament with your questioning and, in fact, hinder them from taking part in this really important conference! So 'important' is this issue to you, Mr Lugar! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Make a successful answer to questions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Mr Klubobmann Lugar, as a passionate parliamentarian, whom I am, one who very much appreciates the right of interconnection, I still have to say to you: A bit of feeling, a bit of sensitivity to things that are important, I would have liked you to do. It would be far more important for the Minister of the Interior to be host to the 14 other ministers in her place – and not now to discuss the written answer to you here with you. This could have been done the same at the next plenary session. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Parliament is already important!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, Mr Hagen and Mr Lugar.]] Mr Lugar, I would like to say something to you: This is not evidence of any solution competence to go out here and operate with numbers, although you have already been told in the answer to the question that the numbers you submit do not agree that this has apparently been compiled according to the motto: Believe only one statistics that you faked yourself! Of course, such requests are also uncertain by the fact that there are 92 000 illegals in Austria. [[Abg. Lugar: That's right there!]] That is not correct in this way – Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner has now told you that too! [[Abg. Lugar: That's it!]] This cannot be said, Mr Lugar. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lugar.]] Mr Lugar, it doesn't help anything anyway. You can't convince anyone, even with right arguments, if he doesn't want to be convinced. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Now don't be so superlative!]] They want to change a few small political coins with this debate, but do not see the overall enormously difficult task of resolving it. I really want to express my utmost respect for what has already been done, that it has succeeded in setting up an excellent border management, which is necessary in order to curb this very massive move. [[Abg. Lugar: Excellent?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What are you saying?- Oh, my God!]] It is no coincidence, Mr Lugar, that representatives of all states on the Balkan route to Vienna are now coming to this conference to discuss this question. [[Call the FPÖ: Half a year too late!]] Our Federal Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Defence, we are working with all the states on the Balkan route to solve this problem, because this is a massive problem, one that needs to be taken seriously. No one has claimed that all of this has gone off completely without any problems. We have all noticed that a mass migration has taken place suddenly. But with the way you're trying to change coins here without making a single proposal on how to deal with things, it's not going to happen; that's really a problem. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Lugar.]] And to put forward proposals that would also be a task of the opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Bring back!]] In this context, I say one more word because Mr Brosz of the Greens – he is not here right now – has publicly criticized the rejection of the plenary session scheduled for tomorrow, since there is no alleged template. This too, from my point of view, is a real doubling which I would like to address here. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brunner and Mr Korun.]] We have had a proposal in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the strengthening of the right of asylum. We wanted to decide or deal with this at tomorrow's meeting. However, it was the explicit wish of the Greens to organise a hearing in the Internal Committee, to take account of the expert’s speeches and opinions and to wait until the next committee to decide on the proposals – taking into account seven further requests made by the opposition. [[New calls for proposals by Mr Brunner and Mr Korun]] [[Further calls from Mr Brunner and Mr Korun.]] These requests – that is already my final sentence, Madam President – have been postponed together with the opposition. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] What is not going on is to publicly criticize the fact that there are no templates, but in the Committee itself, to ask that this be postponed.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22538	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22560	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Amon, it is also not possible for you to produce and claim that the opposition has no proposals – and you are adjourning all the opposition requests. I can give it back just as much. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] With all appreciation: There are a total of 700 requests from the opposition parties, so to speak, somewhere in the Nirwana, applications that the government is simply always adjourned. – You should not lose sight of that, as I mean. In addition, Mr Amon, you have been so excited that we are now making a question, where the Federal Minister should be at such an important conference, I say: It is the duty of the Federal Minister to speak and answer the Austrian Parliament! [[Abg. Amon: You have no sensitivity either!]] You don't need to get upset about this, because if you don't want to, if that's just a daunting commitment for you, then I'd say you've got the wrong position here. [[Complementary of the Abg. Donate.]] In addition, it has probably even failed that the Minister of the Interior does not find herself there, because she only tells fairy tales as she did today. Just because the new Minister Doskozil is still honest and not so corrupt by this Vienna parquet, we have even learned yesterday that this whole asylum package is a purely mogel package, that it has nothing to do with what you are trying to make people clear to you, Mrs Federal Minister. [[Ironic cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] On Monday 170 asylum applications were filed, because the 80-person limit applies only to the field. And if at some point the other “doors with their sides” are finished, they should be valid along the southern border; but if someone in the country makes the asylum application, that is not one of the upper limit of 80 applications. Do you know what you're doing with it? – They do the business of the tractors, which will then do nothing else than drag the people somewhere over the green border into the interior of the country, so that they can make the asylum application. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This is the insanity you give of yourself to, Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally stop scattering sand into the eyes of the population! I tell you quite honestly: What you're doing here is crazy! [[Abg. Schwentner: Stop yelling!]] This is, in fact, a plant of the population. I would have another word on my tongue, but I know that I would get a call for order – but that is what you do with the Austrian population. They've been telling stories for months. From the very beginning, you have known that this so-called upper limit does not apply – neither the 37 500 applications per year nor the 80 applications per day – and it cannot apply, because you could either break it down or break it down to the minute limit. You're no longer allowed to excel at currencies. You, and with you the entire cabinet, Mrs. Minister, are retiring. You're definitely retiring! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] If I now think – this is the question of people who are illegally resident in Austria – a “Kurier” article comes into my mind to a Macedonian who is illegally resident in Austria; it comes from Macedonia and has raped about 20 women. [[Call the ÖVP:No?- Oh, my God!]] The “Kurier” writes – after listing what he has done with the women –: “The investigators finally secured photos of the man. Police officers at the police inspection exhibition street recognized the 22-year-old on it. “You knew him about an official act and knew that he had been accommodated in a residential house on Engerthstraße,” said Pölzl. The 22-year-old was not officially reported in Vienna, he lived as a submarine in the Federal Capital." Now you have to let this break on your tongue: They met him in the course of an official act. Maybe he was driving too fast in the tempo 30 zone at 35 km/h? Then the police asked him if he had a ID, and then they said: Oh, you don't have one? Are you here illegally? Well, don't do anything! Where did you find yourself? Oh, on Engerthstraße. All right, if we do. You need again, if you drive too fast again, we'll come by. I mean, that's crazy! He'll be arrested immediately. Someone who is illegally staying here is simply released again and then it is said that you know where he is going to be. This is crazy, Mrs. Interior Minister – and you are sitting there, really have the cutting to sit down and say that you are doing everything great, that your asylum package is working and that everyone is very proud of you. – Please don't hesitate, Mrs. Minister, and you know that very well. These stories, which you have been consciously looking at us for months, will still fall on your mind. Mr Amon, your first sentence, when you spoke here, was: “We want your concerns.” You should finally worry, then you might not lose all the choices! [[call to the FPÖ.]] That is also the fact. We take seriously the concerns of people and the population – and that is the difference. That is why we are winning the elections and you are losing them, Mr President. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Madam Minister for the Interior, let us really write this to the main book: Stop bringing the Austrian population around on the nose! Stop planting and fooling the Austrian population! [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] That's what people have in this...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22700	Madam President, you have said before yourself that, despite your emotionality, you are trying not to call for an order in your manner, but you have not moderated yourself, but quite the contrary. And that's why I give you a “plant” and so on a call for order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: She said something else!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'm trying to get to the end of the sentence because your speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22751	I really do carry this call for order with dignity, because in fact, the call for order should apply to the Government Bank and, in particular, to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22786	The issue of calls for regulations provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council is that we should uphold the dignity and the state of the House. Unfortunately, that was not the case in that case, and that is why the call for order came. Next, Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22810	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear – especially young – guests at the gallery! Greetings also to everyone in front of the televisions! I'd like to tell you about something splendouring. Last night there was a very exciting event with a scientist. It is called Elisabeth Wehling and has been analyzing the political language for years, i.e. the terms and the political language we use form our consciousness and how to frame topics with certain frameworks that are set – i.e. frame. It has talked a lot about the current refugee policy and about how to talk about protection seekers. It was interesting that she said that those seeking protection are defined in the current debate as so-called natural violence, as something dangerous, as something we must fear from – with the language, with terms such as “refugees wave”, “refugees” et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Mr President, I know the liberals are very happy to make interim reports, but perhaps you could listen to the other people from time to time. [[Abg. Schimanek: He just corrected you!]] Yes, thank you for confirming the thesis. With terms and with this particular political language, one defines those who seek protection who have become victims of certain conditions, such as war, persecution, torture and political persecution. I believe that this is most unconscious, and above all many unconscious, who are constantly exposed to this language, namely our citizens. With this language, with these tricks, one makes language out of the victims. They act as if they were the ones we must be afraid of, because they would come into waves and wash us away like natural forces. Thus, it is possible to define the victims of war and persecution as perpetrators of which we are supposed to have to protect ourselves. [[Abg. Peter Wurm:... perpetrators had victims!]] - Thank you for the calls. I'll look at them in the minutes if you allow. I don't want to waste my short speaking time. The situation is, rather, reversed: It is about people fleeing from persecution, from torture, from the bombs of Assad, from the smiters of the so-called Islamic state and from all possible fascists of this world. The situation is that these people are victims of the conditions and that we are those who have the opportunity to give them protection they need. Yes, this protection cannot only be guaranteed by one country alone. Yes, we need common solutions. At last, we need a common European asylum policy and, by the way, a European migration policy, because what is very often turned under the carpet in these political discussions by many – unfortunately also by the Minister of the Interior – is that if a person is legally resident in the EU and gets a permanent right of residence – which is possible after five years of EU law – this person can move, stop and settle in all EU countries. That is to say, a "national solution" – under quotations – is no longer possible in the EU because, if there are very different migration policies, people who are legally resident in the EU can also move to other countries that may have a completely different migration policy. That is why there can only be common solutions. In this respect, I would like to address the Greek Press Conference, Mrs Innenminister, whom you have called together with your colleague Sebastian Kurz. You have to imagine this: Our Minister of the Interior and our Foreign Minister invite us to an international conference, the EU does not participate in it, Greece does not, of course, participate in this conference, although the consequences in Greece will be completely felt, namely by the fact that hundreds of thousands of refugees in Greece cannot, cannot be redistributed, nor will they be redistributed – according to current conditions – and that Greece should assume all responsibility for the 28 EU countries. [[Call the ÖVP: Is that bad?- Oh, my God!]] This is a disastrous policy that will lead to a humanitarian emergency in Greece, and that is what Greek politicians and politicians and the relevant government members are now saying quite openly. They complain that Austria plays a devastating role here – precisely the Austrian Federal Government – with a line that says to all countries on the Western Balkans route: Close your borders so that no one gets through! All should beach in Greece, please! The fact that they have to waste in Greece or eat out of the trash or are homeless to Zig thousands does not interest us, because we want to put pressure on Greece. Second currency: Germany was not invited to today's Greece and Germany extortion conference either. At the same time, however, Minister for Foreign Affairs Kurz Germany is: We now want an answer from Germany, how many you want to record. – That’s interesting! Do not invite Germany to take the consequences out of Germany and then send Germany to the media: We want you to change your policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the so-called European Party of European People's Party! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] This is not a European policy. This is not a solidarity policy. This is not a sustainable policy. Please return to reason! There can only be common solutions, both in the issue of refugees and in the issue of migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22907	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22928	Madam President. Mrs. Mikl-Leanner! High house! I wanted to thank my colleague Steinacker, who always brings us something from the world literature. I took this as an example and also read to you something: “(...) if I cannot inspiratione love, I want cause fear (...)”. This is from Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, because the request from the Stronach team reminded me a little bit. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] This request is a written “Frankenstein”, and it is intended to be caused by fear. The Stronach team screws on the body of unemployment the head of security policy and instrumentalizes refugees to create fear. This is not only worrying, it is also dangerous. [[Abg. Lugar: Even the minister herself is afraid!]] There are half-truths, untruths, there are causal relationships that do not exist that only heat up the mood and do not solve it. Let us take a closer look at this question, which begins with unemployment: “Unemployment is at record level and winter is at the door.” – Yes, winter is coming. Then comes two paragraphs on unemployment, then missing economic programmes and also decisive or decisive investments in the field of economics. – So there you are again far away from economic liberalism and wish for an intervening state. All right, let's see. This is about security policy, which is also criticised: "There is also a standstill from a security policy point of view. Individual measures are being taken, but there is a clear lack of an overall approach.” – It is not further explained that there are only flattites. [[Abg. Lugar: Just keep going, just read it out!]] At the end it says: “All in all” – the “n” is actually present – “gives a variety of open questions and problems” – the “it” is also missing – “in connection with the continuing refugee crisis.” There will then be transferred from the previous introductory paragraphs to the topic of refugees as if there was a connection here. [[Abg. Lugar:... no connection, not at all!]] It's being constructed once again. We know this pattern from other questions or debates that we have. Then come the questions about this request, which relate only to the illegal residents and return to the year 2010. Of course, one also has to say that the refugee crisis – or what the people seeking protection so to speak – did not use it with full force until last year, although it was of course years earlier, what is breaking in on us – tag Lampedusa. But if one is arrested in small-scale national thinking and does not recognize the problems at European level, then no fence will be able to protect us from them either. We have not looked for this challenge, it has come to us – as in this saying: sometimes you have a tie that you have not chosen –: You just have to make the most of it. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (with ironic cheerfulness) That's true in that case!]] In this question, the introduction and the main part simply do not match, and to confuse causality with correlation is indeed one of the biggest deficits in political discourse or social discourse at all. – So much for this request. That's all you need to say on the content. Perhaps, because the opportunity exists, you can take out two thematic complexes that are dealt with in it: Unemployment at record level. - Yeah, that's right. While the budget represents the political will cast in figures, the unemployment rate is, as it were, a measure of willlessness. There is something like collective multi-organ failure. If there is a rise in Austria, it is debt and unemployment. The so-called labour market summit has also contributed little to improving this situation, certainly too late and too little. There are painful discussions on ceilings and guidelines instead of talking about what is perhaps the limit in unemployment. But no matter how high this limit or a guide value would be, it would be no surprise if these limits were to be exceeded again, and that is not ironic either. In summary, one can simply say that this request may show some areas of problem in which the government provides a bit of a maure performance or, as far as the labour market is concerned, it fails to do so. The link between the labour market situation and those who are unlawfully resident in Austria can only be of a perplexed spirit, as there is obviously a lack of precision and understanding, because those who are not legally resident in Austria cannot be included in these labour market statistics. We have a crucial year in 2016: Either we will solve the challenges together at European or national level or we will be back in a few years behind a fence like then in the Cold War.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23021	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23042	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Let's see what the learned policeman has to say about this! At the beginning, however, I would like to point out something to Mr Amon, who is unfortunately no longer here. He has been very excited here that the Minister of the Interior has been withdrawn from the meeting of the Interior Ministers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] Mr Amon should be aware, however, that we are the People's Office, the highest body in this state, and that it must be natural for Mrs Innenminister to stand before the people she has to serve, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Schönegger: She's here!]] That is why, I believe, it is not an unreasonable thing that we have quoted the Minister of the Interior here on a very, very important issue. Mr. Otto Pendl, you know, I very much appreciate you, but you said: We're a rule of law, and there's everything fine and everything great. – So I would have expected from a rule of law something different than to open up borders and get everyone in, just because the Mrs. Merkel – and, Mrs. Korun, you should write it behind your ears – has invited everyone to do so in an unprecedented degree of international migration. We're supposed to deal with this now, and you're now crying out the crocodile tears for the Greeks, who are all going here with the ferry and sending off. I think there's a little bit wrong with the greens. Mr Pilz has already gotten a little bit of it, in which direction it has to go, but is just a little more obtrusive. But let me come to the question we are talking about here: I think the question has already been answered correctly. I have read “The Press” today, and there are some significant statements from the speaker of the Ministry of the Interior, who said: “After the case where 71 refugees were suffocated in a truck, the number of controls was increased (...)”, thus increasing the number of illegal seizures. We have to let that break on the tongue. As a learned police officer, I know more when more controls are taken up, that this was probably no different before, then they came into the country illegally and were not registered here. Now the question is: Are they continuing to Germany, to Sweden or what do I know where to go? – If you can't understand that, you can't say that with 100% security. But with the numbers you have checked, you can say it with certainty. What gives me to think then is, “It is also fact that the Ministry of the Interior has no idea how many of the people who were picked up are still in the country (...)”. I would like to go a little closer on this – as a learned police officer. [[the speaker reads from his documents]] It says: “... or they are invited to leave the country voluntarily. Checks of whether this trip is actually happening are very rare”. Ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? – That means that in principle every illegal sent on the way is said you have to leave the country. We also know what it is all about, and, of course, as a trained police officer, I know that certain countries do not take back the illegals or say they are not of us because they did not have papers with them, and so on and so on, we know the game. Then they'll be sent on the trip, and what do these people do? – These people must be as submarines, as an illegal here in Austria. Some, as I have said, are walking to Germany, to Sweden or what I know where, but many are there, without regulated income, without residence permits. What are they feeding on? – Whoever looked at the “Report” yesterday saw it. There are a lot of drug problems in Vienna. You only have to drive with the U6 once, then you will see that – if you don't look like a police officer – you're going to deal in front of your eyes. This is going on and going on, that has increased enormously, probably also because of the criminal law reform. If you look at § 70, “Companies”, then it is so – that everything has to be loosened – that one has to be caught several times when dealing or practicing crimes in order to prove the commercial to him. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] So there's a door and a gate. That's probably what you've done to make these people have an income. Then let's keep looking: Again and again we have been discussed here that we have no proposals. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we very much have proposals. Clearly, we have always called for these camps in Africa, which are paid by us or by the EU to bring people out of the country and feed them there until they know again which state they are coming from and in which they return. That's how you can solve this loosely. So, too, we would not have this street crime with the drug dealers and not all the problems these people cause – burglaries, thefts, and, and, the whole palette, I don't want to repeat it now. There's a lot going on here, and there's a lot you can do. This request has its power very well! And if you hit the paper, you can read it now: “As submarines, refugees living in Salzburg had provided an increase in property and addiction crime in 2015, says the Salzburg police.” So these are the evidence. You have answered correctly here, Mrs Federal Minister, but I think that is a big problem that we have to accept, and here we should make solutions and not just good statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23101	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:52:57]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23122	We are now entering into a brief debate on the request of the honourable Members. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Report by Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on disclosure of the Bank-Austria-Pensionsdeal, on the application 1504/A(E) of Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, on a deadline until 24. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I give the floor to Mr Magistrate as the first speaker. Loacker the word. You have 10 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23158	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers at the gallery! We're coming to an Austrian cum now. This requires a little attention because it's a little complex. Mr Belakovich-Jenewein has here made a very important request, which is under pressure on time. Why? – 3 300 employees of the former central savings bank of the municipality of Vienna have been entitled to pension directly against UniCredit Bank Austria AG and have been excluded from the usual pension insurance by § 5 ASVG. ==References== On 1 December 2015, a business agreement of UniCredit Bank Austria AG was concluded with the operational council there, according to which these pension rights of employees are transferred to the pension insurance institution. In March 2016, i.e. relatively soon, and therefore the deadline application. Exciting at this process – which has already found access to the media – are several things: First of all, the pensions of the 3 300 employees concerned are reduced by this process. There is a discount payment, but it never comes to the extent that the reduction corresponds to the reduction. That's where you're wondering: What works council on God’s sacred ground agrees to a reduction in the demands of its own employees? What is the point of such an operational council? Which motives can he have to agree to a reduction in employee claims? – Several hundred employees have ordered lawyer Dr. Gerlach to represent them in this case, and there is already the next question: Why do the employees of the highly organized bank-austria staff not go to a classic trade union attorney, but to Dr. Gerlach? – It's very exciting what's going on. With a role might have played that the Head of the Central Works Council, Mr Lehner, is also the Board of Directors of the AVZ Foundation, and this AVZ – the Share Management Savings Foundation – is also liable, among other things, for the pension obligations that Bank Austria has towards these employees. As the Board of Directors of this AVZ Foundation, he is of course also personally liable and could therefore have a personal interest. This AVZ foundation, in turn, provides annual profits to the Technology Fund of the city of Vienna. There is therefore a strong financial interest of the city of Vienna that this foundation works well, and the city of Vienna is second-lined for these pension obligations of Bank Austria. All right, so we've already discovered a few interests, but now we're still going to be exciting. If perhaps the works council has a personal interest in reducing the employee's claims, where does the call for the union, which is otherwise always on the agenda for the reduction of employees' claims? Where is the cry of the Chamber of Workers? – Yes, Mr Katzian, I very much expect your speech. [[Abg. Katzian: I'll tell you right now!]] Also interesting is the question of how such a business can even come about, because UniCredit Bank Austria AG has media reports on 31 December. December of the old year € 1.9 billion provisions for pension entitlements dissolved while at the same time setting aside for the transfer to the pension insurance institution €1.6 billion new provision, and € 312 million they have disbanded in provisions. So, obviously, one has tried to make a Reibach. In order for the company to make this provision shift – to resolve a provision and form a new one – there must be a legal basis for this. That must have substance. It is not possible to push anything back and forth in its balance sheet, as there are tax legislation. Now you can ask yourself: The Bank Austria's Board of Directors agreed on this on the basis of an operating agreement, which the Minister said earlier this morning: Well, that's not how it works, there's another law? Were they so negligent, or were they so presumptuous as the board of directors on the basis of an operating agreement that obviously does not deal with such an approach to carry out a business on behalf of third parties? It is alleged that the Ministry of Social Affairs did not know anything, it claimed that it did not make any commitments either. But now we have to remember where we are. We are in the Republic of Austria. Yes, the country is small, everyone knows everyone, and Mr Lehner, the central works councilman of Bank Austria and the board of directors of the AVZ Foundation, is on the GPA Regional Board. [[Abg. Lopatka: Now it's coming!]] There has also been a strike threat to the staff of Bank Austria in connection with the intended sale of the private customer business, and there the Works Council had the full support of the GPA. In my opinion, it can be assumed that the GPA knew very well what this operating agreement is about, with which employees' rights are cut. Mr Katzian said to the daily newspaper “The Press”: “We support the Works Council 100% in its efforts to maintain jobs and socially acceptable solutions.” Clearly, Mr Katzian considers such pension reductions to be a socially acceptable solution. He will explain in his speech exactly how this is going. And if my colleague, Mr Katzian, has now known, I would very much doubt that the Ministry of Social Affairs has not known anything about these processes, otherwise we are very close to each other in the trade union and the government. It would be really surprising if the walls had been kept closed here. The Minister of Social Affairs has secured this morning with an innocence mine on the government bank, no, he knows nothing, his predecessor did not know anything. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Kassinger.]] Mr. Hundstorfer certainly did not say anything when handing over to Minister Stöger, and the staff did not say anything to each other – this is always happening very quickly. Now I have to hold here: I do not believe this to be the Minister of Social Affairs. I would also personally tell him if he were there, but unfortunately he is not there. But if it were true that the Ministry of Social Affairs had not made any commitments there, I would ask myself: Did UniCredit Bank Austria really resolve these provisions without any legal basis and set up a new one, without a legal basis, purely on the basis of an operating agreement? Have they really made a billion-high return shift without legally explaining whether this is keeping quite certain? If you claim this, UniCredit Bank Austria would have been very, very badly advised – carefully expressed. If you claim this, then assume to the rulers that they have taken legal major risks. Against such bank boards, financial market supervision would have to come up with a plan – if that were the case – because financial market supervision is punishing bank directors for much smaller than billions of provisions. I don't think so to the Minister. I don't think anyone who looks closer to the matter that the Minister believes. The GPA knew that, in my opinion, the Ministry of Social Affairs also knew, and in my opinion there have been promises that you will do so. That is why Mr Belakovich-Jenewein's request is to reveal what happened to papers before and back, what has been held during discussions and on which basis decisions have been made, important and correct, and also urgent, because the whole thing was on the 1st floor. It is expected to enter into force on 1 March. I claim that UniCredit Bank Austria AG has relied on the commitments of the Ministry. I think they've tried to get this deal out of the public. Now something more exciting – this will explain to us Klubobmann Lopatka afterwards –: If it takes a law to renovate that, then it takes a majority for the law. And there would also be exciting: Where is the ÖVP interest that Bank Austria can outsource its pension obligations and put it around the taxpayer? Who has an interest in it on the ÖVP side? So there are a lot of dark situations of interest. It screams that much is still being brought to light. That is why I would ask you to agree to this request for deadlines.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23216	Mr Katzian is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23245	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is so great if a colleague, a Member who does not allow the trade unions to be washed off, at once, and explains how weak the works council is, he would not have been able to say that the trade union is so quiet and so on. Mr Loacker, this is because you are now very dressed in your statements, because everyone who has to follow or follow your speeches on a case-by-case basis knows very well: Your interest is completely different. Their interest has never been with the employees and not even with the employees at the trade union. So don't make yourself here and don't pretend to be They would be interested in ensuring jobs there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Did you know or not?]] Ladies and gentlemen, watch out for a little, I'm telling you a little bit about how trade union work works. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No,...!]] We have a fact, and we, too, cannot discuss it away, namely that there have been massive changes in the financial sector since the financial crisis in Austria and in many other European countries, that the business models of banks and savings banks are no longer expected to be in order, and that new players will be on the market, such as Google with a bank license in Ireland and many more. [[Abg. Kassinger: On the matter!]] Digitalisation will continue to drive the process of change, and in Austria we have the situation that we have 70 000 employees at the highest level in the money and credit sectors, and at present there are less than 63 000. We must expect that, over the next five years, 10,000 to 15 000 colleagues will lose the job. These are good jobs, partly highly paid jobs that are lost here. We are trying to take into account in all homes and also the framework conditions in the collective treaty negotiations which are now under way and to see how framework conditions can be created in order to ensure as many jobs as possible in the future. Bank Austria: In October and November it has already been written to death, newspapers have entitled: That's the end; That's it with Bank Austria; and so on. UniCredit has presented its plan. It has essentially included three priorities relating to Austria: The Eastern Europe business is scheduled to take place in Italy by 2018, with around 800 employees taking place, and the exit from the retail business, i.e. from the private customer business, or a restructuring. Then, in November, there was the operating meeting, which, of course, was headed by the works council president. A few words to Adi Lehner, because you mentioned this: If he was the head of the works council of the largest bank, it would be illogical if he did not sit on the board of the union in the federal state where he is. So don't pretend that's a special thing! Adi Lehner and his colleagues have clearly put on the table at the business meeting with over 2,500 people in the Austrian Center, what the Bank's intentions are, what has been done, and have also asked the staff how they should act as works councils and works councils in this debate. At this meeting, goals have been clearly discussed and it has been decided that notices should be avoided that there must be negotiations between the company and the works council, that there is respect for existing contracts and the rights of employees, and that the most important objective is that the bank be preserved as a universal bank and that the retail business is not damaged by Cerberus or anyone else. We as a union have made it clear there, and I as a person also have that there... – Yes, we can discuss it afterwards. [[Abg. Kassinger: Why did you do it then?]] I said quite clearly there: We are on the side of the workforce and on the side of the Works Council. If there is a negotiation in the company, the negotiators for an operating agreement of the Works Council are on the one hand, the management on the other. We have accompanied and supported this, and the corresponding agreements between the Management and the Works Council have been reached, namely that those employees who have worked in the CEE sector will still have their jobs in Vienna and that the retail business will not be sold and the Universal Bank will be preserved. This process has saved 3,000 jobs that would otherwise have been gone – with the highest probability. And part of the whole deal is also that the people who were in the bank-specific pension system are changed to ASVG. Last sentence: The Bank has been legally insured with several opinions, and has also informed the Works Council that this is possible. There is the clear statement of the Social Minister of the morning and of 14 days ago in the Federal Council. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, he said...!]] My level of information is: At present, the data in the pension insurance institution are calculated accordingly. All these are facts, everything else is speculation. It is funny to discuss speculations, ladies and gentlemen, if you try to hang around the Rudi Hundstorfer, which will by the way be a good President of the Federal Republic of Germany for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23365	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23407	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. What connects me with the chairman of the FSG is the concern about jobs, but this is not the question here. The question is, and you have not given an answer to it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] If a profit-making company believes that pension obligations entered into by the company no longer have to be held responsible here, we are not in the process of the Austrian taxpayer doing so for this profitable company. That is the point to make quite clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, there is the idea that the bank, which is called Bank Austria, but it has been owned by Italy since 2005, will spend the night questioning activities in the House, which are rightly questioned in the House, also by my previous speaker from NEOS, that you simply stay overnight – ruck, zuck! – €1.9 billion in built-in pension reserves. At the same time, Bank Austria – we do not know, but we suspect it was the media to be able to resort to an old regulation and save a high three-digit million to the Austrian taxpayers. It certainly is not with us to say that directly! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Oh!]] It can't be that everyone else has to make 22.8 percent of the pension contribution and the management of Bank Austria believes that with 7 percent, it can be found here. This is certainly not possible. On the one hand, the taxpayer is to be asked to cash out, on the other hand, to make this as acceptable as possible to the workforce. The talk here is of €500 million, i.e. € 150 000 in hand money. That's what I'm saying: There are private contracts entered into by Bank Austria, for which Bank Austria has the responsibility and not the Federal Government or the Austrian taxpayer. We have not heard anything specific about this today by the Minister for Social Affairs, nor am I now wiser, nor after your speech. [[Abg. Muchitsch: The Minister of Social Affairs has said that it should be treated equally in the ASVG!]] – Well, but then it won’t be interesting for Bank Austria if it comes to equal treatment. [[Abg. Muchitsch: This is what the Minister of Social Affairs said in the morning!]] But there's another interest, Mr. Muchich. The city of Vienna now also has less liability for 1,9 billion euros. And if I owe more than €5 billion – this has tripled within seven years – I am of course glad if I have less liability overnight, at billions. It's 1.9 billion. This is, of course, a accompanying appearance, where I say: The city of Vienna has of course special interests here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] – Yes, but the city of Vienna will be discharged here overnight with 1.9 billion liabilities. [[Abg. Muchitsch: The Minister of Social Affairs has said that no improvement should be made, but should be treated equally!]] If he does, then he fulfills exactly what we expect: not an unequal treatment, but an equal treatment with all ASVG insured persons! Wonderful! Then what I wanted to say here is fulfilled. Then there is no need to negotiate much in the background if you are in favour of this equal treatment. Because that's what I'm telling you: There can be no additional burden on Austrian taxpayers. We are certainly not available for this. And the Minister of Social Affairs could have said this much more clearly today, then we would have saved this debate here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – As clear as you want to present it now, he has not expressed himself. But if it's so clear, it's all the more pleasing to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23514	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23535	Madam President. Mr Loacker, thank you for bringing my request to this meeting by your request for a deadline. I am also pleased that, obviously, there is not only a second, but even a third, group, which realizes that there is obviously a cow trade in progress. Mr Katzian, it is not as simple as you represent it. You said now: Perhaps we can save the 3,000 jobs. – But it’s only possible. You know, history would be quite different, there would be a job guarantee from UniCredit here. Then the whole thing would have a round picture, but it's not a round picture. In this context, I find it interesting that you, Mr Muchich, have been hiding on this subject for weeks. You don't even know if you're social speakers at all. You don't want to speak now either. In the morning you say, yes, we'll talk about all this anyway in the afternoon, but now don't talk to you at all. So obviously interested. You don't have this debate, or you'll deliberately become a co-cult. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have to disagree briefly with my previous speaker Lopatka: It would be nice if the debt of the city of Vienna would only amount to €5 billion, it is €13 billion. So much for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] But of course, it is clear that the city of Vienna is the first beneficiary here. And – I said it in the early days – I can't imagine an Austrian Social Minister making a policy for an Italian banking institution that charges taxpayers with a fee – this costs the Austrian taxpayer or contributor €800 million, with some pensioners, namely those 3,000 people, receiving much less pension, and the only benefit would be the UniCredit. You know, the whole thing has a little hurry, too, because Bank Austria says it wants to create facts. I am sorry, Mr Muchitsch, that has long been part of the Committee on Social Affairs. And the Minister of Social Affairs has not made himself clear. He said again today: I said everything in the Federal Council. I now have the minutes of the Federal Council, where the Minister for Social Affairs has said: “I got 84 questions. It is not possible for me to present these 84 questions in detail, especially since I did not work in this ministry at that time (...).” The Social Minister has not answered any question in the Federal Council. He then went on to say that he wanted to answer the whole thing: “My experts have come to the following conclusion that I would like to inform you accordingly about data protection.” And then he says a general Blabla on 84 questions. In reality, he did not answer a single question! So if that's a proper answer, I don't know. Mr Stöger, the Minister for Social Affairs, has not yet said anything about this. And at the end of the day, he said in the Federal Council, of course, there will be no such thing as this, since extra negotiation has to be done. He said that – and two days later, however, he again negotiated with Bank Austria. So what now? The Minister of Social Affairs lets Parliament die stupid, so to speak, because Social Minister Stöger is negotiating back and gives no information at all here. Today in the morning, he did not provide any information either. He's hiding on this subject just as you do. And that makes the whole story a little bit smoky, especially since we know that there is obviously the city of Vienna, which is the great benefit in the country. With all due respect, no minister in this Republic does something for an Italian bank. If he did, then he was a sharp misalignment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't want to put this in line with Minister Hundstorfer. I think much better, he did a little bit for his Vienna party friends at the last moment and saw that this blatant debt in Vienna is reduced a little so that the balance sheets can be a little nice. In my opinion, Vienna is already very close to the pleite. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I know that this is a little difficult for the Greens sitting in the boat, Mr Steinhauser, when you are in the coalition in Vienna and have everything to do with it. But that's exactly the problem. And there, Minister of Social Affairs, Hundstorfer, obviously was interested in helping his comrades a little bit, so to speak, just before he left for the presidential candidate. I said already in the early days, Minister Hundstorfer has made mistakes many times, only: In this case, I say quite honestly to you, I think that was already quite aware. [[Abg. Music: You condemn before something is on the table!]] That is why this request has also been made. We want to know what's behind it. He's supposed to reveal it, then all speculations are gone! Then all that you're going to do as rumors or other things would be gone. What is against disclosure? When was the first time we were negotiating? What has been promised to Bank Austria? This is something that no person can tell me – and this is exactly what Mr Loacker, as an employee of the Dornbirner Sparpasse, has set out much more precisely, here: If the bank managers act so negligently, then then there would have to be fire on the roof! It can't be easy that Bank Austria wants to create facts next week! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, Mr Muchitsch, we now need a meeting of the Committee, and urgently, before next Tuesday. It's hurrying! Otherwise, you'll make yourself a co-operator.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23605	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23626	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I rarely share the excitement of Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, but in this case the inconsistencies with regard to this matter are really great, and only now in the debate do I have more questions than just some kind of close answers come. On the one hand, I wonder – perhaps someone can tell me about the SPÖ: How should people be transferred next week if the legal basis is obviously missing when the ASVG is not intended for this form of transmission, because it is not people who leave the service, but people who are brought into another system? In one, I think, we all agree – no idea how the SPÖ colleagues stand, but I assume, as we do –: It cannot be charged and at the expense of taxpayers 3 300 people can be taken from one system to another, without the company – in this case the Bank Austria – paying that accordingly from the reserves. It's not understandable to me. I do not understand the SPÖ in this case. It would have to be transparent. Please explain to us or the Minister, as soon as possible in a committee – the transfer to the other system cannot take place next week if the legal basis is missing – how this should be done! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But not only us, but all the taxpayers and taxpayers who can't understand this. It is not against the fact that all people are slowly transferred to the ASVG, I think that is even good. At least we Greens, and in this respect I see agreement here in the House, want a uniform pension system. In so far as this is to be supported, it is only the question of whose costs it is. And in this case, please not at the expense of taxpayers! We also know that there are huge setbacks. Bank Austria, we have just discussed it again, has not only made huge profits – obviously €1.3 billion last year – but has also created reserves for this, namely my information after €2 billion. So, please, what happened and why can't Bank Austria pay for its share? It is about the employees and their safe pension that I can understand very well. I can also understand that the works council is behind it, but the works council should also be in favour of paying for it and not of the state. This question is really asking me, and I have not yet heard any explanation or answer in any form, except that I have now come along – including my colleague Eva Mückstein and others – that the employees in this company, ladies and gentlemen of the trade union, are already quite bad, because they are quite obviously the sufferers of this whole debate. I therefore advocate that we all take a close look and take Bank Austria into a duty and do everything we can to ensure that these people do well and that they receive a corresponding pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23683	Mr Schellhorn is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23705	Madam President. Mr. Lopatka said he's not gonna be smarter. It would actually be quite simple – I know that this is going to be difficult for you – because basically we became smarter when Mr. Katzian said that the economic crisis was to blame. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka]] Mr Katzian hereby confirms that there is an illicit state support. I mean – also colleague Schwentner mentioned the € 2 billion – that this is irresponsible, irresponsible to taxpayers, irresponsible to all of us. [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes!]] You're also in the government, or are you out of it now? [[towards ÖVP]] I don't know, I haven't found out yet. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Only 50 percent!]] In any event, I would also like to consider – not only about the Causa Bank Austria, but also in the dark cloud of the city of Vienna – that we have a lot of close-to-state businesses in which “earlypensionitis” has taken place wherever this virus has been established. The example Post: Until 2008, retirement changes had to be allowed by the Minister of Finance by the post – after 2009, the number of these retirement changes has surprisingly increased by 100 percent, by 300 percent by 2014. It is also interesting that in the case of retirement due to incapacity for service, sickness is set at 5.19 percent. If I do this in my company or have this value in my company, then the trade unions, the occupational physicians and the labour inspectorate to Halali blew against me. What happens then is almost a gotter hunt, because then I have no more chances. Therefore, this high rate is already a bit absurd and also the corresponding increase in the number of applications for retirement. You have to let that break on your tongue. Surprisingly, this figure has fallen in the last six to seven years with the ÖBB. I can also give you the reason for this, which is quite interesting – I would act as an entrepreneur, so I must say, that is nothing to blame if there is the opportunity to do so –: The head of staff, who is now doing this at the post, was previously the head of staff at the ÖBB! And you keep saying that these are individual cases. So there are more than 10,000 individual cases involving the taxpayer. It is therefore not right to argue that way! You know, the best recommendation would be that this head of staff come here and send this government in early retirement. That would be a blessing for this country, then we could talk about new constellations and then go a little further, otherwise the standstill building in that country will not break. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23776	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Amendment No 1504/A(E) by Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on a deadline of 24 June. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:27:00]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23812	I will resume the negotiations on points 6 to 8 of the agenda. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23837	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to draw up three points on the 2015 activity report in depth. First: the 2014 demand process. As a result, the implementation rate fell slightly from 2014 to 2015 by 5 percent. What's that about? – This is because the demand process concerns numerous cross-sectional audits, i.e. tests where the federal government, countries, municipalities are involved. Reforms are also being implemented in local authorities and are not necessarily completed at the time of demand. A very encouraging aspect of the implementation rate: Especially in the case of local authorities, it has been shown that these clearly rely more on the actions and recommendations of the Court of Auditors and implement them. Why do I mention this as positive? – This is positive insofar as communities use the free expertise to achieve the goal of even more economic, even more economical, even more useful, and above all, to achieve transparency. To the point of international: The Austrian Court of Auditors has a very strong networking role, coordinated and networked the accounting authorities in various countries with the aim not only to exchange experiences, but above all to enable the accounting authorities to act more independently and truly freely. Why is this so particularly sustainable? – It is also about the presentation of the finances that each audit firm calls for, and this is so important as to show that states are also transparent in their budgetary management, which in turn is essential for strengthening democratic systems. I would like to say another sentence on the cross-sectional examinations, which represent a particular challenge, especially as they have several participants. How can they be made even more targeted? – By harmonisations that one really forces – keyword: Harmonisation of accounting – in order to obtain comparable data in practice. I would like to take up something that the President-in-Office of the Council has already done. He mentioned that it is particularly desirable – and this supports the SPÖ Group most actively – to truly anchor the ban on speculation and the limits of liability of the federal states. We are still going to take the decision on the upper federal liability limits today, which is a real and important step, but it would be particularly important at the national level. Finally, to examine the Media Transparency Act: We have heard that this entails a huge administrative burden. Legal entities shall receive forms from the Court of Auditors, which they shall supply periodically. However, there are many empty messages, many misguided messages, and it would certainly be useful to choose a more effective approach so that this can really be used and the cost-benefit calculation is also true. It has already been said: The Committee will deal with this issue in a very detailed way. There seems to be cross-group consensus, to solve this issue seriously and constructively and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23891	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23912	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my speech, I am dealing with the request made by Mr Zanger and other Members of the Liberal and Democratic Group, which calls for an extension of the audit competences for the Court of Auditors. I would like to deal explicitly with the question: Do communities of 10,000 people need more tests? – I can clearly answer this question with a no. I myself have been a councillor for many, many years and would like to introduce a plea for our communities, also here in the House: The municipalities are a very important partner in the structure between the federal, state and local authorities on the question of competence. They take on important tasks: water supply, waste water disposal, school holders for compulsory schools, social care, care and much more. You'll ask me now: What does this have to do with the test competence? – This has a lot to do with it because the principle we have in the communities builds on the principle of self-government and community autonomy. [[Abg. Kassinger:... be there a control!]] And this is also the secret of success: that communities are always seen as a success model as a close-up provider. If one now thinks of the principle of self-management and self-responsibilities, then the first audit body in a municipality must, of course, be the own control committee and the own audit authority in the municipality. When Mr. Zanger speaks of the fact that the examination committees... [[Abg. Kassinger: But he can't check!]] – Of course he can test! If, therefore, Mr Zanger speaks of the fact that the examination committees cannot do so, I must also tell Mr Zanger that it is then urgently necessary to train his own municipal councils, because, of course, of course, the chairmen of the audit committees belong to us in Lower Austria of the Liberal Group. [[Abg. Kassinger: This is not about the community order at all!]] And if they can't do that, then there is an urgent need for training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So the first supervision has to be carried out by the communities themselves, and that is done to a high degree. Secondly, this is also important, because, of course, external control is also needed – also by the state governments, partly outsourced to the district authorities, external municipal supervision. There is a performance, which also works very well and there is also a lot of advice. You're on the right track, too. What I want to say: Communities also need external control, but they do not need double or triple control if the Federal Court of Auditors would still be properly controlled there. Of course, as a municipal representative – and I am also a local representative – we also confess ourselves to control, but please not triple or double, because, and that is quite clear, the current regime is sufficient. And one thing is quite clear: Of course, examinations bind competence of the test bodies, but of course also the institutions to be examined. Finally, a thought that is also very important to me, because it is always said that one needs to be done with the municipalities of Benchmark systems: They've been around for a long time. But the most important thing was just recently implemented, together with the President of the Court of Auditors, by our Minister of Finance: We now have uniform accounting rules at federal, national and local level. And only that makes a comparison of the communities really meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23981	Next item is the report by Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24003	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I should also like to take a short look at the Court of Auditors' activity report and start by saying: The Court of Auditors is a very valuable institution, I very much appreciate its work. And me. I would like to thank you very much for your work, Mr President, and for the work of your staff. I also see the Court of Auditors as an important regulatory measure for our Republic and would like to briefly address the cross-sectional audits contained in the activity report, because I see, because of the special position of the Court of Auditors, as a federal, national and municipal body, the possibility of carrying out audits on all territorial authorities. I see not only the examination process as an important element, but also, as you have already reported in the Committee, the advisory role in these cross-sectional audits. There were 16 cross-sectional tests last year. I would also like to highlight the consolidation measures and the limits of the liability of the countries. As an example, I would like to briefly bring in Upper Austria and its benchmarks of the municipalities; my colleague Hanger has just mentioned this. We in Upper Austria have for two years had a benchmark system, the so-called Benko, with which we compare the communities with each other. However, it is not only an IKD control tool, but it is also used very positively by the communities themselves to compare and learn from others and to achieve improvements. This is very well used by us and shows the potential for improvements. Finally, I would like to address very briefly the motion for a resolution on the obligation of truth to the Court of Auditors. I can only say: The Court of Auditors is a body of legislation. And you are basically obliged to give this truthful information. If a criminally false statement is made, then the courts are responsible anyway. Therefore, we do not see the need to amend § 288 and § 289 of the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24048	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24069	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Because Mr Hanger has now referred to the examination committees again: Mr President, you have obviously misunderstanded something. I did not mention that the colleagues in the audit committees are incompetent. [[Abg. Hanger: Yes!]] I said it's about acquiring skills. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] You can't tell me that people who are familiar with the subject, who have learned for years that may have studied it, that can't be better than – from me – a liberal audit committee observer – but there are also many ÖVPs in this function, because you are already third in us – who is in the working life. In a few hours, days, on a few weekends, he cannot acquire the know-how and knowledge that someone has learned and studied. [[Abg. Hanger:... Administrator!]] Well, where are we? Do you understand me?! – It’s not about agreeing with someone’s competence, but about the fact that someone can acquire skills in such a way that he is reasonable, done and in the sense of economy, transparency, objectivity and what I know, what everything can test. That is why, Mr Hanger. [[Abg. Hanger: He has a cash administrator who gets every investment!]] But obviously, when you try to talk to you, the barriers are going down. I don't understand. It is about creating comparability among equally designed communities – no more and no less. - Thank you, I hope it's right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24142	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24163	Madam President. Mr President. It is about the audit of the Federal State of Salzburg by the Court of Auditors. Due to the financial scandal, as you know, the financial conduct of the Federal State of Salzburg has largely fallen into disrepute. A survey carried out by the Court of Auditors from 2008 to 2013 revealed different key figures based on the documents and misstatements handed over to the Court of Auditors. The deception of the Federal Court of Auditors as the supreme test body through manipulated documents or false statements cannot be taken without consequences. However, President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser pointed out that such offences cannot be punished. This circumstance does not appear to be comprehensible and provides test results in a shaky light. The people, the taxpayers, certainly do not understand this. The task of the Federal Court of Auditors is to identify and identify shortcomings in the administration, financial conduct and the like. The Court's work will be null and void with manipulated documents as well as knowingly false statements, so that law enforcement appears necessary. I would like to vote in favour of the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24194	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-224 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Gamon, colleagues and colleagues on the Federal Law on the procedure for the assessment of ministerial drafts of government documents. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Gamon, colleagues and colleagues on resolving the shortcomings in the 2012 Party Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of its report 1004 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of its report 1005 of the supplements. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to agree to a sign on this. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[16:42:15]] 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report Series Bund 2015/6 (III-167/807 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors Series Bund 2015/4 (III-155/922 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24305	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Kucher is the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24335	Madam President. Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with the audit reports on the financial situation of the Technical University of Vienna and the follow-up review at the Austrian Patent Office, we are discussing two very critical audit reports from the Court of Auditors, which, I believe, show very impressively that audits and recommendations by the Court of Auditors and also critical debates in the Committee lead to major changes and consequences. I should therefore like to thank you very much, Mr President, for your team's support. Both test reports were very important and have set decisive impulses for improvements. Necessary changes and up-to-date modernisations have also been made in both institutions. We also spoke very intensively with rector Seidler of TU Vienna. It has been shown that the path for the Technical University was by no means easy, that it was difficult and painful, associated with many changes, but that the situation at the Technical University has clearly improved and stabilized, although risks remain. The developments at the Patent Office were also positive, where the follow-up examination found that a large part of the recommendations of the first test report had already been implemented, that a number of things had already been done in the meantime and many things are now being completed. This path is therefore to be described as quite positive at the Austrian Patent Office. This is a development that is very important to me personally, because the role of patents, intellectual property in our society and in the economic system is becoming increasingly important. These were factors such as cheap raw materials, transport routes, low labour costs, which have always been so central. In the future, however, the main factor is knowledge, the knowledge of how to produce goods, and the knowledge of how to offer services. That's a central question. We're in an international competition. Other countries – if I take China as an example – take a very, very offensive course. The Chinese patent strategy is to register 2 million patents per year by 2020. These are 2 million knowledge monopolies, which are of course also going through the Austrian economy. It's an international development. And the tension in this area is that in the audit reports, the Court of Auditors has also taken forward European developments in the field of national audit courts, and the recommendations are quite appropriate. EU-patent tag, where, of course, there will be important changes at European level under the leadership and cooperation of the Austrian Patent Office. These are not only national issues, but also increasingly international issues. Finally, what I would like to say about the Court of Auditors' recommendations: It is important that a large part is implemented. There have been a number of points which were extremely critical at the Patent Office: Double-tracks, which resulted in friction losses, but also expensive and completely incomprehensible dual functions. It is very important that this has been abolished and removed. Proposals that the divisional area, called serv.ip, should be integrated into the Patent Office, should be welcomed and implemented. I believe that in future protection of intellectual property we can build on these recommendations at the Patent Office. It will be up to all of us to further develop this institution's patent office in Austria and to make it even more sustainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24386	Next speaker: Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24408	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! First of all, I am dealing with the Court of Auditors' report on the financial situation of the Technical University of Vienna during the examination period. In principle, one can say that the Technical University enjoys great popularity among the students. That's a good thing. As a result of this good offer from the university, the registrations and the diplomas also increased significantly. This is mentioned in order to make some positive progress. The facts: The extensive audit of the Court of Auditors essentially highlighted the causes of the strained financial situation of TU Vienna. The areas of origin, personnel, building management, investment and participation were analysed. For example, the rents to be paid in the test period increased considerably more than the areas used by the university. About a third of the offices were not assigned to a person. The Technical University with its own Faculty of Informatics – and this is a bit of a schmankerl – commissioned the Veterinary Medical University to develop a new information system, and then the costs were exploded. The Court of Auditors' criticism was taken seriously, and a restructuring plan, in cooperation with the Ministry, nevertheless led relatively quickly to a consolidation course. In summary, we can say on this subject: Some criticisms of the Court of Auditors have already been implemented. The Court's recommendations or framework conditions have been adapted. There have also been errors in the field of personnel costs – keyword: Overpayment at cost control or just as described, committed during building management. Furthermore, there is a audit report from the Court of Auditors on the ORF's national studios. A few facts also about this: In 2012, the Landesstudios cost about €160 million. On the other hand, revenues amounted to about €40 million. Positive: The number of employees in the national studios decreased from 1 084 to 929 full-time equivalents. However, according to this test report, there are significant differences between the Landesstudios, for example in the savings potential or also in the production costs of the “Bundesland today” programme. Positive can be mentioned here: For example, Tyrol and Vorarlberg use a joint technical leader, which saved some €140,000 in about a year and a half. The synergies are certainly useful and should also be used in other national studios. In its audit report, the Court of Auditors presents some additional potential savings and efficiency gains, including an example of this in the commercial administration or in the production or editorial staff. Summary: A greater degree of cooperation between the Landesstudios would be more efficient and economical. To illustrate this, an example: A shot in Bad Aussee could be made without a doubt by a camera team from Salzburg, because this is closer than when you send it from the Landesstudio Graz. – This is just an example to show what savings there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24453	The next item is the report by Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24474	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! These two Court of Auditors reports - as mentioned by my previous speaker - deal, among other things, with the topic of state studios and also with direct awards from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Infrastructure, which I would like to highlight a little closer. First to the Landesstudios. It has already been shown that the Landesstudios have been compared throughout Austria in terms of their economic efficiency. I would like to offer my thanks to the Landesstudios: The productions from the national studios are very positive by the population, such as “Bundesland today” or similar broadcasts. There's nothing bad to say to the country studios, you have to praise them. But there are, of course, substantial savings for the economic sector. One simply sees that the management is obviously not well positioned. The things mentioned that one could perhaps put together commercial administrations, build up personnel structures accordingly, perhaps use one's own staff a little better and more efficiently, and also support productions by teams across the country border, I think, in the first part of a management training, taught. This should actually be a manager in the ORF – these don't really sleep on the hunger cloth and have salaries around € 300 000, € 400 000, which are above the Federal Chancellor's salary – to be able to implement. That is why we should perhaps look at the qualification in the future at the occupation of these management posts and not just at whether someone has a red party book. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – This one to the Landesstudios. The second part is for me, especially as mayor, something that inspires me when I look at the direct awards in the ministries. The threshold in the Federal Procurement Act has been increased from € 40 000 to € 100 000. We as municipalities have seen this very positively and actually the economy, because of course there is the possibility of bringing and awarding relatively quickly corresponding orders to the economy. Of course, this requires – at least in a community – that you obtain the corresponding offers, comparisons and comparisons, perhaps also the volume of the order to be fulfilled, something defined. So neither one nor the other is obviously only used in ministries, especially in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the BMVIT, and this is not exactly about small sums. So at a total volume of € 15 million or € 16 million in one ministry or in another, orders of € 10 million in one and € 11 million in the other ministry are given directly on this route. In other words, a person loosely awards an order of almost €100 000 without a comparison offer, without the scope of the order being clearly defined in any way. So there are orders of € 10 000, freely awarded by individuals without control. The fact that the whole can't be checked internally for years, over five years – from 2009 to 2014 – has already been doubted and challenges the whole system. What is of course in a community is that these things are being reviewed, is obviously not even possible in the ministry, because there are no documents to do so. As far as the Court of Auditors' recommendations are concerned, I would have liked them to be formulated a little bit sharper. The Court of Auditors only recommends that perhaps three tenders be made in the future. There are also chain contracts. That is, if you have a contract that makes up more than 100 000 €, you simply make a contract for several years and award three times 90 000 €, without making a corresponding controlling, a corresponding tender or obtaining a comparison offer. I know that the Court of Auditors should or can only make recommendations. But this could be formulated a little bit sharper, also with regard to the ministry. Or that the internal control system should be formulated at least half way, one could also formulate a bit tighter. I think that what should apply to the communities and smaller institutions should also apply to the Ministries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24541	The next item is Mrs Dr Moser's report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24562	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Can you explain to me why a screenglasses in BMVIT, in the Ministry of Transport, are two and a half times more expensive than buying the same product in the economic resort? Why does BMVIT buy at the double price to more than double the price like the BMW, the Ministry of Economics? Yes, that's a legitimate question. Thankfully, the President of the Court of Auditors has shown this. Only a totally banal example of the big problem of direct awards. You know – my colleague has done it – that the threshold has been increased, that is, the resorts can already be awarded directly at volumes below €100 000. So 99,999 €, and I can give directly, I don't have to write out, there's usually no comparative offer, there's no bidder procedure being made, it's practically not documented, according to the Court of Auditors, no transparency is introduced, we have an internal revision that seems to sleep. I have to read, for five years the internal revision of the procurement has not looked at exactly the finger. We do not have a systematic separation of demand, order and performance reduction. It's all so loose. And that is not the end of 100 000 or 99 999, as gratefully already has been said, when one is clever and, above all, refined. Most of the time, the President of the Court of Auditors has also presented this in his report – and this is the case with cabinet departments. Especially near the top of the resort, there is the fact that there are forgivenesss that have been pieced: first the first 99 000, then the second 99 000, then the third 99 000, then the fourth. All of this is the ground and somehow the field on which the friendly economy can flourish, I say now carefully, mostly flowers. Madam President, from your place of business, under your aegide, I would like to give an example even more. In the case of direct awards and also where tenders have been made in your former department, there has been some progress in the advertising measures where the Court of Auditors has rightly put its finger on them. Well, should we, as Members of Parliament, continue to look? – No, because it is about a volume of € 10 or € 11 million per year. 63 in the BMVIT or 73 percent in the economic resort will then be awarded directly. We don't see that. Now we have to do something. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] In his report, the President of the Court of Auditors proposed the introduction of standardised control measures. I think we have to make one request once again, that this will really be introduced, and I hope that then all the Members of this House will really be there, especially the mayors, who have to do with forgivenesss in their communities, and who know that the tax euro is very valuable and that we should be careful, and where there are personal liability. The RH also proposed uniform recording and procurement operations for all Federal Services. We have a federal procurement agency. There is practically this service station that can be ordered, the price comparisons make best offers and facilitate more or less procurement. Only this is rarely used – rarely until not at all – because it is not required by law that the ministries also deal with this institution, this service institution that makes it professional. - Yes, that's a mistake, we have to work on it. I hope there is a follow-up report, Mr President. A second abuse was mentioned with two sentences: Follow-up examination of the Patent Office. We still have these double salaries serv.ip and patent office as such, and the case of former managing director Rödler is still not completed. – Minister Stöger said there was a contract under black and blue: Gorbach, personally, a contract with Rödler that he can obtain two salaries, although that was not mentioned in the law. - Yeah, that's still a mistake.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24619	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24641	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I also dedicate myself to the chapter “Internal control system for direct awards in selected resorts”, because this is an example of how to measure by two measures. The main criticisms have already been raised. The two ministries of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Transport were selected. The criticism points range from the fact that there was no overview, the point that was not systematically recorded, to the lack of an overall review, and so one could continue to carry it out – it was already mentioned earlier. On the basis of this data situation, it is, of course, also difficult to comply with the information obligation to Parliament in an appropriate manner, and this has to be addressed clearly here, because if the relevant ministries act in such a way that they simply give things freely and make direct awards – we have already heard it: at the Ministry of Transport worth about €10 million, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs of about €11 million – this is already a point that cannot be ignored. Now I would also like to stress the need for a registration bank – this super-strength, important and great registration bank obligation has been introduced. We know how the response from the population is to how small companies suffer from it – taxi drivers, the host who lock up in a row. I always notice it myself when I drive the taxi: The drivers now have to enter the drinking fee extra, which is extremely long and is a bureaucratic effort. Here the fair little – “small” I do not want to know negatively – working people are punished, and on the other hand, the ministry spends money by direct award, orders are freely awarded, millions of amounts are awarded without consultation, without four-eye principle. This is a condition, ladies and gentlemen, which cannot be left to stand. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] In this context, I should also like to point out that, of course, we will continue to do so, because we are on the side of taxpayers, as well as the President of the Court of Auditors with his team and the Court of Auditors in general, because if they do not, and if so, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors will continue to do so. We must also reject these Ministries, especially the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24695	Next, Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24716	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen. In my statement, I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the ORF's national studios. The report covers the period from 2008 to 2014. In my opinion, the Austrian radio service fulfils its public service mission very well, and I also consider the overall strategy of the ORF to be very positive. According to the Head of Department of Finance in the ORF, the ORF saved €50 million from 2008 to 2014. In total, this is a reduction of 162 jobs; Synergies in the Landesstudios are better used than before. The main focus of the nine national studios is undoubtedly the programming and broadcast of the "Bundesland-today" broadcasts. Between 2008 and 2014, around 6 percent of production costs were saved. This was possible in so far as it was sustainablely well managed, but also because the budget was kept in total by all the national studios. However, the ORF and the national studios also face an ever-increasing private competition, but I can mention that they can maintain quality with the private channels without any doubt. For example, the market shares of the “Bundesland-today” broadcasts remained almost the same: In 2008, the "Bundesland-Today" broadcasts had a market share of 58 percent, and in 2015 it was 55 percent. I mention positively that the Landesstudio Burgenland could even increase its market share in 2015 by 5 percent compared to 2014. I would also like to mention positively that the competence center for the group programmes is located in the Landesstudio Burgenland and is available for this every year at €2.2 million. The future challenges of the ORF are quite clear: clear operational targets, further compliance with the budget path, but also the preparation and broadcast of a new broadcast, namely early television. This early television is a cooperation between the central office of the ORF and the state studios. ==References====External links== March of this year offered and sent from 6 to 9 o'clock on Mondays to Fridays in ORF II. Early television, as I mentioned earlier, will be on the 29th. ==References====External links== It is planned that another federal country will be used weekly to design this early television. Another positive side effect is that this new series – sent from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Mondays to Fridays – also creates around 50 jobs in the state studios. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I wish the ORF as a public-law radio, but also its staff for the future all the best, to our consumers further informative and interesting information programmes. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24771	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24792	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In my speech of the follow-up review in the Austrian Patent Office as well as in the BMVIT, I can devote myself to the state of implementation of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors from 2012. It should be noted that the Court’s recommendations have been largely implemented, but it must also be noted that there is still room for further improvements and that the cost and performance bill of the Patent Office should be expanded into an effective control instrument. The Ministry of Infrastructure has implemented two fully and five partially of the eight revised recommendations. The Court of Auditors' recommendation that revenue from European patent fees should no longer be transferred to the budget of the Patent Office, but that it should cover only more of its costs, has not been implemented. The Court of Auditors had proposed that instead of paying revenue from the European Patent Fees to the Patent Office, they should pay only their administrative costs. This measure considers the Court of Auditors to be a prerequisite for an economically efficient management of the high-tech sector of the Patent Office. The Patent Office itself, in turn, did not implement six, seven in part and a recommendation from the 14 revised recommendations of the preliminary report. The requirement to develop a risk strategy for the Patent Office, to assess the volume of precautions and to derive from it appropriate risk prevention instruments was implemented at least in part by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Patent Office. Although the budgetary risk controlling showed possible loss of revenue, it was not possible to develop effective alternative actions for the Patent Office for these possible loss of revenue. The Patent Office has also reduced its staff status, but the BMVIT project for the task criticism and reorganisation of the Patent Office has not yet been completed. As a result, the existing double structure of the high-quality and partial-justice sector results in an annual cost of € 700 000 for taxpayers. The recommendations of the Court of Auditors on the management of the Patent Office on the basis of the existing cost and performance invoice and on the termination of the employment of servants of the Patent Office in the serv.ip have not been implemented, instead the number of persons employed in both the Patent Office and the serv.ip has even increased from 2010 to 2014. I should like to sum up once again the essential recommendations: The aim was to cover the administrative costs for European patents – only these more – which should be offset by secondary employment, the resolution of the serv.ip profit deposit would also work and the cost and performance bill would also be extended to include a control instrument with a target Ist comparison. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24838	Next word: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24862	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a brief look at the Court of Auditors' report on TU, the Technical University of Vienna, which has highlighted the financial situation more precisely, because this report reads a little like a criminal novel: There is the rector Skalicky, who was active at the time and who had a rather loose hand in the award of funds and orders at his university and often gave up tendering. . I would like to take two particular cases, which are particularly important. There is, on the one hand, the TISS, which is an internal information system for the application of courses and general management of studies: That should have cost 160 000 €. The contract was awarded to a professor of TU itself without any call, but so that it doesn't look so stupid, one has done a shaming and circumvention business with the University of Veterinary Medicine, which then cooperated with the TU. The Court of Auditors also calls this: There are elements of fake and circumvention operations in this project. The costs are extremely exploded: Originally, €160 000 was planned; the current rector, Mrs Seidler, then referred to us in the Court of Auditors' Committee as the previous cost of this project. That's 11 million euros to this day. – So 160 000 € versus 11 million €, which is already an incredibly inefficient use and a waste of tax money. The whole thing was also actually criminal, which the two women – that is, the two subsequent rectors – have recognized and therefore reimbursed self-addiction against the university itself. As so often after a criminal business, women came to clean up, and they did. The persecution of the responsible persons – says: Skalicky – has passed in the sand; the investigations have been stopped. The actual circumvention was the withdrawal of sales tax of € 700 000. This has now been paid down, but the damage remains, and the pianist of the whole story is that this information system is still not working properly and cannot do what was originally planned. The second example I would like to mention is the following: TU has a number of buildings spread across the city, and there is the project "TU University", which is designed to restore the buildings on one side and to somehow grow up the university campus. And this project also started with a direct award from Mr. Skalicky: This was an advisory agreement with a company that was supposed to have created a quality manual at the beginning. She then delivered it, but that was a quality manual she had written before, one for a brewery. I don't know what she thought about it – maybe in a chemical laboratory there are also many tubes for liquids, and then you take that from the brewery; maybe nobody notices it?- Oh, my God! It's noticed, but you paid it anyway. And one has continued to employ this company and has provided it with even much larger orders than this original direct award. A third point, which is also very clear from the Court of Auditors' report, is that: TU was in a very difficult financial situation, had to draw up an early warning report to the ministry because the finances had been out of control, and the brisante is in the process of paying the highest premiums at the height of the financial crisis. So this is already a particular threat, with which public funds have been used to work at the university. I am a little sluggish about how this could have been done without any consequences, because in the meantime, as I have said, nothing has happened to Mr Skalicky, as the following rectors, has been cleaned up. Mr. Skalicky was then in the Council for Research and Technology Development for many years as an adviser to the government – despite these shaming and circumventing operations and direct awards and unclean practices – and he is still in the University Council in Leoben as a university council. And I'm actually wondering if someone who is responsible for such a financial crisis and such direct gifts and criminal stories is actually suitable to sit in the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24904	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24926	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Report of the Court of Auditors on the Patent Office, current developments and future plans of the Patent Office. The Court of Auditors noted that the level of staffing has been reduced, but there are still double structures, Mr President, that is out of question. As a result, additional costs of around €700 000 a year – that's not a small thing either – and I wonder why the patent office needs a subsidiary at all. If the Patent Office and the subsidiary were to be grouped together, which is urgently necessary, then there will automatically be no additional jobs, ladies and gentlemen. Then the Patent Office, which we have already heard today, will be able to make a strong contribution to the development of research and technology in the future. That would be a right direction that could be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e24953	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The vote on each committee request shall be taken separately. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-167 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of the Court of Auditors' report? – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 10: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-155 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. [[17:17:20]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors Series Bund 2015/1 (III-136/923 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors Series Bund 2015/2 (III-139/983 d.b.) 13. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report Series Bund 2014/15 (III-127/984 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25032	We come to points 11 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no wish for oral reporting. The first is Mrs Mag. Becher in word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25060	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the 2014/15 report on the location concept in the Federal Schools area. This package was decided in the Council of Ministers in February 2009 and contains the following educational principles and objectives: the reduction of the maximum number of school students, the forced and the extension of full-day school forms, the redesign of the school's living space through improvements for teachers and students, and the continuation and compression of the education offer, i.e., the adaptation of this to the changed settlement structure. A total of €1.6 billion has been made available for this package, and this is a huge package and shows how much education the government and the National Council are worth here. The Court of Auditors has given a good witness to the implementation of the package by Minister Heinisch-Hosek, and this can also be derived from the recommendations, namely: A particularly positive aspect is given in point 16 of the conclusions on the establishment of the maximum number of students. The Court of Auditors confirms that the class sizes have decreased, except for the BAKIPs and the social pedagogical institutions. Another point concerns the choice of location. There are different viewpoints: The Court of Auditors believes that schools should be summarized in the context of thematic priorities, with the Minister taking the view that this directive should also be well accessible – namely within 30 to 35 minutes – and that it should be available regionally, and I also believe that this is a political assessment and should be taken into account regionally, how the locations are summarized. Another point in the final recommendations is accessibility. It is sensational that by 2019 all schools can be opened up freely – and an essential relief for the students! Minister Heinisch-Hosek is moving forward efficiently with the consistent modernisation package of then Minister Schmied, and I am sure that the final consideration of the site concept in the Federal Schools area in 2019 with the planned The conclusion is positive, for the benefit of our students, who will benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25108	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25129	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! For the period 2009 to 2013, the Court of Auditors reviewed the management and quality assurance of judicial criminal proceedings by the judicial authorities. Three district courts and two regional courts were reviewed and compared with different structures and requirements. The Court of Auditors noted a number of serious differences, such as the fact that there are major differences throughout the country as regards the duration of the proceedings and thus the quality of the proceedings. In the district courts, the shortest time was 2.2 months and the longest 17.3 months. In the case of national courts, the shortest period of proceedings was 2.9 months and the longest period of 6.5 months. The reasons for the difference, as the Court of Auditors noted, were essentially in the different and different efficient functioning of the judges. According to the Court of Auditors, there is no factual justification – and I think that should be thought. As far as judicial capacity is concerned – it is known that there are still many small courts – the Court of Auditors recommends going to two full-time equivalents for the district judges from at least 0.5 full-time equivalents at present. In my view, there are three main criticisms: the demarcation between independent jurisdiction and judicial administration, the improvement in the data bases, and in a district court, of course, there were many open cases and high residues in the processing of proceedings. The Court of Auditors sees, as has already been said, a clear responsibility for the judges, but also for the supervision of the services. It has not always been actively and consistently perceived in some areas. A total of 46 recommendations were made on this report. The important thing for the future is that there should be a regular cause analysis for the long-term district courts and a set of measures based on it. Especially in the case of judicial changes, unnecessary procedural delays should be avoided due to good planning, and criminal proceedings should be dealt with immediately and dealt with within a reasonable period of time. Overall, this report shows that there are large differences in governance and quality assurance. It takes an optimization of the structures to improve the service offer. Finally, I should like to suggest that some district courts located in rural regions should perhaps be questioned during a next examination or follow-up examination, because it is of course a matter of course that we can secure and maintain a comprehensive district court structure for rural areas, especially in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25176	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25199	Estimated President! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to welcome a great guest from the Swedish Parliament, namely the Vice-President of the Swedish Reichstag Björn Söder. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I'm dealing with the 2015/1 series Bundesliga. The Court of Auditors then examined the subject of school trials and, of course, with a little regret, it had to be noted that there were 5 367 school attempts in 2012/2013 at a total of 2 900 school locations. Of course, school tests are important and all right, but if this takes such an extent and if money is urgently needed for the education of children and young people, it is in school trials, and the Court of Auditors has recognized that, of course, we are not quite the same opinion, from our point of view. The Court of Auditors, of course, criticises this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: School tests are very often... for education!]] - Yes, it's all right. I think you could have used this money better. – That’s the first part. In the second part, the follow-up review on the cost of medical care in criminal proceedings, there are also surprising aspects: The Court of Auditors notes in its report that the BMJ has not implemented the total of 25 recommendations 14 in full, three in part and eight. Of course, if one goes through this very briefly, the question of why these eight recommendations have not been implemented, for example, the adoption of implementing rules on the law on criminal enforcement in the form of a legal regulation. Why was that not implemented? That would be the question. It would also be exciting to learn what the Minister means. In any case, these are all things that the Court of Auditors has discovered that there could be more efficient, cost-effective and, as it was actually the task, more economically, economically, cost-effectively and usefully. The Court of Auditors can only point out on a number of occasions with its reports: That and that and that would be good, that would help the state save. If this is always welcomed by red and black, but still not implemented, then of course the whole thing is a bit absurd. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And there are several unimplemented recommendations, such as the adaptation of the implementing rules to the regulations of the Health and Hospital Care Act – as one asks again why – or the creation of clear legal regulations on duties and powers for the care staff in the execution of penalties and measures. The Federal Minister always tells us that the implementation of measures belongs to renewed, evaluated, something done. Then the Federal Ministry of Justice will be served by the Court of Auditors at the Golden Tableau, which could be done in the execution of sanctions and measures, and what can be read from the follow-up report again? – Not implemented! You have to ask yourself what it does if the representatives of the government groups always praise the Court of Auditors from the speaker's desk – that's always nice – and say it's great and great, we will follow his recommendations, but then nothing will change. That's actually a sad thing. We always say: If you implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations, the State could save the taxpayers and the citizens a lot of money. That would be important, that would be good and that would be right, but unfortunately God is not there in a good way. In this sense: Nevertheless, thank you for the good report, Mr President, thank you very much to your team, thank you for the good work and so on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25254	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25275	Mr President of the National Council! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear guest from Sweden! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the Republic of Austria has a peculiar control system, which is very competent, only: This Republic has an even more peculiar National Council, which often leaves the recommendations of the control system to the left or the right. My special chapter is the sale and purchase of properties – the real estate economy of the Republic. I would like to give the guest from Sweden a brief insight into two special incidents in Austria, which are really typical. Austria is a country with wonderful castles, for example the Palais Kaunitz or also the Reifnitz Castle on the Wörthersee – touristly highly recommended, I would also express in the direction of Sweden. On the one hand, the property of Kaunitz, Laxenburg, was purchased by the state of Lower Austria in cooperation with the Federal Ministry of the Interior, with the intention of setting up the International Anti-Corruption Academy, which should be a joint project with the Interpol. Although the Interpol sprang off, an international institute was set up to combat corruption. Yeah, that makes sense, just: Who? That's really incredible. I read it again yesterday: First of all, you bought the property and then rebuilt it. For the reconstruction, no builder had been appointed who would have done the whole thing in the sense of entrepreneurship, which always looks at the tax money, no, but they gave it to the office of the Lower Austrian state government for the construction supervision. The Lower Austrian government then passed on the construction supervision to sub-contractors who acted at completely over-priced prices. So the purchase, and partly the conversion, took place in a cost frame that was far too high. In addition, the Interpol jumped off again, and one sat more or less on a property and then had to start an academy himself. The next question is: How do you rent it? And when do you rent it? The interior resort rented and had to pay, pay, pay – overpaid rental prices. The rental contract was completed only half a year after the tenant practically enjoyed the property on site. So the processing of this real estate purchase and the rental were really hanebüchen! An order has had the advantage that has been able to sell the Palais, and now there is this Academy, only the costs were considerable! On the other side of the sale: a beautiful property, a beautiful castle on the Wörthersee, Reifnitz, owned by the municipality, a lake floor owned by the Federal Forest, and then there is a state captain in Carinthia, who apparently has friends in the large financial and international group world, for example Stronach – Members now also sit here as representatives of this financial investor. And this investor really threw an eye on this castle, found it very attractive; I would have found it attractive as well. Now only the question was: How to get the castle relatively cheap? - Hey, easy! It is said that you have a tourism project, you buy the castle for tourist purposes – and then you get 30 percent discount. [[Abg. Hagen: This is legitimate!]] I'd like to try it next time. I do not have a holiday apartment, but I can try it once, when I say I want to buy a holiday home for tourist purposes because I rent it. If I get 30 percent off then? – Stronach has enforced this downturn, for the head of the state of Carinthia has caused it to be made available to the major investor Stronach. And then it turned out he's not doing a tourism project, but he's building five luxury apartments, so he's got wonderful properties. – There would have been a return to the municipality by contract, because there is no tourism, but the property is used for private recreation purposes. [[Abg. Hagen: Is also a tourism!]] But no, the church has generously renounced it. No, she doesn't buy back, according to the motto: My goodness, we've got 30 percent too little, we have fewer tourism in the area and a nice Mr. Stronach on the spot, which may invite us to a round from time to time. – The Court of Auditors has once again revealed all this in detail. There was also a discussion in the Carinthian Landtag. But now I'm finishing: These are just two examples. I could list you ten others, where the Court of Auditors has found that the real estate economy is highly unprofessional – this is still a friendly definition of the processes – that friendly economy flourishes and that, finally, a professional management in the sense of bidder procedure, engagement, advertising, the best bidder has to take place and so on. That is why I have already submitted the application on the subject of professional property management, only the application is on the long bank. I hope that I will soon sit at a table with the Minister for Economic Affairs, perhaps he will also have an economic vein within the meaning of taxpayers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25328	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25349	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! We are discussing Court of Auditors reports, several among them. I would like to comment on the Court of Auditors' report on school tests. Mr President, thank you very much for this Court of Auditors report. After all, he started a lot and was very important for the educational debate because you have revealed that in the school year 2012/13 in Austria say and write 5 367 school attempts have been made. That is, we had trials at around every second school location, about two on average. This, of course, sheds a very questionable light on this kind of school development. Why? – Because we see – and you have described this in detail in your reports – that these school attempts go quite unconstitutional: There are no uniform criteria, there is no clear line in evaluation. There are school experiments that have been on the road for five decades. You have to imagine that! You wonder what this is supposed to be: half a century of schooling and no end in sight! Then there's school tests, which runs 100 times the same at various schools. That's where you have to say: Yes, then it has obviously proved successful, but in Austria we are not able to transfer such a school attempt to the general school system. I will of course also come here on the subject of education reform. How'd they be called so beautiful? Mr. State Secretary Mahrer said that there was almost a good educational reform. Unfortunately, the emphasis is almost on because it is not even an educational reform, one has to say. The government is struggling to do what they have here after negotiations on 17 November. November has presented to pour into packages now. In any case, it is important that we get into the process by June and, for example, bring things that are pictured a hundred times over school attempts into the general school system. There I am with the minister, but unfortunately it comes counter-defence from the ÖVP: It would, for example, be to transfer the release of education in the public school to the general school – this has proved to be a hundred times proven in Austria! – and alternative assessment systems should be used. One should actually give this into the autonomy of schools, dear ÖVP, if not in the first four years, so at least in the first three years. [[Interlocutory calls from Amon and Schönegger.]] Yes, you have to do that to your State Secretary, because he's telling something else! This is the problem of the ÖVP: You ask two people about education policy and get three opinions. This is a problem, but this is also a consequence for the students, I think! I can remember: One fifth of young people cannot read with 15 meaningfully. 11 percent of Austrian students have blatant weaknesses in mathematics, natural sciences and German. But that also means that these 11 percent can't really take life into their own hands. These are permanent customers of the labour market service, and I would say that even those who are good in mathematics, but cannot read meaningfully, will be permanent customers of the AMS. That is why, of course, if they have proved themselves to be successful for decades, we must move things into the general school system! I also believe – proven for many years, at many school locations – that we should allow cross-age classes to allow multi-stage classes in the folk school, not only in the first two years, but in the first four years. All of this has proved to be a good thing! If there were not a policy of power in Austria that would cross education policy, where anyone would say: Yes, then we already have to pass the Council of Town Schools – or at the Council of State Schools – because then we can let our party-political power play, whether we grant it to you or allow you or turn you away!, then it will be easier! But it applies: Power policy before education policy, and that is not the case. The Court of Auditors has put his finger in the wound. Thank you. I think that if you look at exactly where the school tests are, then of course this also puts the slide towards folk school and there also towards elementary pedagogy. We need solutions that are also successful! And I would like us to pay much more attention to elementary education and the folk school in the next three months – this is an appeal to the two government parties. This has been completely lacking in the centenary dispute over total school yes/no. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25449	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25530	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25551	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The EU financial report, which is also being negotiated under these chapters, gives me the opportunity to look at the EU as well, to look more closely at the generosity of EU funding and also to ensure that there is little control, so that we can say: The EU is pouring money out. I would like to illustrate this with some examples. “Approximately half of EU development aid is lost on the way to the planned goal”, says an internal study by the EU Parliament. “2014 it was €15 billion”, ladies and gentlemen. 15 billion € are somewhere in 2014. “Every second euro the EU has spent does not do what it has been paid for,” continues the study. This study was published by the “Economic Sheet”, you can also visit and read it there. The Court of Auditors is also working very well with the European Court of Auditors, we have already discussed and discussed this in various committees. Now, of course, this European Court of Auditors has also taken care of and adopted expenditure policy, the EU's funding policy, and it has found that the error rate in the EU budget was 4.4 percent in 2014. This spent almost €6.3 billion without a legal basis, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. €6.3 billion was spent without a legal basis. If we look at what is divided between us by the EU, what the EU demands – the EU wants to disarm citizens, to make stricter arms laws under the cover of the fight against terrorism, the EU wants to abolish the cash, the EU wants to cut us down here and there – ladies and gentlemen: It can't be like that! There is a strong need to act against this. I call on the government representatives to call on the Members of the Government of the Member States to act on their members of the government to work for Austria at European level, to agree with Austrian taxpayers and not to abolish the cash, nor to tighten up the arms laws, as I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25599	Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25621	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests here in the house and in front of the screens! I can talk about the cost of medical care in criminal proceedings. If one reads through this report, one point is particularly noteworthy, namely that prisoners do not have social security. This, of course, causes problems, especially the high cost. The judicial department must pay the private patient's rate for the hospitalization of prisoners in hospitals. However, the largest share of these costs devours the external housing of mentally abnormal legal criminals in psychiatric institutions. An agreement was sought with the federal states on the levying of hospital medical services for public hospitals for residents of judicial institutions. There was this agreement by 2013, but unfortunately negotiations on continuation failed. In the ongoing negotiations on financial compensation, however, it is a matter of resuming it. Measures have been taken to save, Mr Lausch. Some measures have a very positive effect, for example with regard to the discharge of medical care. The justifiable Forensic Center in Asten is a good example of this. Of course, organisational measures have also been taken, resulting in savings. It is known that drugs unfortunately play a major role in the execution and, of course, the withdrawal of them. In this respect, care, treatment and advice are of great importance in criminal proceedings. The Ministry of Justice is working on a solution, because it is important that exactly those who are released can find a return to normal life. This, of course, costs money. The current government programme lists the topic “Inclusion of the inmates of judicial institutions into statutory health insurance”. It should be so that health insurance companies of course have no disadvantage here, but they have to work very hard on it. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25666	The next item is the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25687	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The probability is that most of you were once part of a school attempt, perhaps consciously, perhaps unconsciously. The fact is, Austria is obviously an Eldorado for school trials. The Court of Auditors therefore adopted this issue and examined the school years 2008/09 to 2013/14. Legal bases, scope, objectives and objectives have been reviewed. If in the definition of a school experiment there is the word “test phase” and we know that some school tests take much longer – the alternative performance assessment, which has already been the case, there have been some 50 years or ethics lessons for 17 years – then it is clear that at least the word “test phase” has been interpreted quite independently. One thing comes to mind in this report: the fragmentation of competences, whether in the ministry itself, there are the eight pedagogical departments responsible, or also between the federal government and countries. This fragmentation, as in so many other areas, leads to a bloating of the system, a lack of review and, finally, to a lack of economy. The additional expenditure of around € 114 million, which fell into the model tests of New Secondary School, is very remarkable. If you look at how the first tests have failed, you can't resist the impression that, despite the long trial phase, the childhood diseases were not completely overcome. Obviously, the New Secondary School has been taken over in the general school system without having to evaluate sufficiently. That too is one of the criticisms of the Court of Auditors. In 50 percent of the schools, that has already been said, 5 367 school attempts took place. If one follows the Court of Auditors' argument that these school tests are often used as a substitute for lack of legislation or for overly rigid legal provisions, then the logical consequence must be to review the legal situation and to create flexible opportunities. I very much hope that, in the course of the autonomy efforts for schools, this goal will be achieved. Finally, it must be said: In principle, and this is also a recommendation from the Court of Auditors, the number of school attempts should be restricted in order to bring a little more rest into the system. If meaningful school tests are carried out, then limited in duration, and there must be an adequate evaluation before transferring the school experiment to the regular system.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25727	The next item is the report by Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25748	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! If I no longer have the opportunity to thank you, Mr President Moser, I would like to do so now. I have always read the Court of Auditors reports of recent years with great interest. You have also personally noticed that this is not only a job for you, but that you are committed to the matter. – Thank you very much for this and above all for the fact that we have received very, very many facts to make education policy. But now we're on the problem, too. Mrs Diasper, you have referred to some facts. What conclusions do we draw from the fact that there are school trials that have been taking place for half a century – this 50th anniversary of alternative performance assessment in public schools – that 2,000 schools are involved in such a school attempt? It is about abolishing the numbering note in the elementary school and introducing alternative performance assessments. The teachers are excited, the parents are for this, as are the directors. For 50 years, the schools that have conducted this must apply for it year after year. Today we have a so-called education reform, and that is one of the proposals. What's going on? – Hardly is the proposal on the table, it is currently being rejected by your group, the ÖVP. Let us try to speak a little more concretely about what is being examined here and make clear statements: Yeah, I'm for it, or I'm against it! But constantly to draw up, to make vague indications here, always in principle, but then, if it becomes concrete, to knead, that is not what Parliament is looking for. Unfortunately, I have to go seamlessly to what Matthias Strolz has already done and point out these construction sites that would be correct. We've got school tests on many of the problems you've been talking to. We have evaluation reports on this, on our own, we do not take them seriously and go beyond it. The same applies to the school experiment “ethical and religious education”. There is also the possibility to talk to those concerned and to take appropriate measures and take them into the regular education system. In principle, I would like to say: This large number of school experiments we have in Austria – at 50 percent of all schools; converted into a school attempt on average at each school, because there are usually two at the affected sites – does indicate a structural problem that we have, namely that the schools can decide too little autonomously what they want to do. Do minors really need to be decided what is taught in the popular school of Sibratsgäll and how the performance is assessed? But this does not have to be done in the National School Council in Bregenz. Get away with decisions in the pedagogical field from the central offices, whether in the country or in the federal government, to the locations! That's what we say again and again in Sunday's speeches. But there is also a lack of concrete decisions here. I can only change this with one word – Mr President Moser, you did this in an interview with the “Kurier”. They have spoken about the “competence-wirrwarr”, and in this interview these terms “wirrwarr” and “competence-wirrwarr” occur several times. Unfortunately, it's not unusual. If we look at this Court of Auditors report on school tests, we do not know exactly what it costs in the Council of State Schools, we do not know exactly what it costs. The evaluations carried out by the schools are simmering somewhere in the no-one's country. No one can tell you exactly what is there. That is, this structure of school trials, which is not reasonable, which is not modern, and it does not meet the needs of teachers who also have parents and children at schools. That would be a consequence: Autonomy at the Schools! Then we'd have learned something about it. Hope dies most recently. You, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, are all right. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25812	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25834	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! I refer to two reports, first of all to those about the – you will be surprised – retirement pensions in different resorts. This shows that there are control deficits and control deficits. In 2011, 1 per cent of women and 3 per cent of men retired for regular retirement age. You don't have to think long to conclude that there's something going wrong. Even though it is now celebrated that the age of retirement is encouraging among officials: The expiry of the old hackler regulation will also show its current effects, and from 2017 on, everything will be pretty normal again. The main problem is the division of competence, namely, that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for financing, the Federal Chancellor's Office for Service and Legal Affairs in this area, while every department itself is responsible for personnel. This enables me to get rid of myself as a body of staff costs: If I see people going to retirement, then the financial ministers' problem, and in the ressort budget, it looks really nice. – If we don’t get that under control, then all the other efforts are for nothing. The second is the report on the asset management of social security funds. There is a clear indication of how self-interesting policies are carried out at the expense of the insured. On the basis of the Court of Auditors report, we have put forward a parliamentary request, and it has resulted in a 60 per cent increase in the financial assets of social security institutions within ten years – 60 per cent in ten years. Now you have to remember how every year the noise comes, that the cash registers will be empty everywhere. Obviously, there are several insurance companies that raise very high amounts of money, namely, €3.7 billion in financial assets. What is not available are clear rules on asset management for social security institutions. You could've done that a lot. We are starting a new attempt to reach here, to give them clear rules, what to do and what to do. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I wish you all the best for your personal future, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am one of those who are a little sad that you are not in the candidate field for the office of the Federal President. This would have significantly enriched the whole thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e25904	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, which does not contain the last statement, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The following Opinion was adopted: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27093	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27115	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! From the Federal President's election back to the Court's reports. I can deal with the report on the location concepts in the Federal Schools area. The competences in the school sector are all known. In the field of compulsory schooling, the Federal Government is responsible for the principle legislation, the countries for implementing laws, and school holders are countries and municipalities. For the federal schools, on the other hand, all competences come to the Federation. This structure of competence is, of course, the starting point of many discussions. The Court of Auditors in its report criticizes exactly this interwoven and fragmented division of competences in schools. He recommends reforms in the school system, in the school administration, and shows this on the basis of school construction projects and errors in the implementation of the site concepts. Ladies and gentlemen! The government agreement in the field of education is a very good common basis of work for our goal of best education. On the basis of the discussions in the Education Reform Commission, in which the Federal Government and countries are involved, the Federal Government has promoted a positive agreement on a reform of education. Focus will now be placed, for example, on a new school management, taking particular account of school autonomy. The location concepts for schools are also the subject of discussions in the government's Education Reform Commission. There is a need to discuss the autonomy of schools in terms of personnel, education and financial autonomy. We are committed to a modern educational range, from elementary education to academic education, which takes into account diversity and promotes the children's and young people's talents optimally. It is important for us to leave the schools as free as possible so that they can respond to the needs and respond quickly. The strengthening of school locations should therefore be a central objective, in the sense of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27152	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27173	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I would like to pay attention to a report on the Court of Auditors, which has not yet been dealt with, but I also believe that it deserves attention and attention. The Court of Auditors reviewed the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development, particularly the financing of the Foundation and the development of administrative and resolution costs. It was shown that the National Foundation was no longer able to achieve its objective of financing research projects in the amount of €125 million per year, mainly due to changing interest rates since 2006. For information: The funds of the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development are mainly fed by the Austrian National Bank and from the funds of the Marshall Plan, which are managed in Austria as ERP funds by Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH. The objectives of the National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development are defined on its website as follows: first: sustainable financing of research projects; second: orientation to long-term objectives of research and technology policy; third: excellent, international positioning of Austrian research and technology development. In the period under review, the sources of funding previously mentioned were a total of €31 million per year in 2009 and €96 million in 2013, far away from the €125 million previously mentioned. Interest income and other operating income from the National Foundation amounted to up to € 5.15 million per year and was thus of a rather subordinate importance for the income situation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is welcome that in recent years the National Foundation's guidelines have been extended over and over again. In addition to industry and industry, trade and services can now also be supported. New investment incentives have been created for the domestic economy. However, there is a need for sustainable investment in research for Austrian companies in particular: Planning safety. For this reason, we should use federal funds to increase the National Foundation's funds, regardless of the respective interest income, to up to € 125 million per year, even in the knowledge of the tense budgetary situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27219	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27240	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been moved by the contributions by Klubobmann Strolz and Harald Walser to take a position. I also regret - and I can stress this - that you, Dr. Moser, will no longer belong to the Court of Auditors. They are exactly in the debt debate, on how to reorganise the school efficiently and well, i.e. to reorganise well and efficiently, in multiple reports and repeatedly come to the point and have also opened our eyes to us. One point that is also described in this Court of Auditors report, which is being discussed today, is: Of these more than 5,000 school attempts, I think, even about half of them are those that deal with the problem of emergency. I know this myself as a teacher, as a school principal. My wife's still a director now, she has to go to school every year for school without grades. I was with you myself, too. And the last argument, when you've added everything, why it's a blessing for the little ones, that you take away the music pressure, was: Then what else does Grandpa give for a witness money if there are not three ones inside? That was the last argument, if otherwise everything was cleared out. Brain researchers, neuropsychologists, everyone who deals with it, says: Let's take this pressure away! – Notes do not serve to determine the child’s performance, but only to make a difference between the best and the best for a year. Weaknesses. The different models available for a performance without grades mean much more work for the teachers and the teacher team than simply adding a note. Much more work! There are many parent talks, from the afternoon until the evening. What you need to do in teacher, parent, student discussions and explain where strengths and where weaknesses are! But that's a lot more than when I write one or two. If one then compares what the child can see at the beginning and at the end of the school, the child sees in its own development, one should say that now we want to introduce such new insights even to the little ones, so that we can get away with this pressure of music that is proving to weaken the children, especially the weaker children. The good always make it, you don't need any notes at all, the good ones make their way. They are not weakened or less motivated if they do not have the famous Oneser, or in the fourth class they do not receive three or four more ones so that they can go to the gymnasium. Specials: If you want the best for the children, you really have to say, yes, we are leaving with these 3,000 school attempts, but we are giving the opportunity to do things in school autonomy the way it is best for the children! Then we all do something good! Therefore, my appeal, which is particularly addressed to the ÖVP – because I know that this is really open, new and modern among the other parties – is: Give yourself a back, really take an important step here, namely to give the children new opportunities to open up new opportunities to new development opportunities! That's why I'm looking for you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27282	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, has now spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27304	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I mentioned earlier in my speech on the activity report that today, not only the activity report and the income report, but a total of 21 audit results are on the agenda. Today's debates have already shown that these reports, which are also on the agenda, show that public funds could be used more efficiently, target-orientedly, cost-effectively and sustainablely, that there are savings potentials, that structural problems are obvious, and, last but not least, that transparency is worthy of improvement. In this context, I would like to stress an examination in the pension area, namely the right of pensioners of the ÖBB, which points out, as in other areas, that the objectives of policy, namely harmonising pension rights, have not yet been sufficiently addressed. Considering this examination of the pension rights of the staff of the ÖBB, it appears that there is still a harmonisation gap of € 920 million. This means that the pension rights of the employees of the ÖBB have still not been approximated to those of the federal officials, so that €920 million remain open to harmonisation from 2016 to 2050. Considering the pension right of social security schemes, the necessary harmonisation has still not been achieved, so that a harmonisation potential of € 786 million is also open in this area. Considering the Austrian National Bank, there is – and this has already been mentioned today in the debate – a harmonisation potential in pensions of over €50 million, which has not yet been raised. Considering the pension rights of the countries, a harmonisation potential of over €300 million has not been raised. If we consider the pension right of the ORF, there are still different occupational pension schemes which are still opposed to harmonisation. Considering the insurance institution for railways and mining, there has also been no increase in the harmonisation potential of €16 million. This is the point raised by the Court of Auditors because it has carried out examinations which show that, within the framework of constitutional possibilities, it is possible to achieve exactly the harmonisation that has been set itself as an objective. I think it would be necessary to tackle these harmonisation steps with a view to a pension right, to a generation-righteousness and to the sustainability of pension schemes. Another point raised in this context is the school. I would like to thank Mr Mayer and also Mr Walser for having found the Court of Auditors' audit reports in the context of their debates to be very positive for the discussion. I also believe that the two reports on the agenda today show how obvious it is that we have enormous structural problems in the field of education and education. If you look at the school location concepts, it turns out that we still do not have uniform, cross-border building management, that the cooperations were difficult to ensure that the potentials of common federal school centres were not sufficiently exploited, that cross-border school-locations were not available across the country, i.e. that the available resources were not used in such a way that they were sufficiently available to students. If you look at the school tests – including those mentioned, 5 367 in the number – it turns out that, since over decades of rigidity and no longer applicable legal provisions have been maintained, structural reforms should finally be addressed. And when, Mr Walser mentioned this, one speaks of ‘competence warp’: The establishment or absence of a school requires the decision of the municipality, then it is necessary to consult the Council of State Schools and, in the final consequence, the approval by the state government. That is to say, even in this area, we need all three territorial authorities that have to agree to take a measure, each of which relies on the other when it comes to taking a decision. This is certainly not in the sense of the students. For this reason, one can only appeal for the necessary reforms to be implemented quickly – the faster, the better. One point that we have talked about several times in the past is the one that talks about business. I would like to remind you that the legislator is also in demand. For example, the asset management of selected health insurance companies has shown that on 31 December 2009, the insurance company selected health insurance companies. December 2012 € 3.7 billion was invested in securities, committed and short-term deposits, with a legal requirement for the amount or function of the social security funds' reserves missing. Here again, I would like to point out that internal processes have been inadequate. As far as the supervisory authorities, namely the health sector, the social sector and the Federal Ministry of Finance, were concerned, there was no systematic cross-carriage or aggregation of the social security funds' portfolios. So, too, there should be a legal framework for social security schemes; there would also be a need for measures to create transparency and, at the same time, to ensure funding in the future. A positive example of cooperation between an audited body and the Court of Auditors is, as the Federal Minister for Justice is currently present, cooperation on the examination in the field of justice, which at the outset has not been very easy, because the Court of Auditors has been seen as an intruder in the independence of the judiciary. However, it has been shown that the Court of Auditors' audits have helped to make progress in the area of judicial administration. I would also like to stress that, for example, in the field of medical care in criminal proceedings, savings of over €30 million have been made and that the audit on the agenda today, namely governance and quality assurance in criminal proceedings, certainly helps to strengthen the supervision of services or instruments, so that measures that can be put in place despite judicial independence, lead to more proximity and faster procedures and thus to faster access to justice. This shows a positive interaction, which is in the interest of those concerned and in the interest of taxpayers. In this context, thank you very much for the intensive debate on the Court of Auditors' reports today. I am looking forward to the continued excellent cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27389	Thank you, Mr President. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The votes shall be taken separately on each of the Committee's requests. First vote on agenda item 11: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-136 of the supplements. Who's right about that? – This is unanimously accepted. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Strolz, colleagues in the field of education for 3- to 10-year-olds from a single source. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Vote on agenda item 12: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-139 of the supplements. Who's right about that? – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 13: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-127 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. Debates of the European Parliament Loacker, colleagues on caps on social security funds. Who's right about that? – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[18:17:15]] 14. Point Report by the Building Committee on the Government Template (998 e.g._Other Organiser Bun-des Act, which amends the benchmark law in order to reduce the impact of inflation on housing costs (2. Law on renting inflation relief – 2. MILG) (1010 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27495	Now we come to the 14th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. First word message: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27523	Mr President. Mr Brandstetter, Minister of State! High house! Now I am not talking about the pension issue – you will not even know yourself. Indeed, the great word “Mittrechts Inflationsleasing Act” is worth a price in itself. There is also a need to alleviate inflation, which of course the law cannot. The only thing that is done is that the inflation adjustment of these benchmarks will be postponed by one year and then the higher, at once. This not only causes damage to the landlords because they get the inflation adjustment later, but in the long term the tenants also have problems with it. By the way, this has also confirmed today a broadcast by the President of the Landerbund. It's a milkmaid bill. They now give the tenants a break for a year because the rent does not increase. The “Washn” will become even bigger when next year there will be an even greater increase. But what happens is: Investing can only be the one who has the money for it. Of course, there is also a lack of investment, which would have, for example, been channelled into rehabilitation measures which would have lowered energy consumption in the building. Of course, the tenant remains on the higher energy costs. Whatever you do with this law, you manifest once again the multi-class system in rental law. There is now a group of tenants that comes to the benefit of this law, and a large group of tenants, in which this is not the case. What I criticise is that in these so-called old building houses, they certainly live mostly people who have lived there for a very long time, and that we protect a group at the expense of others. The young market participants in the housing market have the problem that they do not benefit from it. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's just wrong!]] – I know the greens see this differently. Whatever you do is: They send a signal to market participants who are in principle willing to invest money and invest in housing and invest in improving existing buildings. And if you send the signal to a potential investor that the legislator is constantly working on the conditions to which he makes his business, to which he actually makes an investment decision, which is often calculated for decades, then such market participants will just say goodbye, decide differently and will make their money flow into other asset classes – and not in housing! If you want to become lord of the lack of housing, then housing policy must also guarantee reliability for those people who invest their money there, invest their private money so that other people have housing that they can rent. [[Abg. Steinhauser: The share is so low!]] Yes, the share is so low because there is no interest in it either. [[Abg. Steinhauser:... more expensive!]] They are also among those who want to see people in the dependence of the public hand and prefer only to have public housing and to register people inside. [[Abg. Lightenecker: But go!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's what Van der Bellen said when hearing!]] Thank God there are also private investors who rent their private apartments and houses.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27615	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27637	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has at least the 2nd in the main lines. Inflation law has already been declared. Background is that with 1. According to the current legal situation, the so-called indicative values would have been increased according to inflation trends. This benchmark is the basis for the calculation of the amount of rents in some 330 000 households in Austria. Since 2010, inflation adjustment has taken place in a biennial rhythm. Before that, an annual adjustment was made. Under this law, the increase for this year is suspended by another year. In other words, the next indicative adjustment is made only on 1 January. ==References== This does not mean an increase in the rents for 2016 and the first quarter of 2017 and therefore less expenditure on living this year. However, it is fair to point out that the rents were made on 1 January. April 2017 is likely to increase by around 3.5 percent. This measure is very critical of the owners. Why? – Because of course each medal also has a second side: The less-income also means less investment in the conservation of the old stock, also means less legal certainty, as the legal index adaptations will be suspended for the second time with today's bill. Ladies and gentlemen! The particular challenge in housing policy is that it succeeds in providing the needed living space and that it is also manageable. This only succeeds if there is a balance in the conditions for those who create the living space, as well as for those who use the living room. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very objective discussion in the Building Committee, the various reasons for the amount of housing costs were discussed. I am thinking of the basic costs, the construction standards, the promotion directives, the safety regulations, the operating costs – to name just a few – and they all contribute to a tense situation in terms of durability. A number of countermeasures have now been put in place. I am thinking of the new construction regulations in some federal states, I am thinking of a new Nor- I am thinking of the investment incentives that have been set. The ARA investment programme with an investment volume of €2 billion and the last agreed housing package, which will set up around 30,000 new rental and housing properties in the coming years, are important steps. The various housing programmes in the federal states, the many initiatives of private builders and the efforts of the non-profit housing industry are also very, very important and, of course, appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, many measures will lead to quiet and sufficient housing – of course also the right to rent. Thank you to all those who contribute to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27685	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27706	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The inflation rate in Austria was 0.9 percent in 2015, and inflation was mainly marked by the price decline in mineral oil products. Today, we are putting a gap in order for a significant part of the tenants by dampening the rise in rents, which last year went up by 4.4 percent. Also, about one million people benefit from the suspension of the index jump – people with new contracts and people in the community buildings. With a 70 m2 apartment, this is at least one savings of 120 € per year. There is only the normal reference value, without surcharges. I would also like to say clearly: I have no understanding at all of the call of the real estate lobby, which has painted the devil on the wall in the last few weeks and has spoken of decaying houses and has also threatened with an investment stop. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] The average tenants cannot afford expensive PR agencies, and the tenants actually never have the media on their side, but people can count. If you have an average rental house with 1 200 m2 of living space, you can thus generate at least 6 € per m2 per month. I have listed exactly how this bill comes about here, I cannot mention it for time, but if you are interested in it, I can explain it very precisely afterwards. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] These 6 € per m2 amount to 85 000 € in the year. It may be that in Austria such houses are at risk of collapse, but the rental income, very much esteemed landlords, certainly do not make that up. In comparison, let us draw attention to the non-profit housing industry! There lies the highest contribution you can collect, at 2 € per m2, and the common people have the best-appointed houses in Austria. Compared to the above mentioned 6 € per m2. Summary: The guide value will not be increased by 14 cents this year. At apartments in Vienna, where the €5.39 makes up, it stays there. As far as the future of indexation in rental contracts is concerned, I would like to have a single solution personally. This can be read in universal rental law, where It explains exactly what a uniformly transparent rental right is. In the medium term, there is no way by anyway. In the short term, this MILG is a good solution that also works immediately. And since the MILG 2008 was unanimously decided, I also ask for broad approval for the MILG 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27770	Next speaker: Mr Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27797	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear tenants! The need for this law at all is another evidence of the failure of this federal government. It governs only with emergency regulations, instead of fighting the causes of exploding housing costs. In view of today's word reports and the drama of the situation in the housing market, the SPÖ needs to be agreed on the expertise and the sense of reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the agglomerations in particular, housing costs have increased above the socially acceptable level. And in the Federal Capital of Vienna, which indisputably carries a social-democratic manuscript, the housing costs are out of control at all. Since 2004, according to Statistics Austria in Vienna, housing costs have on average increased by more than 40 percent, ladies and gentlemen, by more than 40 percent! – and the Wiener Wohnungsmarkt report, published by BUWOG and EHL Immobilien – as one cannot now say that they would not know – says that in Vienna alone more than 11 000 apartments were not built enough in 2015 – an unimaginable number: 11 000 apartments too little! – which we needed. It is obvious that this law, which is to be adopted here today, should once again spread sand to the Austrian population and cloud the view of the real problems. And, my dear tenants, one should be aware of you: that the next time, unfortunately, the increase will only be the higher, because in order to ensure the durability permanently, we need structural measures instead of temporary emergency regulations. But federally, the government's highly praised housing package becomes a refugee package. Tens of thousands of refugees will have access to social housing in the next few months. What this means for the housing offer, you can paint yourself. The answer to the following question remains to us the government: My dear Federal Government, what do you say to the Austrians who have been waiting for a social apartment for years?
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27840	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27862	Ladies and gentlemen! I find the title of the law before us absolutely refreshing. It is called the "Bun-of-the-law which amends the benchmark law in order to reduce the impact of inflation on housing costs". I find him refreshing because he's honestly meant to be: There is no solution, there is a maximum relief for the pressing housing costs. When is there so much honesty in a law title? Second point: The government, of course, acknowledges with this only small measure that wants to reduce housing costs in a sub-area of around 300,000 households, that there is actually too high housing costs and that there is actually a need for a major reform. The fact is, however, that: We do not want this reform to happen, we do not bring this reform to Parliament, and we must therefore be satisfied with a small relief instead of a major reform that would bring a solution or, if we were to say it with a medical term, because we are already in the word "limitation" - a recovery in the cost of living. But the debate is also valuable because we are often asked: What distinguishes the Greens from the NEOS? [[Call the FPÖ:Very much!]] And this debate shows this very well. The law on the reduction of inflation in rents has been adopted unanimously, as Mr Becher correctly said before the NEOS came to Parliament, not because it is the solution of all problems, but because it means that in that area, namely when living, where a fundamental right, a basic need is satisfied, housing costs are too high and every single small measure helps. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] Living is not a product like any other – so see NEOS! – but living is a basic need, and it is the task of policy to ensure that this basic need is satisfied. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The NEOS stand out here and cynically say that this concerns only 300,000 people, and because it does not concern the others, there should not be this law. Yes, that's the central difference: The Greens stand for a social value show that NEOS see living as a product that is traded on the market and can be calmly expensive as well. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] Second point: Reforms are urgently needed because housing costs have actually run out of the row. There are several reasons for this. The main reason lies in the field of indicative values: that the law has for a long time no longer given the protection it should actually give. It is now in the field of indicative values, because the law is imprecise because the law is not transparent, requires fantasy rents that are close to the market price. In other words, there is a need for a reform which restores this transparency and therefore makes it comprehensible to the tenant, where the protection of his rental height is laid down in the law, so that the rental interest becomes verifiable. [[Abg. Kickl: upper limit or guide value – right?]] Everything else leads to transparency and leads to higher housing costs. Third point: There are fewer and fewer apartments covered by the protection of the rental right, because the deadline that protects the apartments in the rental law is increasingly behind. This means that fewer and fewer apartments are covered by protection. That is the second reason why we need a reform so that we – and the colleague Becher has already done it – again get more apartments into the protection area of the rental law. The consequences of too high housing costs are obvious: Ghettobildung, low standard of living, extreme delogging, loss of purchasing power. All of this should not matter to us as politicians. And that housing costs have increased enormously, all statistics say, by 41 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] Not the operating costs, but the housing costs increased by 41 percent in the new rents because more and more is required because living is becoming more and more the product and is seen less and less as the basic need. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Stroll]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] Living, however, is not a product like any other, living is a scarce property that is asked by many because it is a basic need. And if there is something small where there is a low supply with a high demand, then this inevitably leads to the rental rate rising. Of course: Of course, the solution is not in the rental right alone, that's right. It needs to be built more. [[Abg. Stroll: That's right!]] It has to be detached from the construction regulations. [[Abg. Kickl:... fees!]] All of these are approaches, are different parking screws that need to be rotated. But as if we had nothing to do with the rental law or in the sense of NEOS-Voodoo-Liberism we just deregulated everything, then it will be cheaper, that is a promise that will not work! No, we need an urgent reform of this rental law, because living is not a product you can miss, but because it is a basic need and politics must define the framework conditions for this basic need! Therefore, Mr Minister and Mr SPÖ and Mr ÖVP: You're really in demand now! It will no longer be acceptable for you to look away or act with small measures, even if they are better than nothing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e27986	Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Brandstetter spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28008	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law, which formally falls within my competence, has not only an honest title but, of course, an honest content. Then: It is a one-year suspension of indexation of the indicative values. This is a discharge for a year for a non-indisputable part of the tenants – no more, but no less! Of course, this has nothing to do with the fact that a substantially new rental right is often called for, it is clear, but the debate in the last few minutes has shown that it is a highly controversial social policy matter. There needs to be a corresponding consensus. We can't force him, I can only assure you that our house is available with its experts when it comes to legalizing what is agreed here in the house. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: A little louder, we hear nothing! A little more emotional!]] That's what we hope for! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28059	Thank you, Minister of State. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28083	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We're now discussing the 2nd. Inflation law, on which it refers is that the index adjustment of the indicative values that would actually have occurred in April 2016 will be suspended and the next index adjustment will only take place in 2017. With this law, the rental costs remain the same for more than 300,000 households for at least one year. However, I must also note that the increase in the indicative values in 2017 will inevitably be higher, and it would certainly be necessary to consider whether it would not be better and more compatible for tenants to introduce an annual index adjustment, which would make the necessary increases lower each time. Ladies and gentlemen! The example of rental law also shows the different worldly access: On the one hand, those who want to collect limits on rental costs, without taking into account who creates the living space, and above all, how to finance the construction and maintenance. On the other hand, those who want to reach cheap apartments through a corresponding offer on the housing market, namely that a sufficient number of apartments are built, which are then also cheap for tenants. However, this only works if the demand for the apartments can be satisfied and if the costs for the construction are kept within the framework. We don't reach cheap apartments by arranged maximum rents, anyone has to pay for the construction and for the maintenance, and unfortunately this is hidden again and again. Ladies and gentlemen, it is above all also a question of shattering building regulations and standards in order to make building cheaper from this side as well, and not least the price of land, which must not rise to the infinite, because this again has a negative impact on construction costs and thus on rents. The question is certainly also: How must social housing be equipped? Lower Austria is once again progressing as a model in the provision of cheap housing. In 2016 alone, €500 million will be invested in residential construction. I would also like to draw attention to a new project by State Captain Wolfgang Sobotka. This project is intended to build standardized houses where apartments with 60 square meters at the price of 250 € can be offered and rented. In this direction, we must continue to think, because this is an innovative proposal that creates a living space that is affordable and at the end of the day is also manageable for tenants.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28128	Next speaker: Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28150	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, Mr Steinhauser, everyone here should consider why we have too little space on the market. There are innumerable regulations for the construction and there are countless regulations in the rental law, and so it comes that owners choose not to rent their property just because the rental law poses the risk that I will never get my property back when I make a small mistake in the rental contract. And there are people who, because of the many regulations, choose not to build something that you can rent later. What you all are doing here is to decide once again – although a small but yet another – regulation that strengthens this effect! You will thus reach the opposite of what you intend to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28179	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28200	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Unfortunately, Mr Schrangl has already left us, but I would like to ask the current legal colleagues of the FPÖ to inform him that a legislative decision in the Austrian National Council should not be quoted as an emergency regulation. When emergency regulations were worked and governed in Austria, I think everyone here in the house is still in bad memory. To this law: The discussion yesterday in the Building Committee, I think, has shown quite unanimously that there is a need for reform in rental law. We have put forward proposals to this end and hope that in the foreseeable future we will have an agreement and a great reform. As far as the concrete law is concerned, my preliminary speakers have already carried out the technical details. I would just like to make a brief reference to two points. Of course, we are aware that the template on the landlord's side will not lead to jubilant storms. On the other hand, this scenario is also overshadowed by one-door old buildings, which will now emerge from 2016 to 2017. And I would also like to ask the question in the room, how many of the colleagues who are now criticising this law have had real concrete contacts with tenants. [[Call the FPÖ: You don't!]] . I do, Mr. Cot! Every week, as a practitioner in this field, I deal with tenants who, due to the unfortunately increased rents, the higher operating costs and other factors, are in our company and no longer know how to deal with their financial possibilities, where they should first save, when renting, eating, electricity or other things. Therefore, a draft law, which ultimately also results in individual tenants, whether only a minority, being able to receive their roof over the head, should be given broad approval by reducing costs for at least one year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28235	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28256	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, you said it right: This is a break-up that you'll get the tenants for a whole year. That is also the reason why we agree today, but that is also the only reason. You said it right, it's nothing but a break-up and it doesn't solve the problem. I am excited, Minister of State – also a question to the government parties –: When are you finally ready to change the rental right in principle? One thing is clear, Mr Steinhauser and Mrs Becher: Austria It's not just Vienna! Austria has nine federal states, and they will not be able to afford to rely purely on non-profit, social housing in the future, but they will continue to depend on private investors creating housing. I would now like to give you an example: In Vorarlberg there are more than 4,000 housing seekers in the larger cities and communities, who cannot serve the non-profit housing company VOGEWOSI. The Vorarlberg country has now set up a housing programme to build 500 apartments annually in the next few years in non-profit housing. A third of this is supposed to go to the asylum seekers. I'm excited when 3,600 asylum seekers in Vorarlberg will finally have an apartment. It'll take years! On the other hand, more than 4,000 apartments, so as many as are now mentioned, are free in the free housing market – and do you know why? The main reason is not even that they are too expensive, the main reason is that we still have a rental right, which is restrictive, where we are subject to very rigid regulations and each private investor is thinking about whether he is renting his home, because he may need it for his own children in five or six years and then perhaps no longer get free. And here you are called upon to finally act, Minister of State! Do you know, Mr. Federal Minister, what your ÖVP councillor in Vorarlberg, Mrs. Dr. Bernadette Mennal, says? They will know you – I quote: “The work on this rental right reform” – and that’s what she thinks in the government – “is going on, apart from occasional media reports” – has nothing to do with you – “really very opaque.” It also says that they share the view that the development on this issue, which is now under way, will lead to “further barriers rather than incentives for renting idle dwellings”. Well, that's all that says. Her own Landesratin in Vorarlberg on the work in the Federal Government has to be said in terms of this change in the rental law or the rental law in general. Mrs. Ruth Becher, now I'm telling you one more thing: If your rental calculator, which you put into the Internet before Christmas, will be implemented by this government and reality, then you will not find any private investors throughout Austria, which is also just about ready to invest money for such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28312	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28333	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday in the Committee, the legislative proposal was adopted almost unanimously and NEOS voted against it. Just as yesterday in the Committee, in the debate today, it should be noted that, despite the broad agreement, there are concerns. It was a very orderly, critical discussion, in which a few specific features were also mentioned, because it is not customary to take decisions in this way. As with many other topics, there are two partners at the table in this subject, and therefore it is clear to us that this is an exception in this form, but we still agree, because it is also a “contribution” for a year at a difficult time, as is stated in the text of the law. But no one should be surprised that next year, as it has been mentioned many times, there will be a bigger step, because an automaticism on this question will and should not exist. Therefore, a yes to today's proposal, but of course, with the reservation that there will again be balance for all partners in the future, because – and here I am with you, Mr Colleague: It must also be possible in the future to have the necessary resources to clean up in order to rebuild, and then to meet all the demands again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28365	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28387	Mr President. Minister! My dear colleagues and colleagues! Yes, of course you have to do something in the rental law, it needs a reform, because living in Austria has become almost inflexible or inexistible for many young people and young families. The rental prices are often far too high, I don't want to talk about the prices of the properties. The net rent is located in agglomerations such as Innsbruck, Salzburg, also Vienna and Bregenz at about 10 € per square meter. If you add the sales tax, people with rents of over 900 € are charged for a 75-square meter apartment – without operating costs! - face-to-face. Young people, young families, therefore, have to invest almost 50 percent of their monthly income in the basic need to live. And this condition must be terminated in the future. Yes, living must be a fundamental right. It's a fundamental right! The MILG 2016, which we decide today, will only bring a small and short-term relief for the tenants, it is definitely a step in the right direction. However, I would also like to draw attention to the Parliamentary Citizens' Initiative, which has been introduced by my colleague Katharina Kucharovich today and can also be supported online from next week. I would also like to support the demands of this initiative. Yes, it takes the introduction of universal rental law, it needs the reintroduction of the purpose of the housing promotions, it needs the reintroduction of the housemasters and it takes the free way to introduce an void and second residence fee.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28423	Next speaker: Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28444	Mr President. Federal Minister! As already mentioned several times by the previous speakers, the Law on Rental Law on Inflation Ensuring the increase in fixed value rents by April 2016 is suspended for one year. The suspension of the index adjustment brings important relief to the tenants in the old buildings, which are subject to the indicative value system, but above all to all tenants of the Vienna municipal apartments subject to the guide rents. I do not think that this measure should now be small-scaled, but it is absolutely welcome. because it is particularly the socially weaker tenants of our country who are under the arms in difficult times. If I may only comment: In Lower Austria, in my home country, in the previous year, 27 139 persons received benefits from the minimum security of demand, in my home region, which I may represent, in the forest district, it was still around 3,500 people. In addition, some 30 000 persons in Lower Austria have benefited from the housing allowance in the last calendar year. Many of these people, who receive benefits from the need-oriented minimum pension or housing aid, will benefit from the suspension of the index adjustment this year, and this should be the priority. I therefore believe that this measure is a good and important measure. Finally, I would like to say that it is quite welcome that, as a result of the measures put in place, between €300 000 and €400 000 will be saved on average from €120 to € 130 per year. I therefore welcome this measure and seek broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28484	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28505	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can summarize from the SPÖ's point of view: Every eighth Austrian, every eighth Austrian, is positively affected by today's decision. You save yourself at a 70-square-meter apartment at 130 €, with a 75-square-meter apartment at 150 €. This is a huge success in international comparison, compared to other Central European countries such as our neighbouring country Germany and in particular its cities. This comparison makes us sure: We are very, very good. In 2008, a similar law was passed unanimously. Today the NEOS are moving away. – You need to know why. I am very proud of the decision taken in December, the positive reform of standards. It will reduce housing by 15 percent. 15 percent, that's a nice amount, you can certainly be proud of it. Another point that will be very important in residential construction is the change from cheap bidder to best bidder. This too will have a positive effect on housing, housing. I'll finish. Ladies and gentlemen! I am in favour of a reasonable co-operation, together with the non-profit housing cooperatives and the private in the housing sector, but I did not like the choice of words, here one step has gone too far. A positive relationship also needs a positive common language. And that's why I'm advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28542	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28564	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we need a rent-rate brake, the living needs to be manageable again, especially today For young people. Many people can almost no longer afford living. This year, the benchmark rents in the old building sector will not be adjusted to inflation. True, ladies and gentlemen, it is better than nothing, but not for all tenants. What we need is a new rental right. We all know that large price drivers of high rents are also operating costs, that is true, but not only these, but also regulations, construction regulations and the like do more. That is why there is a great deal of untappedness in this area. With today's decision, ladies and gentlemen, the problem will only be postponed by one year. We urgently need a new rental right with new rent models so that our people can afford life, living again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28600	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28621	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One of today's debates could have given the impression that it is possible to generate a profit of € 85 000 with an average rent house. Without saying what it means to keep and manage a house. Without saying that a house has repair-free times and also times when general repairs are necessary. Without saying that there are provisions and regulations that require property owners to adapt and retrofit on a permanent basis in the technical field. And without saying that the € 85 000 at the time of the investment is only half worth, because 50 percent of them went 1 : 1 into the tax. That was important to me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28652	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 998 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft at third reading too, to give a sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted and adopted at third reading. [[19:00:03]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 26, 39, 43 and 44, 46, 49, 51 and 52 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 61, 65 and 66, 70 to 72 and 74 to 76 (886 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28698	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. First word message: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28727	Mr President. High house! I am glad that today we are not discussing petitions and citizens' initiatives at spirit level, but in the early evening. At the same time, however, I am sad that this is so because apparently there is a standstill within the government, and this, although it is powerful in this country at all corners and ends. You even have to drop a spare day because you have nothing to discuss. That's supposed to be thinking. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, please step back! Make new elections possible so that this standstill has an end! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now on the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. There are 18 pieces of business done again – or, unfortunately, one must say God, rather buried in a funeral first class. And that is, in fact, my main criticism point, which I must express to the government parties, because I often feel that it is only direct democracy that is being played in this committee. I can also explain this by saying that we keep seeing how the business is handled. Businesses that do not face the government parties are turned off. There is no way to transfer these items to the respective specialist committees, and there may be a maximum of a little parliamentary pingpong played. How directly this democracy is when, according to the opinion of the government parties, when citizens' initiatives are taken by foot and are not dealt with, I believe everyone must take a picture of it, and also of how fair it is to those citizens' initiatives and initiators who are trying to promote their concerns, who have the courage to confront Parliament with these concerns, how fair it is, therefore, simply to turn these concerns off cold in this way. I think this impression speaks for itself. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, those who say A have to say B. Not every citizen initiative will perhaps receive more than 200 000 signatures, as has been the case with regard to the Hypo-Research Committee. That's where you agreed because the pressure was too big. But there are also citizens' concerns with fewer signatures, which are no less important and which have also deserved proper processing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] An example of this is the case of the military realgymnasium in Wiener Neustadt. This was simply a protest of the population against the arbitrary closure of a school. And I must say that, even if Parliament has signed 550 people on Parliament's homepage, there has been a second initiative in parallel, which has signed more than 24,000 people. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this alone would justify a proper debate on this issue here in the House. What's this about? – It is a school which was founded in this form, in the form that still exists today in 1965. It is about a school that has been a guarantee of solid officer training in the Austrian Federal Army until now, and it is also about an institution that has the highest recognition in Austrian society. It is an institution at the oldest military academy in the world, and it is also an institution, a piece of Austrian history. The school has a number of successful graduates from sport, politics and business. And they don't understand why you lock this school in a stroke, and that because you just want to save a small, six-digit amount of euro. I believe that Mr Klug's vain ads have cost a lot of what the further preservation of this school would cost. I think you should think about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should also think about how to deal with the students. A complete vintage was recorded in 2014. Then it was said that the school will only be continued for more than two years. I myself was also a student at this institution, and I can imagine how it is for these young people when they hear it, in the sixth or seventh classes they will be expelled from school then. No one knows where to finish the school and go to Matura and so on. Especially social democracy, which is always concerned about social issues, should explain why it deals with young people in this way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this action is therefore completely crazy. I also believe that this action is nothing but a part of the billing of the SPÖ with the popular survey on the German army, which it considers to be a failure. However, I can and must also take the ÖVP into account, which has laid down an impeccable coalition waster here. And I don't want to hold back an exciting story: It was the ÖVP in the Lower Austrian Landtag, which at that time voted very much in favour of my request, with which it was absolutely required to receive this school. And it was also the ÖVP that fell down here in the House and also buried this concern of the citizens in a first-class funeral. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, since Federal Minister Doskozil has already signaled that he wants to talk about the musical chapels, I hope that the SPÖ and the ÖVP will take the opportunity to correct even this serious mistake. Finally, I can promise you: If there is no agreement here from your side, I am convinced that this error will be remedied in a federal government led by the FPÖ in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28855	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28913	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28934	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the citizens' initiative, which is due to the double residence of Separate children are employed, and note that the Childhood and Name Rights Amendment Act 2013 has re-regulated both contact rights and care, all under the premise that both parents are to share responsibility for the child or the children. The focus of any regulation is on the child's well-being, to which everything is to be subordinated, which I also consider very important. And one part of this child's well-being is that the law assumes that children need both local and human stable relationships in order not to raise the psychological burden of children after a separation even more than they do in most cases. In fact, the dual residence model would require a very high requirement for all family members in terms of communication, cooperation, sensitivity and tolerance. And especially in relations that have just been separated, this is, of course, quite, very often not the case. The establishment of a primary residence of the child after the separation of the parents also has a number of consequences for ensuring further rights and transfers, such as family allowances, housing aid or in connection with tax arrangements. Finally, I would like to say that, in the decision of this law, it has also been agreed that at the end of this year, i.e. at the end of 2016, the Ministry of Justice will evaluate the impact of this law. And I think before considering a novel, you should definitely wait for this evaluation. From my point of view, however, there is no need for any new regulation in the area of double residences or the current rules providing for a major residence. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e28974	Mr Pirklhuber has now spoken. - Please. [[Call: Not there]] Then Mr Gahr will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29002	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today we discuss eight petitions and nine citizens' initiatives with different topics and, of course, with different objectives. Overall, the number of petitions and citizens' initiatives in Austria is increasing, and this shows that there are quite a lot of current and urgent concerns for Parliament. It is often about social, health and safety issues, including environmental and nature conservation, but also about the preservation of the infrastructure or also about the cultural sector, when it comes to the preservation of military music in full force. I should like to thank the leaders of the political groups for the fact that, despite different positions, we are always able to find ways and opportunities to undergo the best possible parliamentary treatment of petitions and citizens' initiatives. I should like to address the Parliamentary Citizens' Initiative on ‘SOS’ – Flight Noise’. This is about more participation in the burden on the population. Flight routes should, as far as possible, cross uninhabited territory, a legal anchoring of an absolute no-night flight ban is required, and so on. It is therefore also about the concerns of directly concerned citizens. Another petition concerns medical care. This is about supporting and maintaining a national and comprehensive health care system. In the case of health care in the case of hospitals, Tamsweg and Mittersill. And from my point of view, these two hospitals stand for many other smaller hospitals in rural areas. In my opinion, therefore, it is essential that we also maintain hospitals in structurally weak regions and thus offer as close and as high-quality health care to all people as possible. People in rural regions should not be disadvantaged or put worse than residents of urban areas. Another citizens' initiative, introduced from Tyrol, is the preservation of the Larchwiesen in the Tirol Wipp and Stubaital. These Larch meadows are actually unique for these two valleys. On the one hand, these areas are used as pastures and on the other hand there is also forestry use. In the future, care and care To ensure that these Larch meadows are preserved, it is necessary to facilitate management. The aim of this citizens' initiative is in this sense to consider this widely and to break down on the population so that we can preserve our valuable cultural landscape. Overall, petitions and citizens' initiatives are a sensible and efficient way to deal with concerns directly and unbureaucratically in Parliament. It is important, however, that, in the interests of the population, we also seek solutions and ways to treat them in the sense of the initiators and directly concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29048	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29069	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now referring to the petition of April 2015, “STOP the asylum chaos in Traiskirchen”. It's kind of an irony in that it's a little bit: If we had already known in April what chaos is going to spread over our Republic in connection with asylum violations, then I would have named the petition with the citizens – it was signed by thousands of citizens – not “STOP the asylum chaos in Traiskirchen”, but “STOP the asylum chaos in our Republic of Austria”. Ladies and gentlemen, what are these people? And what was the reason why thousands signed this petition? It's about the asylum center Traiskirchen. I live in the neighbouring town of Guntramsdorf. I have to tell you: Shame what happened in Traiskirchen. Hundreds, if not thousands of people on the streets! We know – the facts are right here too – that there are 80 percent of young men who have arrived illegally. We know that it is usually completely remote from education and also from non-cultural people. And this has also caused massive problems on the streets. I would like to quote the “Kronen Zeitung” which, when there were competence checks by the labour market service, which reviewed some 200 Afghans, said that it was found that hot three have semi-adequate education. And in the rest – and I am now quoting the “Kronen Zeitung”, so please don’t react with indignation now – it’s carpet binders, tea dealers and shepherds. These people have immigrated to thousands of thousands! We have received nearly 100 000 asylum applications in our Republic. Of almost 40 000 first instance decisions, only 13 000 are positive. This means, in summary, that: The asylum industry is already driving scurrily flowers. The Federal Government's asylum policy has failed. And we liberals recommend that the Federal Government finally stop this situation – and not with any absurd limits, which then obviously only apply to playing field and not to other border crossings. So, please, this spectacle is finally to be put to an end! This asylum is really a single disaster! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Below are a few short quotations that support our positions accordingly. In the last few days, they will probably also have been observed by finance minister Hans Jörg Schelling in the media, who would have meant that only about 10 percent of the so-called refugees who arrived here – we say rather: illegal immigrants – have the same training and can then be accommodated on the labour market. 10 percent! So Hans Jörg Schelling, ÖVP. Sebastian Kurz “But, of course, many economic refugees are also coming and here it must be clear that these people have no chance of staying in Europe.” I don't want to race here at all, Captain Niessl. You know the very reasonable, FPÖ-nearly positions of Mr. Landesführer, even though many comrades do not want to hear this in this round. You know exactly what things are. We must stop this industry, the asylum industry, and stop this asylum issue. And the citizens in Austria will also bring in more petitions to, as I said, finally limit this asylum issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29139	Mr Pock has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29161	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Before I go to the Committee on Petitions, I must say that I am always surprised at the topics on which the FPÖ gets the turn to return to asylum, and what choice of words is made here. You'll get really bad sometimes. [[I should like to say that I am very pleased to see NEOS and Greens as well as SPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. New builder: But you look very good for that! You don't look bad for that!]] But what I have to say now concerns the issue of civil participation in general. In this regard, I know that there is now a lot of criticism, criticism of all the opposition parties, namely the question of how to deal with citizens in general. In this context, we made some progress at the beginning of the legislative period. There were cooperations, there were hearings, there were special formats where one experimented with new formats. That all came to a standstill. Since the middle of last year, there has been little effort from the SPÖ and the ÖVP to actually take new steps. And, after mature consideration, it is also clear to me that if on the government side much does not happen, it also has a direct impact on the Committee on Petitions. And because the question is: Where do we stand today in Austria and where could we stand?, one can see how Austria and the right to petition have developed. One can also look at this in comparison and will see that there are states where there is much more in civil participation and much more in innovation. It has already begun with how we have introduced petition law. [[Abg. Wenninger: Who introduced this?]] As an example, I now take Britain: It was introduced to the Bill of Rights in 1689. As usual, Austria has left a little more time – but at the time it was not yet social democrats –: Then it happened in 1867. The discussion of whether to introduce its own Committee on Petitions, because citizens are growing, took place in the UK between 1830 and 1850. In Austria, this was – as the Social Democrats now come into play, Mr. Col. – in 1989. That is, it took 150 years for these ideas to cover nearly 1,400 kilometres. This is not necessarily a master achievement that I would be particularly proud of. How has this area of direct democracy or civil participation developed in the field of petitions? – In the UK, you will have the opportunity, once you have collected 10,000 signatures online, that at least the citizens’ initiative, that is, the citizens, will receive an answer directly from the government. They don't get an answer directly from us. You know that very well. In the case of 100 000 signatures, it is in the UK that the citizens' initiative must be dealt with in plenary. There is no directive for us to do so. However, taking into account that Austria has only 14 percent of the population of Great Britain, this would mean that 1 400 signatures – almost every citizen's initiative – would give citizens an actual answer from the executive, and that with 14,000 signatures, which would still be a large number, we would negotiate the whole here in the plenary room. Why is this issue so important, and why does it also deserve more attention and debate at an earlier time on a normal plenary day? – In the UK, for example, petition law has triggered liberalisation in the economy because the pressure of the economy on Parliament has increased significantly. – That could be a reason why the Social Democrats needed 150 years. That can be too. – It has also led to the resolution of the monopoly. This has gained great awareness in connection with the East India Company. For example, the general right to vote and social security schemes have also been further enforced with pressure – topics that also concern you. The issue is that there has been a great deal of innovation there, because Parliament and citizens have come closer together in a discourse. There have often been decades of conflicts until a problem has been solved. We are still lacking this discourse in Parliament, and it is now coming back to this great period of 150 to 200 years. We have a committee in which citizens cannot speak directly. We have a plenary session in which petitions are briefly read, and we have no serious discourse. That is why it is true that we will not wait another two and a half years to set up the Committee on Petitions. We will not accept the collective report today. We will, I hope, be able to tell you so much in advance, together with some or all opposition parties, to put forward a motion for a Rules of Procedure and to try to negotiate and enforce them over the next two and a half years. In this way, Parliament's grace should be an actual duty of processing and a right for citizens. Everything else is no longer tolerable in the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29218	Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29240	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives' Collection Report, I refer to number 66 on half-half-residence for children in divorce or simply to happy childhood in two households. This citizens' initiative has been taken note of by all political groups other than the liberal after receiving the opinions in the last committee in November. On the part of the contributors, supporters and supporters of this citizens’ initiative, the National Council is asked to ‘ remove the children’s “principal residence ” from separate parents “from the law and to enshrine equal care and a similar stay of children with their parents by law. ” Why is this to be changed? – A separation does not mean the end of the family, but merely brings with it the need for a reorganisation. The love of mother and father accordingly has the child two homes and spends equal amount of time with both parents. Both parents take on equal responsibility. The child is thus given the opportunity to experience balance through different mentalities, values, preferences and rules. The double residence required in this citizens' initiative and also to be enshrined in the law is a care model and not a visitor model. Many studies and surveys show, and experts also repeatedly point out that children want love and affection from mother and father. They don't want to decide between mother and father. They want as much contact as possible with both parents. They do not want a dispute between parents, and if they do, they do not want to be drawn in. I quote Mr. Harald Werneck, he is a development psychologist at the University of Vienna, who says “that double residence usually represents the most favourable reference model for child welfare after a separation of parents.” In summary, the double residence is the continuation of natural parenthood and is proven to offer children of separation the best possible development. We see the concern of this citizens' initiative as different from the SPÖ. From our point of view, this citizens' initiative would have been allocated to the Justice Committee for the benefit of children of divorce.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29286	The next speaker is Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29307	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am dedicated to the citizens' initiative on the preservation of military music. Although this issue is being discussed by some, it is a very important issue. This also shows the number of supporters of this citizens' initiative: Nearly 50 000 Austrians have supported this citizens' initiative. It has now been assigned to the Committee on National Defence. One may be eager to wait or curious about how the new Minister of Defence will treat this and what his non-profit solution in the field of military music will look in full force. Even the People's Procuratorate has accepted this issue. Public attorney Dr. Fichtenbauer started an official test procedure last year, which was also concerned with the preservation of military music. Given the limited speaking time we have left, I would like to focus on committee work in general. I have the right to give the chairman of the Committee of the Pock as regards the procedure and the refusal, once I call it, of the Members of the Government Party, through which nothing goes on. I think the two hearings that we have had are very welcome and would also be good if we continued. There are really very important issues, important concerns of citizens. We should offer this concern to a greater public. We – and there we opposition parties agree – are also in favour of these hearings being held publicly and not only behind closed doors. What I cannot understand is how in the Committee some citizens' initiatives and petitions are handled by the representatives of the government parties when it comes to further treatment respectfully taking note of or assigning to a committee. I say it this way: It is like a red thread that certain petitions and citizens' initiatives, if supported by certain parties or representatives, are taken into consideration and no technical committee is allocated without logical justification. It's not understandable to me. That was already so with my petition “More security through a liberal arms law”. It was only taken note of and not assigned to the Committee on the Interior. Another petition, supported by Mrs. Wurm, which was a further intensification of sexual law, rapes et cetera, was immediately assigned to the Justice Committee. There's a disproportionate I can't understand. For these reasons, we will not vote in favour of the collective report today. I hope that in the near future we will have a change and an improvement in the sense of what President Pock has already mentioned. At this point I also invite the representatives of the government parties to participate in this proposal. As has been said, we also owe applicants the right and proper treatment of these concerns and give them the attention they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29356	Mr Brügl is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29377	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speaker, I should like to refer to the citizen-initiative number 71 on the preservation of military music chapels in all the federal states. The instruction given last year by the Ministry of Defence on the restructuring of military music into an Austrian military music with eight outdoor ensembles led to the dissolution of the former independent military music in the federal states and was also a reason for this resolution. This approach by the former Federal Minister for Defence Mag. In reality, however, smart is a serious attack on the military, cultural, but above all on the social tradition of our homeland. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: You have to explain the “military” to me!]] Mr President, the military music has given rise to a huge attraction to the population over the past decades. They have represented the Austrian German army very well abroad. They have always dominated a wide range of music, from traditional marches to symphonic brass music to contemporary compositions. But above all, the military music chapels in the federal states were an important training and training site and a reliable partner for our Blasmusikverbands. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Donate.]] Since 1955 about 10,000 young people have been through the training system of our military music chapels. What they learned there they also carried out in... – Mr. colleague, there have been 10,000 since 1955. [[Abg. Wenninger: 10,000 a year?]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Oh, that's a difference!]] [[Abg. Portecker: Listen!]] It's true, there were 10,000. Mr President, what they have learned there they have taken with them into their home communities. They took this into their bubble music chapels in the respective communities, where community and companionship are at home and are also lived. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The military music is and has always been the popular link between the army and the population. There have been no official occasions, no important celebrations, in which military music would not have played. Nevertheless, from today's point of view, it is completely irrational, because the alleged savings potential in a range of about € 7 million is in the lower promille area of the army budget. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The damage done here exceeds the benefit of weitem. This is, in fact, an attack on our culture and traditions and is damaging the community, especially in the rural communities of our country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For these reasons, I should like to conclude by saying: [[Quoted print version removed]] The German Federal Minister Mag. Doskozil has the opportunity to divert and show where he stands.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29498	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29556	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29577	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are very happy today to deal with the issues of the Committee on Petitions as early as 7 p.m., otherwise they are usually the last items on the agenda and will be dealt with at midnight. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Because the government doesn't work!]] The reason for this is that we do not have so many agenda items today, otherwise we would probably be back in line at midnight. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Because the coalition is fighting!]] Before further calls come, I have to say: To blame for being so late are all the parties in this House, for the President's agenda sets out. All the club members and the President and the President are sitting in the presidency. [[Abg. Hafenecker: How many applications have you postponed from us?]] Mr President, Mr Hofer is wrong to have the presidency again today. I said to him last time: Please accept, Mr President, that the Committee on Petitions's collective report is quite far ahead of the agenda. This is the only committee in which citizens' initiatives and petitions, i.e. citizens' concerns, are heard directly in this House. It should be seen that this is further on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the current report from the Committee on Petitions includes eight petitions and nine citizens' initiatives. Three petitions and four citizens' initiatives were allocated to the relevant committee. On the last agenda of the Committee on Petitions, a total of 51 points were made, since more and more citizens are addressing Parliament and want their problems to be dealt with here. This wealth of ideas, concerns and demands, which come directly from the citizens to us to the High House, also demonstrates that there is a great interest of people in politics. I would like to draw attention to the Citizens' Initiative No 72, which was allocated to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. This citizens' initiative calls for more AMS funding for training and qualification measures. This objective is to be achieved in particular by making more efficient use of existing budget resources and by changing the allocation key in favour of socio-economic enterprises and non-profit employment projects. The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs will continue to address this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, finally: Just like we're trying to get your clubmen to work on your club directors! Talk to the President and the President so that the next report of the Committee on Petitions is not dealt with as Agenda item 15, 18 or 20, but as Agenda item 1 or 2.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29640	Thank you very much, honourable Member. At the next meeting of the Presidential Conference, I will propose that this item be the first item on the agenda on the next occasion. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] [[Abg. Keck: Thank you!]] I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29678	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives: I take a position on the petition number 44 concerning hospitals Mittersill and Tamsweg. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This petition is no longer entirely new, it carries the date 25. ==References== In the meantime, a lot has changed. The Mittersill Hospital was merged with the Zell am See Hospital to form Tauernkliniken GmbH. The Mittersill Hospital is of course very important for the Oberpinzgau, which is out of question. The Tamsweg Hospital is very important for the Lungau and has since been integrated into the Salzburger Landeskliniken. Ladies and gentlemen! The statement of the state of Salzburg is very interesting. Here, for example, is the opinion of the Tamsweg Hospital: “The petition is obviously based on an incorrect and outdated state of information by the Members.” – Walter Bacher, that’s what you mean. This is, of course, also a very researched statement. Then it continues that the Tamsweg Hospital will be rebuilt by €20 million by 2018. Walter, in this time the number of beds will be reduced from 105 to 84, we know. Then there's this: “The cooperation and networking with the other houses of the Salzburger Landeskliniken ensures a necessary stationary reception even if the bed capacity should once be exploited.” – That is, if it is overlaid. ‘The target size after completion of the General Rehabilitation is different from that of Members’s information status 105 beds.’ Walter, I don't think they took you very seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29727	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is the next speaker: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29749	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I take a position on the petition on the topic of top-youth ticket. The Top Youth Ticket, which was realized in the region of Vienna, Lower Austria, Burgenland, is a praiseworthy success story. It is very successful and in particular helps students and apprentices through cheap mobility since 2013. In the case but also graduates of a voluntary social and environmental year under the 24th century. ==References====External links== This is important, especially young people need mobility today – I welcome: environmentally friendly mobility. Support for public transport is therefore an important concern. The top-youth ticket guarantees that too. The Federal Ministry of Families and Youth shows exemplaryly that a practical solution for young people is possible by means of the Top Youth Ticket. Thank you, Minister Sophie Karmasin and her team, who are trying to expand it. The present petition calls for the age limit to be up to 26. The aim is to increase the age of life to extend the youth ticket to all young people, including those who have not been registered so far, and to offer this top youth ticket throughout Austria. Well, that's positive anyway. The JVP has launched an initiative, especially in Burgenland, to expand it and to involve students. Students should benefit from this supported mobility. By the way, this is also contained in the government programme – I quote –: "To ensure the mobility of all young people and young people in school and school-like training, by extending the existing top-youth ticket to non-occupied groups so far. For students, the tariff offer in public transport (...) is to be further developed.” There we are at the point, that makes sense. But this will only happen if there is cooperation with the federal states, because of course it is also a question of finance. Such cooperation exists, for example, in Burgenland. The Land Burgenland supports students who buy a student ticket on the Vienna lines. 50 percent of these are eligible. The question, therefore, is why, for example, those students who study in Burgenland themselves at a vocational college do not benefit from such support. It would be useful for the countries – in this case the country of Burgenland – to intervene in support and to develop such student tickets or youth tickets in cooperation. It is a shame that JVP Burgenland has long been trying to talk to the member of the state government responsible for mobility, head of state Hans Niessl, but unfortunately has not been successful so far. This is a pity because it only makes sense if you develop offers together for young people and see that there is equal treatment. We should not make any difference between students studying in Vienna and those studying in the Burgenland or in another federal state. That is why we hope that there will be negotiations between young people and country captain Niessl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29807	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29828	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes a printer is just a little slow when printing, but here I now have an important document that I will not keep away from you and which I will address. [[Keeping a document in height]] At the beginning, however, I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr Pock, the committee chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! I have been in this committee for a number of years, and we have achieved some improvements together. We also have a quite good working environment in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, but the citizens do not have the right to bring their concerns into this House in a quality and implementation that meets the minimum standards of democracy policy. I would like to present this to you in two very concrete examples, which show everyone that the current procedure is not really in the sense of the citizens and not in the sense of parliamentarianism. On the one hand, I take the petition of the councillor of the town of Mödling. In this council there are Social Democrats, representatives of the People's Party, Green Municipal Councils, FPÖ municipalities, Bürgerlisten et cetera, so it is a very wide-ranging municipal council. This is due to the problem that chlorpyrifos, a pesticides, was found in the drinking water of its community – a fact that was a scandal there, a small, limited scandal; caused by use in the urban area – has come to the view that the “admission of pesticides with the active substance chlorpyrifos and similar toxic substances” is to be “reallowed or their shipment close to densely populated areas”. That is the petition, it went with a statement and with further ideas to Parliament, to the Minister, we are dealing with this request, and what is going to happen at the end? – Finally, we simply take note of this, with this collection report. On such an important question, it would be the minimum, ladies and gentlemen, to bring these things directly where they belong, namely in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, where the pesticides question is to be discussed and must be discussed. This is all the more so than even nationally we have a pesticides reduction which is based on a European directive, which reduces and does not extend the use of pesticides. So we have a concern that is clearly borne by all the parties in a city, because of a real problem, a real disaster on the ground, which is thank God... [[Abg. Wenninger: Well, disaster was none!]] Well, it could have been a disaster if the citizens and the mayor had not responded immediately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] – That was the case, colleague, please inform yourself in the municipality of Mödling! [[Abg. Wenninger: This was an illegal story...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To mention on this occasion another pesticides, glyphosate, a truly dangerous, apparently carcinogenic pesticides: The Commission intends – and that was the reason why I am still excited about the printer – on 7 July. March this pesticides will be allowed again until the year 2031! From this point of view, I call on the competent authorities of Austria to oppose this extension of the authorisation of glyphosate at European level. [[Congratulations with the Greens, representatives of the Stronach team and the Abg. Riemer.]] That is necessary, ladies and gentlemen. This is in the interests of citizens, and it is also in the interests of efficient, good environmental policy and a precautionary policy in the interests of citizens' health. The second Citizens' Initiative, which I would like to address, is the Parliamentary Citizens' Initiative “SOS – Flight Noise”, which is not exactly a simple issue. The citizens have some very concrete ideas for improvements they want to achieve, for example, that flight routes should be chosen in such a way that populated areas are avoided, or, more specifically, that the third slopes in Vienna should not be built. These are therefore difficult issues. Now you could say: Okay, the economic needs et cetera!, but we have two comments: The one is from the Minister for the Environment – and this is very, very critical in this case. In his reply, the Minister for the Environment cites the tenth Environmental Control Report, which recommends: ‘In view of the high interference of air noise, the threshold for air traffic action plan should be reduced. The approval of air traffic-related projects in the framework of EIA procedures, i.e. environmental impact assessment procedures, ‘should be subject to mandatory rules on the definition of flight routes and, where appropriate, adaptation procedures’. So we actually have a statement that even supports the citizens' initiative. The other answer, from the transport and infrastructure resort, was anything but positive. In such a case: two ministries, two statements. It would also have been right to take note of this not only, but also to discuss this citizens' initiative with both opinions in the committee responsible, the Transport Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! Two examples – first, a petition from a municipal community, second, a citizens' initiative against air noise – show that the procedures are not sufficient as they are currently regulated. There is an existing Rules of Procedure amendment tabled by me and my colleague, Mr Musiol. However, I am also ready, as Mr Pock has already announced, to ensure jointly, cross-party, that, from a certain number of support, binding treatment of citizens is required in the committee responsible. For this we will work together. This time, however, we will explicitly refuse our approval of this collective report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29905	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29927	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pock and Mr Pirklhuber's suggestions on improving the Committee's work should be discussed quite openly in the Committee. In my opinion, in principle, this committee has a very good communication within the parties, and I am convinced, Mr Pock, that a number of suggestions have already been made in this respect, that further improvements in the Committee's work can be achieved. However, against which I am opposed, Mr Hafenecker's statement is that we are dealing with the concerns of the citizens. We are discussing, we are getting opinions, and there is currently the possibility of allocation or consultation in committee, and we are trying to implement them together. [[Abg. Hafenecker: But, colleague, you do it anyway...!]] I should like to focus briefly on a citizens' initiative and a petition allocated to the Constitutional Committee for further consideration. This is about the petition 43: “Adaptation of the pension contribution for ÖBB pensioners and widows/witwer- and orphans pensioners to the Special Pension Restriction Act”. The contributors raise the concern to adapt the pension contribution of ÖBB pensioners to the special pension-limitation law of 5.8 percent, which is also paid by widows and orphans. This petition was granted to the Constitutional Committee, as well as the Citizens' Initiative 61. In this respect, the Signatories call for “the abolition of the pension contribution for pensioners as well as for widows/witwer- and orphans’ pensions”. In this respect, provisions were fixed in the mid-1990s, according to which retired officials and public pensioners have to make a pension contribution, which can be between 3.1 and 25 percent. This citizens' initiative calls for the removal of these pension contributions only from the level of the maximum contribution base. Both concerns were dealt with with in advance with three opinions and now allocated to the Constitutional Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29963	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e29985	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! This report deals with 17 petitions and citizens' initiatives, of which ten have been taken note and seven have been allocated to a specialist committee. If one has listened to my previous speakers, one could have got the impression that the petitions and citizens' initiatives are only briefly read out and then shubbled – that is not so. There are several opinions on all petitions and citizens' initiatives, these opinions are discussed and the petitions and citizens' initiatives are either taken into account or allocated to the Technical Committee. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Eben..., but professional...!]] The fact that the decision of the majority of the opposition often does not please may lie in the nature of the matter. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This does not please citizens, it has nothing to do with the opposition!]] I am dedicated to petitions and citizens' initiatives on nutrition in the school system, on the financing of schools and on the military realgymnasium in Wiener Neustadt. Unfortunately, under the last Minister, the Federal Government's orientation has taken a rather wrong direction. The announced closure of the Wiener Neustadt Military Realgymnasium was one of these measures. The new Minister of Defence, Mag. Doskozil, however, has already shown that he does a lot different and better than his predecessor. In my opinion, we are on a much better path, and we have already decided in the National Council that the ÖBH 2018 structural package should be reviewed again. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Why didn't you send the petition to the committee?]] From my point of view, the closure of the military real-egymnasium is also part of this, and I would strongly recommend that the closure of the military real-egymnasium Wiener Neustadt be re-examined. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You have ended the petition!]] The Citizens' Initiative No. 74 concerns the topic of ‘Life competence nutrition in the school system’. Food and food safety are burning topics of the 21st century. This is the first time that we will be occupied by the century and in the future as well. It is important to bring children closer to the topic of nutrition and to raise them in this direction in school years. Often there are already projects in schools that deal with healthy and conscious nutrition, such as the “healthy jause”, which is often prepared together with the parent club and thereby also strengthens the school community. This creates awareness and is certainly more effective than one of the above-ordered people with diet. It should not be stated in a centralist manner from above, how, when and, above all, how long one has to deal with it, it would only lead to more effort in documentation, report and control again. Also in the petition No. 39, which is concerned with the allocation of funds for schools with a high share of disadvantaged children, I believe that it is appropriate to put in place measures tailored to the location. Teachers still have the most important role in school life. These deserve our respect and appreciation, support and must not be burdened by increasing documentation and control costs. The last two petitions and citizens' initiatives are also examples of the fact that they have been allocated to the technical committee, namely the teaching committee, and are to be dealt with in a professional manner in the teaching committee. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Partly!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30091	I call Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30112	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Also a warm welcome. I refer to the petition No. 46 on the topic Top-Jugendticket for young people under the age of 26. I brought this petition myself to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. I can mention that it is necessary to take young people seriously. We don't need a two-class society among young people, so I allow myself to quote briefly from the current government programme: "To ensure the mobility of all young people and young people in school and school-like training, by extending the existing top-youth ticket to non-occupied groups so far. For students, the tariff offer in public transport (student ticket) is to be further developed.” – This is what the government programme says. I would like to remind you briefly that, in March of last year, the competent youth minister Karmasin referred to the following question: If the Top Youth ticket is available to all students until the 24th century. Year of life is extended and implemented throughout the federal territory, then it costs €150 million per year, in the current legislative period it is not eligible for funding. With this statement, it makes up 100 per cent of its contribution to Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner, who in 2013 in his capacity as Minister of Finance, apologised as a family minister that there should be a comprehensive introduction of a favourable youth ticket throughout the federal territory. [[Deputies Hafenecker and Schmuckenschlager:Familiesministeren!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Yes, he means family minister!]] We can see that there is no uniform view at all. I therefore call on both ministers of the economy to end the blockade, for one thing is clear: The financial discharge of families is associated with the discharge of young people and students. In Burgenland, in Vienna and in Lower Austria, we are already progressing with good examples. There the top-youth ticket costs €60 for a whole year, and you can drive it throughout the area of the East-Region Transport Association. What Mr Berlakovich did in the past was partly incorrect: The country of Burgenland itself finances 50 percent of the semester ticket for students in Vienna; the remaining 50 percent are financed by many municipalities, only by ÖVP-dominated communities in most cases not. So the demand is quite clear: No two-class society among young people, the top-youth ticket must apply to all young people – for students, for apprentices, for students – throughout the federal territory. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Since the petition was assigned to the Family Committee, I ask the competent youth minister, but also the responsible finance minister – he was in the hall very briefly – once again to support this petition in terms of content, because in times like this we also need the money for students and families. And at least €150 million must also be financially manageable for students in Austria. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30168	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30192	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I would like to correct: Mr Preiner turns himself out and says that I would have said something wrong. I can only conclude that he didn't listen properly. I have said that the student ticket of the Vienna Lines is 50 per cent funded by the Land Burgenland and that I see in it a disparity with those students who attend colleges in Burgenland and travel from Burgenland to Eisenstadt and Pinkafeld, who do not receive this grant of a student ticket. That is why I say that country captain Niessl should admit this not only to students in Vienna, but also to others, and I am actually correcting that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] So I'm not saying the untruth! Listen Please!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30229	I call Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30250	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The citizens' initiative 71 aims to preserve military music in all the federal states in full strength. Ladies and gentlemen! This initiative is not only so remarkable because within a short time 50 000 people have supported this initiative, no, it is also so special because the promoters – these are the “Military Music Friends Austria” with Obmann Wolfram Baldauf and the Austrian Blasmusikverband with President Matthew Rieger – were not tired of making proposals in the run-up to the decision, how possible savings potential could be raised and at the same time the military music in the federal states could be preserved in a reasonable strength of play. One even went so far as to offer financial support through the association and also potential sponsors. Unfortunately, in no way did you go into all of this. Unfortunately, it is no longer about the preservation, but about the restoration of military music in the federal states. The ensembles 1 to 8 are not only a weak substitute for the audience, but also the potential recruits show so little interest that some ensembles will soon have to go out with only ten men, and that, ladies and gentlemen, already deserves the predicate “more embarrassing”. [[Abg. Steinbichler:... remove!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The proponents of the initiative and many here in the house rely on the reason and understanding of our new Minister Hans Peter Doskozil. We trust him to take up the proposals that are on the table in order to re-install a sparse, slender and forward-looking military music in the federal states – a military music system where young recruits receive excellent training. [[Abg. Wenninger:... together with the police, I have the silver...!]] And for that, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I am convinced that we do not need a resolution from the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30300	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30321	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! In the petition concerning top-youth ticket was spoken of by young people, by students. I would ask you to also talk about young people with disabilities who are in employment initiatives, which are also excluded. It would be important to include this group when talking about extending the top youth ticket. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to refer to the Citizen's Initiative No. 72 to speak. Mr Pirklhuber, this initiative concerning no reduction in the AMS funding has been allocated to the Committee on Social Affairs and was discussed there at the last meeting. This is an initiative that has really been treated very well. Three points were requested. We have received two opinions, one from the Federal Ministry of Finance and one from the Federal Ministry for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection. In my view, we have received very good opinions on this and have been assigned to the Committee on Petitions in the Committee on Petitions. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Together!]] - Together, exactly! And if you look at the completion, you can say that the citizens' initiative has actually been met by 100 percent. On the one hand, it has been fulfilled that although the Federal Budget Act has not been amended, the funds for AMS policy can nevertheless be re-turned in the context of the budgetary negotiations. This is a very good point, because if funds for 50+ are not used up, they can be used for other training measures. This was a call for the initiative and was also implemented. The second requirement was that funds should be made available to social economic operators and employment projects to a certain extent. That is what we have ensured. 40 percent will be made available to social-economic enterprises and joint-profit employment projects. This is a very important measure, which has also been very prominently implemented by the Federal Minister for the Disabled, because it was very important to him that SÖBs and GBPs be strengthened because it is a labour market policy measure that really benefits the people concerned. The third point was that the funds for supporting short-time work are not taken from the AMS funding but from the current budget. And that was also implemented. This is an initiative in which we can say together that the interests of the citizens were best represented. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Not always!]] - But in this case already.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30377	Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30399	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! I am referring to the Citizens' Initiative 66, which concerns “half – half – double residence”. The main stay is to be deleted on the grounds that the current social situation is different now and that both parents should be treated equally. At first glance, this citizens' initiative seems to be fair and in order. We have received three opinions from the Committee, and it has expressed that both parents should be included in the education for child welfare, but the main stay should be with a parent. Now the question is: How does this actually work in everyday life? Is the child happy once it sleeps in the bed and once in the other, when it enjoys two different educational styles and has to constantly switch between different families? – The psychological side is concerned about this, and the basic idea of children’s rights should be that the child’s well-being is the top priority, and in childhood, of course, continuity is particularly important. One should protect the child from extraordinary loads, and a primary reference person is already beneficial. The children then often do not trust to say that they do not feel so comfortable because they want to be responsible for the happiness of the parents. I think that this is not only about the needs of parents, but above all about the child's need. Thus, we believe that the general solution is not 50 – 50, but that it should be tested in each individual case so that the best is simply for the child, because the child should be at the centre of the child.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30438	I call Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30459	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Introducing a brief comment on Mr Höbart's statement at the beginning of this debate, which has referred to refugees and asylum seekers as "an distance from education and also from non-cultural people". Ladies and gentlemen! This was not the first verbal slipper of Mr Höbart, and I am deeply disappointed and shocked at the fact that there has not been a reaction by either the President-in-Office or the plenary to such a despicable statement. Ladies and gentlemen! We must not find ourselves with a division which is also in this House, just because it is constantly repeated by some Members of the Liberals. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we, as elected democratic representatives, do not immediately respond, shout and protest, then we are going exactly the way that is going on in other parts of Europe. I really ask – it is not a criticism, it is a request on my part – on such issues, also in a plenary debate that has been running for a long time to raise awareness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Is something reasonable coming?]] Before someone comes out and says it wasn't said like this: I repeat, he said: education-free and non-cultural people. [[Abg. Kickl: But they are strange to our culture!]] Of course, people from Afghanistan, Eritrea or Syria have a different cultural history than we do, but to understand them to be culturally strange, they have no culture, in reality also means that they are not people. [[Abg. Kickl: The word that would have fit here would be cultureless! Mr Höbart said, however, “uncultural”!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be done by democratic institutions and, above all, by the Austrian Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30541	Mr Hafenecker spoke on an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30566	Mr President. Mr Wenninger, I have already asked you to use your ears to listen. If you had done this, you would have heard that Mr Höbart said: I quote from the “Kronen Zeitung”. He mentioned this twice, and I ask you to read it in the Stenographical Protocol.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30599	This, of course, was not an actual correction. That's what I'm referring to. Mr Lipitsch came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30623	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the collective report with 17 different points ahead of us, and there are so many allocations contained in this collective report as we have never had before. Mr Pirklhuber, you yourself quoted “SOS – Flugslärm” and I assume that when an Environment Minister writes that legislation, environmental impact assessment and so on, which is also applied everywhere and we do not talk about a runway. That is why I also believe that the answer is sufficient that the Ministry of the Environment looks forward to the fact that noise pollution for the arrivings is accordingly low. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] As I said, this is your view. It is only a brief comment on Mr Pock's comments, because he said that everyone should be able to speak here: I have a lot of contacts when citizens' initiatives come here. Today, for example, I have had contact with a youth movement, which was about living. We then discussed directly with them and have the opportunity to include their arguments here. We've been holding some hearings. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Two!]] - Two, yeah. One was, I think, the first thing to TTIP, something very important. If we have a petition to TTIP again next week, we have dealt with it for our area and passed it on. There are themes that we get again and again. You have to say quite honestly: Such petitions are partly signed by Members. Only citizens' initiatives with 500 signatures come in directly from the citizens. I think that's where we have to distinguish. It is in the final effect that the Committee will decide according to the Rules of Procedure, how we deal with them, and we are very committed to many things. Mr Hell has referred to the pensions, and we have already discussed them this morning. There's also been a petition to the Pension Cash Act. As this petition has been written, it clearly shows what we have discussed this morning, because it says inside that the pension fund law is the second and third status of pensions so propagated by many. But this depends on the stock markets and investors, and we do not want our pensions to depend on them and whether people invest or not. We trust in the state pension system, and I think that's safe.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30671	There is no further word for this. The debate is closed. There is also no wish by the rapporteur for a final word. We are therefore voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 886 of the Supplements on petitions No. 26, 39, 43 and 44, 46, 49, 51 and 52 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 61, 65 and 66, 70 to 72 and 74 to 76. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hafenecker, colleagues and colleagues, concerning the preservation of the military real-estatemnasium Wiener Neustadt. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brückl, fellow Members, on the preservation of military music despite the planned budgetary savings. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of ÖVP) Overturned!]] [[20:12:00]] 16. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (995 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Scheidemünzengesetz 1988 and the Bundeshaftungsabschreibzengesetz are amended (1001 d.b.) 17. Point Report and request of the Committee on Budgets on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law establishing a unit of decommissioning (1002 p.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30733	We now come to the points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30760	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Before I deal with the content of this draft law, I would like to say a few words about the origin: The draft was made available to the National Council on 28 November. ==References== The assessment period for external bodies such as the Court of Auditors, the National Bank or the Federal Government ended on 11 January. January. That is, if you calculate holidays and days off, we had exactly nine days to review. Now I am quite a friend of quick decisions and quick decisions, but here the assessment period was very short. It should be borne in mind that this is at least €2 billion in liability and that there is a return resolution of almost half a billion euros. In the event of such an overturning action, I am already accused of less thoughtful structural change, but rather the Minister of Finance, in view of his enormously strained budget and massive increase in expenditure and excessive public debt in the search for each cent, has obviously met with the reserves of the Austrian coin. And these reserves are now obviously to be dissolved and silvered as soon as possible in order to stabilise the budget at least in the short term. So this has nothing to do with sustainable budgetary policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, after this introductory criticism, one might well be trying to express some praise to the Federal Government that it is doing so at all. Don't worry, Federal Minister, I can't do it anyway, because, on the one hand, you, and I appreciate that, on the other hand, you are in line with a suggestion from the Court of Auditors, which has recommended in 2013 to evaluate the possibilities that are suitable for this, not to bind the financial resources permanently in the Österreich AG coin. So you can really appreciate this rescheduling solution, which is also all right. At first glance, this also looks like a good thing, as the covenant falls with a blow of €436 million. As can be seen from the impact-oriented impact assessment, this reduces public debt by 0.15 percent by 2044. The impact assessment does not mention any negative or mitigating effects. At first glance, this is really a late Christmas gift from the daughter Coin Austria to the father's state. But in reality it's not that beautiful. At the end of your draft is the decisive section that could salt the whole soup, which will increase the liability limit by € 2 billion according to the German Federal Liability Limits Act, namely the € 2 billion with which the Republic now has to hold for the Austrian coin, because the reserves for the repayment obligations which the coin has indeed has will be dissolved. Now, of course, it would be very interesting, Mr Federal Minister, to know to what extent the Austrian coin had to resort to its return returns so far. It would also be interesting to know to what extent coins have been redeemed so far. And it would also be interesting to know whether the Federation will now have to take appropriate recovery precautions. Unfortunately, there is no word about this in your explanations of the draft law. And in the clear text, this means that Parliament should adopt a law here today without knowing its impact. And this is about €2 billion. We cannot agree with the best of wills. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From my point of view, there are now only two options: Either the Federal Ministry of Finance is not clear about the budgetary impact itself, and the Federal Minister is only about 436 fast million. Then, to a great extent, the law is not responsible. Or the Federal Ministry has carried out an appropriate risk assessment, which I hope very much. It is, to a great extent, a political concern if this assessment has been abstained from Parliament. Mr President, I should like to remind you in this context that budgetary sovereignty is still with Parliament. And if Parliament is to have essential facts in order to exercise this budgetary sovereignty, it is a worrying deterioration in the core competence of this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I conclude by saying: A serious decision on this draft within the meaning of Austrian taxpayers is not possible on the basis of the information provided. That is why we will not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30845	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30867	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Haider, you can also find a hair everywhere in the soup. If the government does not implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations, the opposition screams: Fire! If recommendations from the Court of Auditors are implemented, the opposition does not fit either. [[Abg. Kickl: But now he just explained it!]] Mr President, you have referred to the reserves. If you dissolve 436 million of deposits and then carefully assume liabilities in a multiple of these deposits, then I can only say: The reserves will probably have corresponded to what the Austrian coin used here. And if you take over higher liability here, that's just a security factor. I think that this is a good solution and is only to be welcomed. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: That's not true now! Together with the SPÖ!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! It is very important to us that the cash is preserved. The Austrians and all citizens use the cash to 89 percent for all their businesses. It is an essential aspect of the freedom of citizens that they can choose which means of payment they pay for, and that is why it is so important to us that the cash is preserved. Of course, we are aware that the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and terrorist financing must be an essential part that should continue to be pursued, but it is nevertheless very important to us in this context that at all levels all our government members and all those who influence the European Union insist on it, because I believe – my clubman will also talk about it – that it is a good measure and a good sign if we in the Austrian Parliament are also doing constitutional protection of the cash here in the Austrian Parliament. If we know that at European level all 28 Member States would have to vote in favour of the abolition of the cash, it would be a good sign if at least our members of the government could never agree to such a proposal at European level. [[Abg. Kogler: Who wants to do this?]] Mr Kogler, I think you don't read newspapers and you don't belong to possible will formations. We in Austria don't want that! The Greens and Mr Rossmann are happy to say whether they are at the cash or not. [[Call to the Greens: This is a shadow debate!]] This is not a shadow debate at all, but something that threatens us, and that is what we want to turn away.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e30972	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31037	Mr MMag has now arrived. DDr. Fuchs word for word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31068	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! I expect a finance minister to have draft laws, regulations and decrees that leave the ministry, in accordance with law, comprehensible and coherent. The Federal Law, which amends the Scheidemünzengesetz and the Bundes Liability Upper Limits Act, is a negative example of the legalization of Finance Minister Schelling. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The presentation of the financial impact and impact assessment in this government template is incorrect. The financial impact on the federal government is estimated at WFA with additional revenue of 436.3 million. But this sum is not correct. The Minister of Finance has forgotten that there is also a tax law in Austria. There is a special provision in the National Bank Act, which provides that the profit distributions of the Österreich AG coin are to be taxed at the National Bank, i.e. that the federal government cannot flow € 436.3 million – except the National Bank commits tax evasion, which I do not expect – but only the reduced amount, and that is € 327.2 million. The corporate tax amounting to € 109.1 million is in accordance with § 8 para. 1 Financial compensation law has a Community federal tax and therefore also has a financial impact on the countries and municipalities. But you can't find anything in the WFA at all. The WFA only has a financial impact on the federal government. What do you think of a finance minister who ignores the tax law and the financial compensation law of his government? [[Federal Minister Schelling: Des is’ a Gaude!]] What do you think of a Minister of Finance, who took part in the Committee on Budgets on 9 October? This error is pointed out on February 2016 and yet does not change his draft law? And what do you think of a Minister of Finance, the critical analysis of the 4th budget service? Commenting on February 2016 in the Budget Committee, the following comments were made: The budget service is not always right. Mr Finanzminister, the budget service under the direction of Dr. Berger is doing an excellent and high-quality work, for which we would like to thank ourselves very much on this occasion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Two other criticisms: The present draft law does not provide for a liability fee for the federal government, although the federal government assumes a liability of €1.5 billion under this law. By renouncing a liability fee, the dividend of the Austrian coin increases to the OeNB, which leads to higher corporate tax revenue, but which the federal government must share with the countries and municipalities again. But if the liability only meets the covenant, there should be no advantage for the countries either. In this context, I therefore call for a legal anchoring of a liability fee for the federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister of Finance has also remained guilty of a further answer in the Committee on Budgets, those to the question of why the ceiling of liability in the Federal Liabilities Act should be increased by €2 billion when it takes over €1.5 billion. Furthermore, it should be noted that the planned distribution of profits to the Federal Government as a superdividend within the meaning of ESA 2010 must be qualified and therefore cannot have an impact on the Maastricht deficit, even if the Minister of Finance always claims otherwise. Recently, I have to say again and again that the Minister of Finance does not comply with the rule of law. On the one hand, the 67-page registration office of the Minister of Finance is illegal in parts, on the other hand, a chief official of the Ministry of Finance, in a letter to the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, dated 19 February, on the other hand. In November 2015, a WKO division entered into a transitional arrangement with regard to registers and product designations by 2020. Mr Finanzminister, I should like to point out to you that this transitional arrangement in letter form, which I do not wish to criticise here, does not even have a legal character and is also illegal. Mr Finanzminister, you and your ministry too have to stick to the level building of the legal order. Anxiety You ensure that your draft laws are correct in content and ensure that they do not come to pass that contradict the law! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the government's request for cash: I am pleased that the government parties were finally able to make a request for the maintenance of the cash. It is a first step in the right direction, but it does not go far enough. We need a corresponding government target, which constitutionally enshrines the right to cash, and therefore the FPÖ has today filed such a request that ensures a constitutional anchoring of the right to cash payment. The abolition of the 500-€ picture is just ahead, and here the Federal Government can take the proof of the truth as to how serious it is with the cash. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, profits are also washed by tax returns. Here, more sensitivity on the part of the financial management would be required to check tax returns not only for caught costs but also for caught profits. How credible the protection of the cash by the government parties is is evidenced by a provision in the Financial Criminal Law, which the government parties have decided under the Tax Reform Act 2015/2016, which I may read to you briefly: “§ 51. (1) The unlawful nature of the financial regulation is to be blamed, (...) who infringes a prohibition on the performance or receipt of cash payments. (2) The unlawfulity of the financial regulation shall be fined up to EUR 5 000." So much about the seriousness of the request of the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31136	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31157	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have found this interesting now, how laborious the flaws of the liberals are to explain why they are against this law – there must be page 67 of the explanatory notes, footnote 5. In essence, it is a reasonable solution. A proposal from the Court of Auditors will be put forward – this is not rare, we often do: This is where the Court of Auditors' proposals are being implemented. The criticism towards the liberals: If, for good reasons, we sometimes fail to implement a proposal from the Court of Auditors, it will be criticized. But if we implement a proposal from the Court of Auditors, they are against it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – It is not easy for the liberal to make politics and to understand politics in this way. As to whether this was so short-term, everyone can consider himself: This proposal for a law has landed on Parliament's homepage quite exactly two months ago. That is, two months after this proposal was put on Parliament's homepage, we decide. That's two months. I don't understand what the short term is supposed to be. But you may be able to explain why two months should be short-term. [[Call the FPÖ: Because the arguments are wrong!]] On the question of cash: So quite honestly, I do not need the motion for a resolution because I have confidence in the finance ministers that he is doing what he says publicly here and what all the parties have said here – I do not know any Members of this House who would have said anything else. [[Abg. Auer: That's dangerous!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Why don't you criticize Klubobmann Schieder?]] I do not need the request, I also have such confidence in you, Minister of Finance Schelling, that you adhere to it, even if we do not now decide on it in a resolution, but the coalition partner absolutely wants it. You have to figure out where confidence is at home, and of course I can't say anything meaningful right now. But please: The country's constitution is certainly not a waste dump for policy-placebo instruments. You have to say that clearly. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In that respect, it is right that we do not write this into the Constitution. The Constitution is not a place for political actionism, but in it the fundamental values of our society are established. [[Call the FPÖ:At cash!]] And please: Money has been available since when? How many thousands of years have there been cash? And did that ever have to be in the Constitution to make it exist? – It’s just an actionism I don’t understand. Everyone can be happy to care about the unimportant problems of the country. We like to take care of the important problems. And the important problems we have in Austria are labour market, jobs, economic growth. These are the important issues we need to take care of – and of course also the question of justice, how income is distributed, how wealth is distributed, and because everyone who provides a service also has a certain income with his income. That is why, for example, we have made the tax reform to reduce taxes and taxes on work, while ensuring that capital and assets make a more just contribution. These are the important problems, these are the things where people then have more cash in the stock exchange – and not any placebo provision in the Constitution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Kogler.]] Last point: There is also a federal law on the creation of the decommissioning bank. In principle, this is about the fact that, in the case of accidental tax profits arising from hypodegradation, no corporate tax will be payable which would have to be shared with the municipalities and countries. We all know: Hypo is not a business, was never a business, will never be a business for the taxpayer, and therefore you don't have to pay profit taxes in the mortgage either. In addition, one has to say one more thing at the Hypo – and that is what we have clearly worked out in the Committee of Inquiry for over a year now –: The problem was the liability and that the competent finance councils Pfeiffenberger, Haider, Dobernig – these three were the only finance councils at the time that all had a stop button – simply never pressed this stop button. To date, it is our problem that these Blue Finance Councils have acted responsibly and have not pressed the stop button. Unfortunately, we can all do the damage together now. In my opinion, this responsibility of the Blue Finance Councils in Carinthia has already come out clearly in the Committee of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31264	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31285	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! We will, of course, agree to the amendment of the law on divorce, not a question. Whether or not you, Minister Schelling, have claimed in the Committee that part of this resolution will reduce the structural and the Maastricht deficit, remains questionable. I am of the opposite opinion. The relevant rules clearly say that the Maastricht deficit is neutral and that it does not reduce it. We'll see what the bill looks like at the end of the day. What you are doing here, Minister of Finance, is what you accuse others of, namely, feeling of well-being. But now I would like to turn to a request from the government on the subject of cash. I have to say that this concerns me in the last few days, and I would like to start by saying that I and we Greens are of course for maintaining the cash as a means of payment. I could actually stop that. Don't do it. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] When it comes to maintaining cash as a means of payment, we agree with Greens. Thus happens in the Landtag in Carinthia, so happens in the Landtag in Upper Austria. But this motion for a resolution, Mrs Tamandel, at least listens to me! –, goes far beyond. [[Abg. Tamandl: Always!]] In fact, this provides for an unlimited retention of cash in payment transactions. This means nothing but that you do not even know what you have decided in the course of the last tax reform. At that time, you decided on a new payment scheme in the construction industry. - Have you forgotten, Mrs. Colleague? – Pages, please, scroll, before you submit such a motion for a resolution here in this House! [[Abg. Kogler: Maybe we can do this again!]] The motion for a resolution is, in its tendency – precisely because it is complete – also against the introduction of cash caps, as proposed by Minister of Finance Schäuble and which are quite useful. Whether that has to be the 5 000 € or if it has 10 000 € – wait a bit! – or 15 000 €, you can discuss it. [[Abg. Stefan: Why?- Oh, my God!]] But at least it makes it difficult for the Black Money Box industry and makes a contribution to the fight against fraud, corruption, black money and money laundering, Mr. Cot. You can reach this with a upper limit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If, for example, individuals like Mr Lopatka want to go here and anchor the cash as a means of payment in the Constitution, yes, this is a pure folklore event. Please don't be angry with me! We have all the constitutional lawyers of this country on our side, because it is completely ineffective, because this applies to EU law and not to national law. [[Abg. Kogler: Ineffective and stupid too!]] And stupid, stupid. Because colleague Werner Kogler says: Yes, stupid is what Mr Mahrer's Secretary of State wants, because he wants to introduce a 1 000 € figure. So, what are you doing? Don't we have any more important problems to solve in the country? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Tax refugees, war refugees, unemployment, these are the problems we should face – and not this monetary populist folklore. That was Copyright Werner Kogler. But at the end of the day again a clear yes from the greens for the maintenance of cash in payment transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31388	Mr Rossmann, I give you a call for an order for the term ‘thumb’ towards Secretary of State Mahrer. [[Abg. Kogler: He just quoted me!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] – I listened very closely! Thank you. This is what Mr Ing has to say. May. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31431	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would not like to refer to the divorce law, not to the Federal Liability Law, but to the law that has actually provided the most discussion in the Committee, namely the law that amends the law on the creation of a unit of decommissioning. I would like to say a few words: What's going on with that? What are we gonna do? Why are we doing that? The unit is expected to have a debt cut, and this means that a debt cut necessarily leads to a recovery profit, a profit that is contained in the books, but is not paid out in cash. This recovery profit automatically leads to a corporate tax, as loss payments outside the insolvency right can only be compensated for 75 percent. Therefore, there is an automatic increase in the cost of the unit, unlike in the case of insolvency. Now, however, we want to make a reasonable offer to creditors, especially in this unit of decommissioning, where more comes out than in the case of insolvency and no less. In addition, the Decommissioning Unit Directive contains a No-Creditor-Worse-Off principle, i.e. no worsening of the unit against insolvency. The proposed change in the law is exactly the result of the fact that there is no distortion here, and we are resolving this with a corporate tax exemption. At first it looks as if this would be a better creation to other companies – it is not in that case, because the unit of degradation is finally liquidated, and one cannot use the loss talks elsewhere. In total, this corporate tax exemption leads to a reduction in the liability of the country of Carinthia and thus to a lower payment probability of the taxpayer. That is why I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31467	Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31489	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As a member of the Hypo-Research Committee, I ask you a few questions: What lessons can we draw from the Hypo Committee by today's decision on the Federal Liability Limits Act? What have we done in recent months in this Committee of Inquiry in the course of 58 meetings with more than 100 persons most involved? At the heart of the issue is the lack of a decisive element in the banking sector, an element in order to avoid the unbridled acceptance of liability from local authorities. It is high time that this Federal Upper Limits Act was passed, in the interest of taxpayers. This decision is not only crucial at the federal level, but would also be extremely important at the national level. Why? – Let’s take a look at Carinthia! Yes, what happened to the liability? – Within a few years, the Federal State of Carinthia has received billions of arrests in dizzying heights, up to ten times the national budget. The liabilities were on the one hand the business model of the Hypo, on the other hand, the country has collected strong commissions and thus financed Prestige projects: Airline, Seebühne et cetera. [[Abg. Kogler: Balkan Mafia!]] The then political leaders – we have heard it briefly today – not only the then head of state Haider, also the financial country referent Pipeberger and Dobernig would have had it in their hands to end this game with the liabilities. But you didn't. In Carinthia, politics has calculated responsibly and insisted that if something goes wrong, the state will jump in anyway. And finally, it turned out that a government takeover of the mortgage bank was the only way to limit the already huge damage. If there had been no nationalization, what would have been? – In the event of insolvency, the billions of liability would have been beaten at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, what lessons can we draw from the results of this committee of inquiry? – There must be a limitation of liability, not only at federal level, but above all at national level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31527	Mr Mag. Zakostelsky is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31549	Mr President, the National Council, I mean! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen at home on the screens! The Scheidemünzen Act has already been addressed, and we are aware that the Federation will assume responsibility for the culprit of the Austrian coin, and as a result - and this has already been mentioned - the resolution of the provisions that had to be formed by the Austrian coin over the past few years will be possible. After all, this – and this sum should be mentioned again – frees funds in the order of € 400 million and can flow into the budget. And contrary to Mr Rossmann's statement, I think the experts are very agreed that this will also have a positive impact on Austria's indebtedness, according to Maastricht accounts, but of course it is especially important to stress that these proceeds are reasonable, saying: productive, used in the Republic. The Court of Auditors report has already been quoted. In 2010, it was pointed out that capital formation is very limited in terms of profit-sharing opportunities. In conclusion, I believe that the way and steps taken by our Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs are good, sensible and right, ladies and gentlemen. And I think the greatest compliment has in fact already been given to Mr Rossmann: He meant that our Federal Minister was working on a “well-being budget”. That is what our citizens want: a good budget so that we can all feel comfortable with it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Rossmann: I meant it differently! I meant this as a criticism of Mrs. Fekter!]] About Coin and Cash: I am of course very close to the statements made by our clubman – colleague Tamandl has also mentioned this – that the cash must not be abolished. And if necessary, we will, of course, anchor this in our constitution, as an important signal effect. In concrete terms, I believe it is an important point to point out that the abolition of the cash would lead to the end of the privacy of our citizens. Finally, the supervision of every individual citizen, who buys where and what, would be perfectly possible. The abolition of cash would thus be the beginning of the glass citizen in Austria. Apart from that, a fundamental right to a bank account would have to be introduced, because otherwise many Austrians would be completely cut off from the payment process, and especially when we think of our older fellow citizens, it should be noted that these are the ones who use the cash even more often than young people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] [[Abg. Maurer: No one wants to abolish the cash!]] Nor should we forget, Mrs Colleague, that the cash has other important functions, namely helping citizens to better look at expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can agree, if it is said anyway, that no one wants to abolish the cash, that if it really makes sense, we should also anchor the cash in the Constitution. However, since there is still a second of speaking time, I would also like to help those colleagues who have been a little heavy in calculating today, or simply to give the hint of taking the tomorrow’s “Kronen Zeitung” into their hands, because it explains very well what it looks like with the safety of the pension system. There I am at the Clubobmann Lugner – pardon: Luger – of course, it is both right. [[Abg. Lugar: Lug a r is my name!]] The pension system is then safe when you are ready to apply a pocket player trick, saying 10 billion or soon 20 billion out of the federal budget. But as I said, in the “Kronen Zeitung” – no unknown paper – it is explained quite simply tomorrow. And the title also tells our compatriots everything: Without reform, the allowance for pensions increases by threefold. So let's go to the reforms! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31624	I call Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31645	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! In the Scheidemünzengesetz, it is essentially a question of the fact that the profit deposit or the provision of returns of these retained amounts is also subject to a very high risk of exposure, and it is also useful that the law to be decided on is also the responsibility of the federal government. However, the Federation also assumes a liability for this. And I think that's all right in this form, too. The Österreich AG coin can also focus on its exclusive core business. The fact that liability can also be considered to be particularly useful does not always have to be explained by negative examples, but you can have different positions for this without further delay. But when we think about the federal liabilities in other areas, we should already realize that the very important economic signals and support for the Austrian economy are. Just think of the corporate liquidity strengthening law or the export promotion law and export funding law – all important laws that ensure that the Austrian economy can operate properly and that, in the end, jobs are created as well! We have already discussed this afternoon about the quiet living. And the federal government has also assumed liability with the housing investment bank. This will also do what is the task and responsibility of a government and of a Parliament: to ensure that people have jobs, that work can be created, and that people have wealth and social security. That is why it makes sense for the Federation to assume liability. And we are far, far away from our liability limit. On the contrary: The liability has even declined. I therefore see these 2 billion, which are now to be decided by this Decision of the Upper limit law, as not really tragic. I think we're deciding a law here that's thought-out, not a quick shot, as has been claimed, but that there are good reasons for that. They have also been explained. And that is why you can agree to this without further delay in this form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31683	I call Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31706	Mr President. Minister! High house! As part of the presentation from the Committee on Budgets, I am now allowed to make a few explanations on the amendment of the law on divorce. Austrian coin AG is legally obliged to exchange euro and cent coins in paper money or to take back old schilling and grossen coins and switch them to euro coins. The Scheidemünzen Act prohibits the creation of a provision for repayment obligations. Because of this very provision, which has already been enshrined in the law since 1988, the Austrian Mint AG has created a profit reserve instead of the legally prohibited repayment. As a result of the necessary set-aside, capital formation and a reduction in the potential for profit-sharing, which the Court of Auditors has already referred to in its 2013 report on the Austrian coin. Especially in the return obligation for euro and cent coins, which may lead to a reduction in the coin circulation or short-term exchange of coins by banknotes or new coins, such a large return provision has been established that more than half of the assets are used solely for the use of the tied funds. Precautions formed for these purposes shall be dissolved and flow to the covenant. We are talking about a one-time payment of € 436.6 million in 2016. This results in two positive effects: On the one hand, it will prevent Austria AG from becoming an ever-increasing profit reserve and becoming an investment bank. On the other hand, the one-off payment has a positive impact on the budget. The positive effect up to 2045 has an amount of € 849 million. In future, provisions or reserves shall no longer be eligible for the purposes set out in the law. – It is a good law for which I advertise your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31739	Mr Kirchgatterer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31761	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To the speakers of the Freedom Party, I would like to point out that the federal finances are stable, that the government's conclusion was not only once, but was regularly better than budgeted that budgetary discipline is put on, because budgetary discipline is important, and this is clear year after year. The opposition has been regularly misguided. That's fact! For the Federal Financial Balance: For us, it is important that the tasks be financed and relocated where they can best be done, whether federal, country, city or municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to mention the positive impetus of the tax reform, the housing offensive, the positive reform of the standards that bring new areas of activity to small and medium-sized enterprises, consumer price reductions, increased economic growth, the strengthening of the economy. These are impulses, these are active measures that invigorate domestic purchasing power, promote gastronomy, trade and stimulate investment. This has a positive effect on the mood, and this should be known to us, ladies and gentlemen. Some economic researchers point out that the mood and expectation are very important. Ladies and gentlemen, I can take my home town of Wels as an example: Welser Messe, the great Welser Energiesparmesse. The first days are already over, and one is good things that the new consumer behaviour, modified by the tax reform, is also motivated by the fact that we can achieve a particularly good result. This additional motivation should be used in many areas – yes, I say, in all economic sectors. To strengthen, strengthen, strengthen the labour market and the economy, bring our country forward, bring the committed compatriots forward, and bring the Austrians further. I thank you for your support on these points.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31797	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e31818	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the near future, a few comments on the debate, which has also been held here today, on cash. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] I think we all agree – there is no contradiction – that it is important not only for the Austrians that the cash remains, but that it is also very important to us here in the House. – First observation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second finding: We, all the clubmen, received a letter yesterday from Governor Novotny. In this letter I find a decisive sentence. In this decisive sentence, the Governor of the Central Bank notes: If the European level is to end the cash, then, and I quote the letter that we received yesterday, it is a change in this commitment to keep cash in circulation that is “necessary in the EU Council”. - Quote. EU Council – that is, when the Heads of Government meet. So, to say this quite clearly: A unanimity... [[Abg. Brosz:... fear that no one agrees?]] [[Abg. Krainer: This is a European party that does not even know the rules of the game?]] – I know exactly the rules of Europe! - Yes! [[Abg. Krainer: Obviously not!]] [[Abg. Krainer: No!]] I assume Governor Novotny knows the rules of Europe. [[Abg. Krainer: Yes, I believe so!]] - Good. And he told us yesterday very clearly that in this commitment... [[Call:... Schägerei]] Again: Read Governor Novotny's letter! [[Abg. Krainer: I’ve got it!]] He has clearly informed us here that there is a duty for the national central banks of the participating Member States to put cash in circulation and to keep it in circulation. To amend this commitment would require unanimity in the EU Council. That's what he told us. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But he writes...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] That is, if we have a constitutional objective here, if we have it, I say, then an Austrian member of the federal government violates a constitutional provision, it should be removed from this scheme. I think that's a good idea. [[A cell phone's ringing.]] [[Abg. Krainer: The Mitterlehner calls right now!]] So, then, it's elucidating. [[Further calls.]] You don't need to get so nervous! The SPÖ is against the fact that we could have ended this debate here. I take note of this because, of course, I adhere to coalition agreements. I'm very sorry. I would have found it better if we had made a contribution to calming down, that the Austrians know that we are not just talking about the cash being put out of dispute once and for all from us that we are for the maintenance of the cash. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] They didn't want it. [[Abg. Krainer: No, but we should also write in that water drinks must remain allowed!]] I take note of it. But please also note that I would have found the other solution better. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mahrer said that must go into the human rights convention!]] That's it and that's it. I'll tell you: Money is an issue that will continue to concern us because of this process you wanted, opposition parties will take care of it. [[Call the Greens.]] I wanted to end the discussion, you didn't want it, so we're going to deal with this issue a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32027	Next, Mr. Ing. Vogl to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32071	So I think it can be seen that we are not entirely in agreement on this issue. I believe that this should also be possible in a coalition that takes different positions on certain issues. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Today it has been discussed when the right time is to resolve any reserves that are present. This is, of course, a difficult question, because it is at the moment a question of bringing the Federal Government's assets, which are bound to the budget somewhere. The criticism has come that we use this with a cheap pocket player trick to clean up the budget. I think one has to say quite clearly: From what this Federal Government has delivered in recent years in the sense of budget stability, other federal governments can cut off one piece. Every year – although the forecast figures are much better than what really comes – we can deliver a better budget than forecast. This is really a performance that we can be proud of. That is why we do not use these reserves to stop a budget hole. I think it is a sensible measure to make the money flow to the budget now in this situation. The criticism has also come here that the municipalities and countries also benefit from it. Opposite question: Is that so bad? We all know what responsibility and what tasks our communities, our municipalities and the countries have. If they also have a yield from this resolution of the provision, I wonder if this is really to be criticized and if we should not be glad that we have a financial margin there. [[Abg. Brosz: (in the direction of Abg. Lopatka) If you make calls in here, you pay the penalty!]] We know very well – many of us are in local politics – how close the financial scope has become. Perhaps at the end of the day – as I think otherwise, I think we just have another point of view –: The fact that we have significantly better figures than forecast is also due to the fact that expenditure in the pension area is significantly better than forecast because the reforms that have been launched are effective and because what has been set in motion is correct and we do not need additional reforms, because what has been decided on.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32116	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32137	Madam President. Federal Minister! Maybe before: We will agree to the request for the maintenance of the cash because we are also convinced that cash is an expression of freedom and protection from the comprehensive surveillance state. But what has gone ahead, this political position, Politkabarett brand Lopatka, that must be mentioned again. Klubobmann Lopatka calls for a constitutional provision that the maintenance of the cash is entered in the Constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Mr Rossmann has already explained why this is quite different at European level, because European law is going on in this context. I thought first of the FPÖ application from the Danube City when the FPÖ wanted to demand that the sun shines every day in the Danube City. What you're trying to ask me to do was remind me a little. I also do not wonder why FPÖ wants to continue writing in the Constitution. I was also surprised by the reasoning of you, which was to be read in the standard: as a savior, I believe, or guardian of the rights of freedom. This is so exciting because it is always the EIA that otherwise restricts freedom: Data storage, Accounting, State Protection Act. The grave of the rights of freedom suddenly appears for populist reasons and says he wants to protect the cash and the rights of freedom. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Stroll: This is the bad conscience, I believe!]] - Obviously. [[Interlocutory call from Mr Lopatka and Mr Auer.]] I then briefly wondered if you had changed and wanted to protect the rights of freedom in some way or whether it was populism brand Lopatka. The answer then was very simple, because your Head of Delegation in Brussels said literally: Fasching's over! – Normally, the cornerstones of the state and democracy belong to the constitution, but not every desire for the Christian child. So I'm glad you changed your mind and obviously listen to Othmar Karas or that the coalition partner is at least so reasonable that he doesn't participate in every fun you're planning. If you, Mr Klubobmann, are already such a trueer of freedom, then we see that we are serious about this in the future, that we are not constantly restricting freedom, and not just for a cheap headline – as you like it – to try to act as a trueer of freedom rights. [[Green call for tender]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32203	Mr Klubobmann Lugar came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32235	So the discussion is not so succinct, because we know that the German bank chief has said and predicted that there will be no cash in ten years. We also know for a long time that banks are working very hard to limit cash traffic. Why? - Because cash doesn't bring the banks anything. The cash in the wallets does not bear interest, it does not help the bank, which is why the bank naturally wants a payment transaction that is non-cash. That is also the reason why we have already held this discussion a few times and will also lead in the future. As regards the State: Of course, it is interesting for the state if there is no longer any cash, because then one can increase taxes and the citizen has no opportunity to fight against self-defense. This is precisely the measures that can be taken with cash and which, when cash has been abolished, are no longer possible. That is why I am very glad that we are talking today about whether or not cash should be received. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kogler and NEOS.]] It would not have necessarily needed a motion for a resolution where the government itself committed itself not to abolishing the cash. It would have happened if the government had assured here that it did not intend to do so. But apparently one is not green on the other and the SPÖ's ÖVP is misguided, that perhaps the SPÖ will then come up with some ideas to do that sometime, and that's why you need this request. If there is such a climate in the government, I can't help there. It is crucial that we finally reach an agreement here that the cash is something that also in some way symbolizes freedom – freedom for the citizens, and that we also exclude the state from doing attacks one day, as we have already experienced. Name: In the Cyprus discussion, we have experienced that it has been said that the savers should be taken away 10 percent of their savings. I'm sure such ideas will come back. But if you have the opportunity to hear cash, the state has no access. We all know that the crises that have just been postponed will return. Many citizens are worried if the state will not one day really attack the savings of the citizens. With cash, you have the certainty that you can handle it. This is also an important point. This is also about calming the citizens or the good feeling that the state cannot do everything with one. That's what I meant last time I spoke about emergency defense. Name: Money gives the citizen the opportunity to react against the grievances of the government with emergency measures. That's why cash is so important. It's not about illegal things being done or anything else. I am happy about this discussion, and we will also, for the above reasons, agree that cash must be maintained, as far as possible for all eternity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32282	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Draft federal law amending the Scheidemünzengesetz 1988 and the Bundeshaftungsabschreibungsgesetz, together with the title and receipt in 995 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lopatka, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Arbitrators, colleagues and colleagues on the maintenance of cash. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, have a similar sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 125.) [[Call the Greens.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Draft federal law amending the Federal Act establishing a unit of reduction, including title and entry into 1002 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:11:14]] 18. Point First reading: Request by Members Dieter Brosz, MSc, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Club Financing Act 1985 (1491/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32384	We arrive at the 18th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32413	Madam President. We are at the next item on the agenda, and again we are talking about Mr Lopatka, who is just leaving the hall and about money, perhaps not about cash, but about transfer money that ends up on the accounts of the ÖVP club. It's about having a transfer policy. I'd say that's also brand Lopatka. For the first time during this period, offensive recruitment attempts have taken place as in the Bundesliga, and it has been tried to bring Members of other political groups – Mr Lugar is particularly concerned – to the clubs with promotions. Mr Lopatka did. There were several team of Stronach delegates who left the club and changed to the ÖVP club. What was particularly absurd is that Mr Lopatka has still publicly argued that it is the money that the ÖVP club has of it – not cash, I believe, not black money, but money that is transferred. This is a bit absurd when election results are put on the head so that one tries to remove the money that actually comes from club promotion to those who are legitimated with election results. With the Stronach team, compassion is limited. In the last legislative period it was exactly the opposite. A club was founded there and the Stronach team benefited from it. What we must say, however, is that there was an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. That is, such a change as it was then that one founded a new club in the period, there is now no longer. Then one could obviously also think that one did not want to do so. But it wasn't like that, because the loophole remained open: You can change the club and the money can also be taken away. Our proposal simply provides for the removal of the ‘Lopatka premium’ from the Rules of Procedure and for the fact that, if you take someone in the current legislative period, you can do that, but you should not get money for it – whether you are black money, cash or transferred money. – So leave with the “Lopatka premium” from the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32453	Next, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32475	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few months ago, there was a very intense discussion on this subject. I believe that it must be in all our interest to see in the public the way we would like it to be, namely that we are taken seriously, and there must not be a move to and fro, like on a bazaar. Our position was clear: It may not be that the one club loses money and the other club comes to an additional basket money during the current legislative period. I believe that we should come to a solution, regardless of what everyone thinks, but also of hygiene, for ourselves, but also for the public, for the Austrians, ensuring that this will not happen in the future. We must resolve this under the Rules of Procedure. I'm curious if we come to a common goal. I think this House should have deserved it, because in reality we do not need it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32511	The next item is the statement by the honourable Member on jewellery miners. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32532	Estimated President! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate on a solution in the Rules of Procedure on the question of the change of club or the re-establishment of a club has always been very intense in the past. Without a doubt, she'll be taking us even longer. If we want to have honourable Members, it will always be in the opinion of the individual Member whether he or she will perhaps decide on his own initiative. You have to admit this to the honourable Member. I believe that this democratic power should have our Parliament. [[Abg. Lugar: “Democratic power?” – What is democratic about it?]] Above all, we should also note that the club funding and support for the individual clubs are not a basket or a money for the coffee register of the individual Members, but that the infrastructure is provided to us as Members. And that is the final point of the Members' minds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] If a club has more Members, it will also need appropriate support, because it is about the work we are doing here in Parliament. And at this point I would like to thank all the staff, staff and club staff. It is not a matter of laughing, but it is very serious to do so. These persons are paid, among other things, for an excellent job with this money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Lugar, you can laugh at what you want, that's what we're talking about. [[Abg. Lugar: Which employees do you pay with our money? You can keep it anyway!]] In terms of content, we can discuss whether or not your Members are doing a more fruitful or fruitful work with us, we can discuss it without end, but we should support the support and infrastructure for Members in this House on a permanent basis and we should not fight for any sham hats out of any insulted vanity.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32592	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32614	Madam President. Yes, it is really quite significant that we discuss the political positions of Klubobmann Lopatka at two agenda items in a row. But that's okay. [[Abg. Lightenecker: He was good!]] That's all right! The problem is just: Dieter Brosz took away the picture from me, that of the summer transfer time: Lopatka's looking for him, and he's gonna get a change of heart. That's all right. We are also convinced that this must be possible due to the free mandate. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The question is whether money should go with it – that is the essential point – and whether it is just contrary to the will of the voters. So I can't imagine that a team of Stronach voters wanted four Members to sit in a government party now. At least that's my assessment. That is why the Members of this House should change. I just don't think it's very useful to take the money with you. The question is whether it is necessary if there is so much more work to be done, and if you have to let each Member go with the corresponding money. We already have a different value, a different level, namely for the first ten Members, because of course, for the construction of the infrastructure of a club, a base must be created. Then the question is whether many Members are creating more infrastructure. I can't imagine. It can be. I still believe that on the one hand, the electorate's will should be in the foreground, on the other hand, you can certainly save money. With this change, the taxpayer happens to be on the right side because he has to pay less money. But I'm sure you could save even more money. In any case, I would consider that to be useful. If we do this, Klubobmann Lopatka likes to watch every summer that he picks up players at the transfer market, which, by the way, he gets for free. He already has an advantage, he doesn't even have to pay anything. But then, in addition, by giving him money, I think that's wrong. [[Abg. Arbitrators: If money, then cash!]] I would therefore think that this is a good regulation so that we can stop this carousel, this alternate carousel, which occasionally exists here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32670	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment 1491/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:18:24]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32703	We come to the vote on the request by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, to the Family Committee for Reporting on Amendment 1224/A(E) by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues on the adaptation of family allowances for children abroad to the respective cost of living. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[21:19:44]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-02-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e32732	I am still announcing that the 1530/A(E) to 1583/A(E) applications were submitted at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 9.20 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
