ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e3392	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 115. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 113 and 114. Meeting of 24. February 2016 are in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. Deputies of Kucher, Matznetter, Amon, Haubner, Rasinger, Zakostelsky, Hauser, Jannach, Zanger, Jarmer, Maurer, Mückstein, Walser, Zinggl. [[12:02:01]] Communication concerning termination of club membership
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e3426	I'll tell you that on 1 January. A letter from the ÖVP Parliamentary Club was received on March 20, 2016, after which Member Dr. Marcus Franz is no longer a member of the ÖVP Parliamentary Club. [[Call the SPÖ:Hear, hear!]] [[Oh, call with SPÖ and greens.]] [[12:02:34]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e3464	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e3651	I also say that the 9th report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[12:03:31]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e3672	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the written question 8528/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by the honourable Member. Loacker, colleagues and the Federal Minister for Finance on “Reform Panne – Pension System Unabated on Crash Course” are urgently to be addressed. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 3 p.m. [[12:04:31]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e3698	I also say that Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber requested that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry report on the application 1060/A(E) concerning the prohibition of glyphosate-based plant protection products in Austria be limited to 15. ==References====External links== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of the debate. I would now like to say that Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber requested that the Consumer Protection Committee report on the 1063/A(E) application concerning the ban on glyphosate-containing plant protection products in Austria be limited to 15. ==References====External links== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Finally, I say that Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber has requested that the Health Committee report to the Austria on the 1064/A(E) application concerning the prohibition of glyphosate-containing plant protection products also be subject to a period of up to 15. ==References====External links== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I announce that this meeting will be held in full length by ORF III and will interrupt until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e3755	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. I welcome Mr Schelling and Mr Stöger. [[15:01:17]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on reform pans – pension system unabated on crash rate (8528/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e3794	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 8528/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e4401	I shall be the first speaker to give to honourable Members. Mr Loacker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Speech time: 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e4456	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers at the gallery! [[Federal Minister Stöger removes the panning triangle and the warning vest from the government bank.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, the pension system is scrapped, and that's why I set up the panning triangle for you. If you were as good as in the removal of the panning triangle as you would in the removal of the pension hole, I would now give you 20 minutes of praise, but it won't happen. We have addressed the question to the Minister for Finance and wished him to attend this special meeting, but I am pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs is here too. Mr. Finanzminister, you know that the system is scrapping, and that's why you've got it for 29. In February 2016, a pension reform was announced. I have long bought you that a basic pension reform is really a concern. 20 out of 75 budget billions flow into pensions, 2019 according to your department and according to the Federal Financial Framework Act, it will be 29.7 percent of the budget that flows into pensions. This is the fastest growing budget item when you look at it in the long term. The EU Commission demands measures, the International Monetary Fund demands measures that OECD requires action – it is actually all right. Minister! It was your chance to go into political history now as a real hero of Austrian domestic policy; a minister of courage, who cannot be held back by the court councils of prudence, respect and respect, who cannot be held back by any union chairmen and Bünde-chefs. But the results have shown that this is not the case. You didn't take this opportunity, unfortunately you're bent on all lines. They will be included as another sad member in an eternally long gallery of debtors and clientele servants – that will remain – because what was done at this pension summit was called by journalists as a bad joke or as a pension mole. You're going to tell me you'd done a lot more, but the coalition partner wasn't that far. But I tell you one thing, Minister: No one has expected great reforms from Minister Stöger, the great hopes are on you. Many people, many citizens have great hopes in You put it, the ÖVP itself has put hopes in you, and also we NEOS have often said: Schelling is our best man in the government! You said that we have an expenditure problem, not a revenue problem, you are financially so situated that you don't need politics, you don't have to take into consideration national leaders, on Bünde-chefs, on mayors – and now that! It started with the fact that you had already passed the pension automatic in December. It is all about the banal question whether, if people live longer, they also spend part of this longer life span working and whether this should be done automatically or whether the part of the bazaar should remain in the political day-to-day business. You put that on your own ad acta. I remember exactly, it was on the 10th. On December 1, in Ö1 “Mitagsjournal”, where you said that there was no automatic need for it, there was a need for a mechanism and politics had to have the last word. There's no need for SPÖ to negotiate your own claims, that's what your own party colleagues do. The second task would have been to bring women's retirement age closer to that of men. In this context, the Minister of Social Affairs has also been able to do what is easiest for him: restrict and watch his hands. The job has taken him from Mr Wöginger, who has directed us through the newspapers, that the demand for an early increase in the age of women's retirement should be made ad acta. Our disappointment about it can only be understood if you remember that we have trusted you to force the heads of state into your knees, and then you fall over with such things so easily. The opposite is true of women's retirement age rather than early adjustment: Women who work longer pay half the contributions and receive the full credit on the pension account. So the disparity between women and men is increasing. Women and men working at 61 and 62 years of age differ even more than before. Previously, when women have worked longer, they have paid the same contributions as the men, now they pay half. As you explain this increased inequality, that remains a mystery to me. Such a creative grip on art must come into your mind first. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] I'm already at the pension summit myself. They will then replicate on me and say what the great successes are: that the Commission's size on long-term pension insurance, short KOLAPS, will be reduced, even halved, and that it now has the task of making concrete proposals. But you also know that the KOLAPS have already had the task of making concrete proposals. She never did it. She made sense. And what will change? - Nothing! And what has your coalition partner done so far when any proposals for pension reforms have come? - Nothing! What will change in the future? - Nothing! The extent to which you have been pulled over the table at this pension summit of Stöger and Muhm is enormous. I assume – I trust you intellectually – that you have understood, but I do not know if all 50 who sit in your ranks have understood how much your pants have been pulled out. All the SPÖ wanted is clearly regulated in this paper from the pension summit: Compensation allowance: 1 000 €, when you have worked 30 years – patch, finish, it says. All you might want is some sort of dirty regulation, for example: ‘The Federal Government shall report or explain to the National Council on the proposed implementation steps as to how it will apply equivalent measures to the pension system.’ Great thing you've been negotiating! Compared to this formulation, a gum looks like steel concrete. The reds tricked you, the reds pulled out your pants, and you noticed it too late. The measures you agreed to at the pension summit will at best increase the pension hole. We will drive the carts to the wall at an increased pace, but we will drive it to the wall, and you have made a worthy contribution to it. The main cost drivers in the system have left you all outside, which you have not even discussed. All you have agreed to relates to social security pensions, and the area for which you are responsible as Minister. You have been completely excluded from the field of civil servants' pensions. There is only a small margin note in your pension summit paper: "The Federal Government is committed to promoting the harmonisation of the different pension systems. The aim is to create a uniform pension right based on the Federal Pension Act.’ Again such a gum formulation! [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] I can only congratulate the red on how they managed to get out of there. Why didn't you do anything, Minister? Even Karl Blecha, and he's not God's pension reform engine, said we could do something about harmonizing civil servants' pensions. And this opportunity to ensure more justice, to ensure a common, equal pension right for all Austrians, you have missed this opportunity! Harmonisation of pension systems could be done much faster, but instead you yourself have thrown into the debate, one could make some deterioration in the pension account. I personally felt that this was an insolence, because the pension account concerns exactly the people in Austria who already have the worst of all pension systems, and in which you would have thought further deterioration was possible. But their own clientele, the black officials, they are still protected and they are allowed to live unscathed in their privileges. You even strengthened the difference between the insured persons in the ASVG or in the APG and the officials, which is where the benefits of the pension are concerned. It has already been and is an existing injustice that if someone goes into early retirement due to a long period of insurance, he is allowed to earn only up to the low level and otherwise experience a pension reduction. Officials do not have that which, when they are in retirement, can always earn unlimited dues for it. Your pension plan now says that if you reach the retirement age, you will also experience pension reductions if you exceed a certain income threshold. They have thus further increased the difference between officials and the normal-mortem social insured person. That was a summit of injustice, your pension summit! Sure, the ones sitting there at the table don't concern it, because Werner Muhm with his fat working chamber supplement board doesn't have to earn anything at age to keep his standard of living. That's not what this is about. This concerns the little ones who say: I still work a few hours a week, I use my knowledge, I use my experience to fatten up my modest pension – on average for the pensioner in Austria 1 100 € – a bit! But the ones you're putting up with – and the big fish will let you get away from it. All those sitting at the negotiating table are not affected by these arrangements for small pensioners. You have also left the officials outside again on the principle of rehabilitation before retirement. It has been discussed about the rehabilitation of the insured persons in the ASVG of the Langen and the Breiten, but for officials the rules for retirement due to incapacity for work still apply as ever. On the subject of luxury pensions – which was probably not even the subject of your summit – the Minister of Finance would have a real interest in the Super-pensions, on the one hand, to officials and on the other hand to the outsourced companies of the various bodies under the supervision of your ministry, and to reduce pensions. This would be directly in your interest, and it would be in the interest of the Austrians and the taxpayers as a whole. A few weeks ago, we discussed at this point the structural inequalities that exist when outsourced companies retiring their officials, who still employ them, into retirement and thus overburden staff costs on taxpayers. We discussed this by mail. That too could have been part of your meetings at this pension summit, but it was not. The probability that an official of the former post office and telegraph administration will arrive at a post incapacity pension is 15 times as high as at the A1 Telekom. It is obvious that there is structural corruption. More than 20 findings of the Federal Administrative Court confirm that people are retired against their will. Their ministry would have had much more opportunities to do something in the pension area; it would be cheap to always shoot only the Social Minister at pensions. They could also have made the financial needs visible for future pension obligations. That is where the draft and financial statements regulation comes into my mind. They leave it open to the local authorities whether they want to make provisions for their pension obligations or not. If you had written this mandatoryly, they would have to make clear in their accounts how many pension bombs are still slumbering. The same applies, of course, to pension obligations of the federal government, which are not included in the federal accounts. And then you have another field of activity, and these are the financial compensatory negotiations. You would also be in a position to force the countries to harmonise their civil servants' pension rights more quickly with that of the federal government. There's something else in front of you, this field you can still pay attention to, and there you can make points that you've left at this pension summit dingda. Another causa, which today also hits media waves again, does not only concern the Minister of Social Affairs. The Bank Austria is exactly the same for the Minister of Finance. This is an attempt to give a privileged bank an advantage. It can even order a law – and is already confident that political commitments will be respected, provisions dissolved. And when I look at the fact that the financial market supervision with cannons is shooting on bank patches, I wonder why the financial market supervision has not yet been on the agenda where billions of movements are being carried out without a legal basis. And that would interest me – and that is why I asked for it in the urgent question – how communication between the ministry and the financial market supervision looks and whether steps have already been taken. Today, it has been communicated that Bank Austria is supposed to pay €730 million with the law that you want us to be delighted with. This is about €220 000 per nose for 3 300 employees. Now we assume – bankers earn well – that they will receive a pension of approximately €2500 gross. With the money that flows, you can pay these pensions for exactly six years. And if you now claim that this is a high price for Bank Austria, then I disapprove. This is a high price for taxpayers, the even greater minus in pension insurance. In the event of a breach of the principle of equal treatment for men Unfortunately, you have not observed your commitment to stand up to taxpayers. In this context, it is also interesting to take a look at how different the view of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the view of the Ministry of Finance on the pension system are. This is because there are different numbers again and again. And if, within the framework of the European Semester, the EU Commission makes its comments on the situation in Austria in the country report, it also notices that the figures do not agree, namely those reported by the Ministry of Finance and those reported by the Ministry of Social Affairs. I have a question answer, Minister, from your predecessor, from Rudi Hundstorfer, who wrote: “The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for the budgeting. The € 420 million was calculated by the Ministry of Finance and is also not comprehensible for the Ministry of Social Affairs. This was also reported by the Ministry of Social Affairs to Brussels.” – This was stated in the request response 4339/AB. The EU Commission of the Republic of Austria is likely to have come to the fore that the wrong figures are being played because they have found that the statistically high age of retirement actually does not agree with the savings in euro, which would then have to be visible in the pension system. So we have a higher retirement age, but the savings do not take place because you just got rid of this disability pension trick under 50. In order to achieve budgetary sustainability in the pension system, some other things were needed. You wonder what numbers to rely on if your ministries are not in agreement. We also experienced this in November, when the KOLAPS spoke. And a few days after the Federal Estimate for 2016 was decided, in the Commission on long-term pension insurance, figures should have been decided on the medium to long-term financing needs in the pension system, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance in the COLAPS voted against. They're already wondering: What is it for a federal government? Are they talking to each other? Or how can it be that one ministry represents the opposite of what the other says? It can be seen that two leading resorts obviously do not create a common picture on such a central question, which concerns 20 out of 75 budget billions. This is actually the bankruptcy declaration of an entire government. We know that the Federal Presidential elections are about to take place and that both government parties have ever thrown a candidate out of the Pensionist Clients' race, an ex-Social Minister and an Senior Federal Chief. Of course, it could also be concluded that the failure to achieve this pension summit was due to political consideration for the presidential candidates. Well, you've turned a few small parking screws, but you haven't turned a single parking screw that contributes to the sustainable security of the pension system. You didn't turn a single swivel that gives young people the feeling that they'll get a pension in 20, 30, 40 years. 50 percent of people under 30 do not believe that they will still get a pension out of this system, and you have not contributed to increasing confidence in this system. You need to be measured by your pick-up I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report, for his excellent report and for his excellent report. They haven't made your own statements at all. There once was an ÖVP minister, Heinrich Dremmel, who resigned because he could not implement his goals. And actually, now is the time for Minister of Finance Schelling to say: I cannot implement the goals I have set myself in this Federal Government. I'll throw the hat on it, I'll throw the towel! It's enough! – You have disappointed the young people, you have put the future of the country at risk. You have classified yourself in the Phalanx of the reformists, and you have done a very bad service to this Republic. Invoices remain open, which will have to pay for coming generations in decades.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e4679	To answer the question, Mr President, Mr Schelling spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e4700	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If a specialist in general medicine is talking about heart surgery, you should be careful, so I can tell you: Of course, I have done more than finally come out. It wasn't me, either. ==References====External links== I would just have expected the relevant department to prepare and prepare proposals to this effect. We in the Ministry of Finance have done this and made it available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the topic of pensions is discussed in Austria – even if the subject is only stripped – there are reflective reactions to it. They say it's all too much and far too little, and the others say nothing has to happen, it's all safe. Now, of course, I trust that the international organisations that constantly inform us that we need reform here properly appreciate this need for reform. But because the situation was actually such that it was said that it was not necessary to change something, we have taken the path that we have said: Let us further develop this, based on what happened in 2004! - I'll be right back to that. If someone is only such that the pension system is safe, then of course you can also ask the question you are correcting: At what height are the pensions safe? It is not only the question of whether they are safe, but also at what height they are safe. You know I said from the beginning: We do not discuss the intervention in existing pensions at pensions. A retroactive intervention is not at all possible, but we need to discuss how we keep the system safe in 30 or 40 years' time. That's my job. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And whether you believe it or not: That's not what I'm going to do. We have now taken a first step. This is too small for you, some are already too much, but we will continue to pursue this issue. I would like to draw attention to the tonality of pensions. There is hardly any proposal, it is called “pension harvesting”; if there is another proposal, we are all against it. Now the question is: How do we deal with this issue? I say that pension robbers operate those who do not want to understand that reforms are necessary – and not those who say: We need to further develop the system! There have been six pension reforms in the last 20 years – if I have counted it correctly. I promise we will have six pension reforms over the next 20 years, if you are not willing to think about the system on a sustainable basis and bring about structural changes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The question that arises is not just: How much support does the budget provide?, but the question is: What is the relationship between contributions and what comes out of the budget? That's what fills me with great concern, and I'm staying there. If you suggest to me the resignation and failure, I will tell you: Wait for the end of the day! Every year I'm going to update the subject again and say we have to find a way there. When you look at developments, it is clear that people outside are obviously farther than we are in politics. I recently had an event in Linz with about 400 students. If you ask who believes their pensions are safe, you get relatively little consent. That means it must be the task of politics to do something. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] – You will be happy to speak; this is a very simple process here in Parliament. Because you also believe that we are delivering something to Parliament here, I am also of the opinion that this should be done to Parliament with great respect. Well, it is true that from the Commission's point of view, from the OECD's point of view, we need too many contributions from the Federal Budget for Pensions. We therefore have to take measures to change the step by step, and with the paper now available you can take first steps in the right direction. But I'm just saying: We have completely different views. In my view, the steps are not sufficient, and that is why we will have this issue back. Personally, it would be much better for us to create a pension reform which will bring the topic of pension once and for all from the agenda, so that we do not have to discuss it every few years. I think that's what people outside deserve. I come to the results shortly before I answer the questions. They are now criticising the reform of the Pension Commission. We halve the size of the Commission, occupy it in addition to international experts and oblige the Commission to forward the necessary measures to the Federal Government. The Federal Government must then forward the measures to Parliament. The Federal Government, however, has the possibility of providing Parliament with equivalent alternative measures if it takes a different view. Just as it is now that the Commission either does not agree or does not set any of the five control screws that include so-called automaticism, as already provided for in the law, we are not going to continue. That is why we have jointly decided in the coalition that this is a matter for the Federal Government and that it will also forward it to Parliament accordingly. It is now a need for the Federal Government to act automatically as soon as these proposals are received from the Commission. You've been talking to the officials. We will include official monitoring in the Commission. By the way, I would draw attention to the fact that we have actually implemented a pension reform at the federal level with the result that the contributions go down massively. The various countries have taken different measures, but these are provisions which are not within the current financial compensation, but which have been in place for a long time. There is also a federal state that has decided to do so by 2042. Now I can take this up again, but perhaps you will remember the comment of the competent head of state, which he sent to me with the simple words: That's nothing to the Minister of Finance! I do not think so, and that is why we will clearly update the subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you think there would be further inequality between men and women now, then you should have read the paper, because the bonus variant, if you don't receive a pension, now applies to men and women completely identical from 60 to 63 years or 65 to 68 years. And why is that so? – Because we already have a corridor board up to 68 with the men today, while the women do not. In order to achieve equal treatment, we have adopted this three-year scheme. The postponement bonus remains at 4.2 percent per year plus half the pension contribution payment. You can calculate the effects of an average pension. This is a transitional arrangement because, as you rightly say, one could not agree to raise the age of women's pensions earlier than planned in smaller steps. That's why they said: We are now making a bonus scheme to increase the incentive. We have significantly expanded the pension gap to 7 years per child, up to 14 years, and we have recorded the billing of child rearing periods as pensionable, but not pensionable. A large block in this paper – which is a consequence of the 2014 pension reform – involves the question of how we deal with invalidity and early pensions. That is where we see urgent need for action and therefore the paper is also heavily concerned with it. If you look at the figures relating to the actual retirement age, the most important factor is why we do not come up with the actual retirement age, the area of early and invalidity pensions, which occurs far more often in Austria than in the European section. Therefore, we have adopted a whole package – from early intervention to change in the rehab area to reporting obligations – which will result in the problem, which obviously was not solved in 2014 to the extent expected, now being solved. With regard to the questions you have asked, I still have to hold something - before I answer them briefly: It's a little difficult. Madam President, there are 95 questions, and we have just three hours to deal with all these questions. That's all right! As far as I am concerned, I will now try to answer the questions, but I am forwarding that I believe that we will continue to need discussion in the fundamental questions. I do not think we have reached the end of the flag rod in the long term with these small steps. [[Abg. New builder: You mean the coalition partner!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] – I come to the... – I have not mentioned anyone at all, but I have only said that we will need this discussion, and I am convinced that this Parliament will still very often deal with the question. [[Abg. New builder: You mean the coalition partner?]] [[Abg. Kickl: (voting to Federal Minister Stöger) But he has the cramped posture..., the Federal Minister!]] After all, the NEOS have already started the second action here within a few weeks. Questions 1 to 3: The 2012 estimates were based on the year 2015. The amount of savings has been adjusted due to current data from the pension insurance sector. Question 4: Compared to what you criticise, I declare it a little later – the estimate of €10.68 billion in 2015 – the 20 billion you are always talking about are also payments for active pensions and not subsidies in systems; this must be kept apart, because in the case of one, we are service providers and in the other case, we are the ones who make the grant – so to speak: Compared to the 2015 Federal Estimate of €10.68 billion, a success this year amounted to €10.17 billion. This comparison results in a savings compared to the Federal estimates of € 500 million. – I will come back again to questions 16 to 26. Questions 5 and 8: The report on Austria is a report from the European Commission – not from the Member States and not from a joint report – which will be discussed after publication in various EU bodies, including the Economic Policy Committee or the Economic and Financial Committee, but also in bodies sent by the BMASK. The report serves as a guide for the preparation of the National Reform Programmes as well as the Stability and Convergence Programmes. The official Austrian opinion on the country report takes place in the National Reform Programme and is coordinated by the Federal Chancellery. We do not fully share all the elements of the country report. Of course, the effective retirement age remains crucial for budgetary success. The Commission's focus on the statutory retirement age is a decision that we cannot influence. Questions 6 and 7: The effective retirement age has only increased very slightly due to the pension reform measures in the past – including measures that restrict access to early retirement and invalidity pension. The employment rate of older people and women could also be increased, in particular through targeted active labour market policies for those aged 50+ and through the expansion of childcare. In my view, the Commission sees only limited progress, but it sees progress. At the pension summit, measures were taken to make a longer stay in working life more attractive. This will improve the long-term sustainability of the pension system – that is the recommendation one – and increase the labour market participation of older workers – which is Recommendation two. Questions 9 to 12: The country-specific recommendations are formulated by the European Commission. They are based on the assessment of the experts of the European Commission and provide the framework and objectives for economic policies. The implementation of the recommendations will be monitored in the European Semester. In principle, the principle applies: Comply or explain. Amendments concerning the recommendations of the European Commission must be justified and also supported by a qualified majority among Member States, otherwise the original recommendations of the European Commission shall be deemed adopted. Austria regularly submits amendments and wording requests with regard to the recommendations. These are always coordinated with the coalition partner through the Federal Chancellery. Apart from factual corrections, changes in content to the recommendations are difficult to make. In the previous year we could not gain the necessary support for the Austrian position. With regard to the link between the statutory retirement age and life expectancy and the earlier approximation of the age of women's retirement, there are different positions in the government. Therefore, there was no political agreement on such measures in the context of the pension summit, but also in the preparation of the overview of the Austrian budget in October of the previous year. The Austrian Federal Government is committed to the objectives set out in the Government Convention, including increasing the effective retirement age and increasing the employment rate of older workers and women. Questions 13 to 15: From my point of view, international recommendations, such as those published by the European Commission, are one of several ways of ensuring the long-term Austrian pension system. In order to implement within a coalition, however, the agreement of both partners in the government is also needed. On questions 16 to 26: Now I come back to this point, why these numbers differ. – The question is: Do you put the figures in comparison to the federal estimate or to the result? Success in 2014 amounted to around € 10.4 billion and € 10.17 billion in 2015. If one compares success with success, the payouts in 2015 will be around € 230 million lower than in 2014. There you compare payout with payout, not federal estimate with actual result. In the UG 22 the payouts are made on a monthly basis, i.e. on the basis of a advance. The forecast for 2015 is the Federal Estimate. There is no room for the legislator for different perspectives between the BMF and the BMASK. Compared to the 2015 Federal Estimate at an amount of €10.68 billion, a success of €10.17 billion was actually achieved. This comparison results in a savings of €500 million. This trend should continue over the next few years. In order to ensure long-term security, the short- and medium-term review of developments in the pension system is constantly needed. Finally, the current trend is to continue, at least in the amount of difference in 2015. On questions 27 to 32 – don’t worry, there are only 95 questions –: ==References== In November 2015, the meeting of KOLAPS, the Commission on long-term pension insurance, took place on the approval of the report on the expected conduct between 2015 and 2020. The draft report submitted by the Commission office did not find a majority. The Federal Ministry of Finance rejected the report, since there is no comprehensible representation of the rehageld referees, particularly as regards the retirement age. Moreover, the assumptions on employment and further wage developments from the Federal Ministry of Finance's point of view are too optimistic. – Your question was about why we rejected this; that is the reason. In order to improve the efficiency of the Commission's work, this body is reformed, both in terms of the size of the pension commission and its composition. The number of members is to be reduced. Scientific expertise is to be safeguarded by including members of WIFO, IHS, Pensions Insurance Institute and Official Insurance Institute in the body – without voting rights. In addition, the international perspective will also be included in the future by bringing two international experts into the Pension Commission. It is particularly important that the forecasts or parameters are now to be agreed with the Federal Ministry of Finance. On questions 33 to 42: In June 2015, an expert commission was commissioned to prepare an option paper on how to strengthen the financial sustainability of the Austrian pension system. International comparison of pension systems has also been made. The report should illustrate various approaches to this as a basis for discussion for possible future reforms. This contribution has not yet been made in the Austrian debate on pension provision. The members of the working group are university professors and representatives of the local economic research institutes led by university professor Dr. Gottfried Haber, supplemented by expertise from the Federal Ministry of Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] – We can also discuss whether the people of the IHS or of Agenda Austria who were present, or also Mr. Rürup, who was there, are also disqualified from you as Professor Haber. I would be very, very careful in your place. [[Abg. Rossmann:... no publication!]] Nor do I think, Mr Rossmann, that you are a pension expert, but we are happy to talk about it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] The expert committee was not influenced by the ÖVP. The results of the paper were partially incorporated into the paper, which was then agreed and served as a basis for negotiation. On questions 43 to 45: In recent weeks and months there have been several voting sessions at the technical and political level with different compositions, as the results presented by me at the outset show, very comprehensive discussions on which the areas have already been discussed. On questions 46 to 53: The results of the pension summit must be concrete and legislative at technical level. At this time, the required WFA with the estimates is not available because the legal basis must first be prepared by the BMASK in order to carry out the final estimates. This is a process which is always wanted and which we shall treat in this way. On questions 54 to 65: The Federal Government is committed to promoting the harmonisation of the different pension systems. The adjustment to the pension account will be implemented by the Federal Officials until 2028. I have already mentioned it, there is a federal country, there you can leave time with it until 2042. The aim is to put one on the federal regime – say: General Pension Act – to create based uniform pension right. That is the aim of this Federal Government! And because you have also referred to the federal officials several times, I would like to say: In the field of federal officials, this process must be negotiated within the framework of a new service right. This modernisation of service law is the subject of the government programme and will soon be initiated by the BKA. In the field of countries, the harmonisation of systems should also be negotiated within the framework of this process. At present, it is completely open to what extent the limitation is even regulated in terms of commitment. The parliamentary process in this respect is awaiting. If you track today's media, you will learn that it seems to be that the form you blamed in your question regarding merit and deductions actually does not come. On questions 66 to 73: The Special Pension Restriction Act introduced, among other things, a ceiling for pension and pension benefits under the pension regulations of the Austrian National Bank. Likewise, special pension benefits are now provided for in the Federal Pension Fund's sphere of influence for legal persons. The individual companies are at your disposal – from the Tiergarten Schönbrunn to the ORF. Increased pension contributions in the field of pensions for old politicians, officials, employees of the ÖBB, as well as indirectly by means of increases in contributions and the increase in pension contributions in the field of Austrian National Bank and social security funds, will result in more revenue from the Federal Government. In addition to the federal government, more than 70 institutions are covered by the provisions of the Special Pension Restriction Act. Pension contributions have been introduced or increased for the 9 600 persons, and pension contributions have been increased. For the years 2015 to 2018, a net financing of the federal government amounting to € 5.9 million is expected. On the 31st day of the year. In December 2015, the Federal Ministry of Finance has no data on pension provision requirements for the legal entities concerned. As regards the Austrian National Bank (Oesterreichische Nationalbank) it is possible for data to be available on the 31st day of the year. The annual report of the Oesterreichische National Bank is published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. As a result of the requirements of the Special Pension Restriction Act, the necessary cover capital of the pension reserve has been reduced by € 267 million; according to the Annual Report to 31. ==References== On questions 74 to 81: Retirement of retirement shall be made by the respective service authority. The relevant provisions are Sections 13 to 15c of the Civil Service Law. The respective service authority is thus legally bound. Transfers according to § 14 BDG – Retirement into retirement due to incapacity for work – take place if the staff member is permanently unable to serve. This inability to serve must be determined by a medical or occupational advice. Whether and how many staff are retired in accordance with § 14 is determined by various factors which are not in short term influenced by the service provider. It should also be noted that the decisions of the pension authority responsible for the post are subject to verification by the Federal Administrative Court. The General Pension Act already ensures the harmonisation of the various pension systems – ASVG and parallel laws, federal officials, state teachers – in the future. Pragmatizations are no longer carried out in the field of ÖBB and Post. Questions 82 to 91: The Federal Budget Act 2013 does not provide for provisions for future pension benefits, either for the pensions of federal officials or for benefits to the statutory social security scheme. Nevertheless, these future obligations are apparent in the federal accounts, as an annex to the annual financial statements. There, both the expenses for those pensions to be borne by the Federal Government and the contributions of the Federal Government to the statutory pension insurance companies are indicated. For 2014, the detailed information in Annex 12 to the Federal Accounts, part of the figure, page 440 et seq. Further information on the long-term development of pension expenses also provides the long-term forecast of the Federal Ministry of Finance, which will be presented to Parliament this year together with the Strategy Report. As regards the new estimate and accounting regulation – VRV 2015 – it should be noted that according to § 31 VRV 2015, there is a right to vote for countries and municipalities to make provision for pensions. In any case, however, a long-term presentation of pensions must be given. That's in Appendix 6t VRV. The target of VRV 2015 is according to Art. 16 para. 1 F-VG 1948: harmonization of the estimates and accounts of the local authorities. In view of the fact that the Federal Government does not provide for the provision of pension provisions, it was necessary to proceed as provided for in the VRV 2015; cf. § 32 Federal Budget Act 2013. In the Maastricht account or in the national accounts, VGR, future claims to statutory pension insurance or future pension rights of officials are not booked as deficit-increasing or debt-increasing. For this purpose, according to the new ESA, the currents and stocks of pension systems shall be fully represented in a separate overview table or satellite calculation. The social security systems, as well as the retirement pension systems for officials, are shown exclusively in the overview table. According to Statistics Austria, there will be first information and results on this system for Austria in 2017. However, this does not affect the calculation of the Maastricht deficit or the Maastricht debt, but only serves the additional information. This is a compromise formula, as international comparisons are extremely difficult, especially if in some countries, pension schemes are financed and capitalised in other countries. This is the problem of comparability by statistics. On questions 92 to 95: In accordance with the provisions of the Federal Ministry of Finance, the subject matter of the applicability of § 311 ASVG does not fall within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Finance as currently in force in 1986. It is therefore requested to understand that, in accordance with Article 52 of the Federal Constitutional Act in conjunction with the more detailed provisions of § 91 para. 4 GOG a content response in the form of the requested information cannot take place. However, I take the view that Parliamentary events have already been addressed to the competent member of the government. As regards the tax aspects of the final approach, this will be due at the appropriate time in the relevant tax procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e4912	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First, Mr. Klubobmann comes Dr. It's a matter of pride. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e4939	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! We are negotiating the pension reform or the planned pension reform, the pension reform. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] No, we do not negotiate, we are discussing them here in Parliament. Not much was negotiated at all. Minister! I don't know, do you know a "word-picture-shear"? That's when your daughter sends you a photo via WhatsApp as she lies on the couch and looks far, and underneath it writes: I'm doing practice! – That's a so-called word-image shear. The image does not fit the words. Our Minister of Finance is becoming more and more a "word-taten-shrew". Mr Minister, you speak one thing, but you do the other. They tell things you think are correct, but they do not find any precipitation in your implementations. And that's a kind of tragedy that can't go well for the people in this country. If I summarize your answers to our urgent inquiry, I can say: Okay, as a minister, I see what to do, we also looked at this internationally based – but it doesn't happen. And there's the question: Why isn't it happening? – It is not only the case with pensions, it is so in the education sector, and it is so in many other areas. We have the highest unemployment in Austria for 70 years. Many things are clear, but they don't happen. And they do not happen because in this coalition every claim to design is paralysed. And if then another Federal Presidential election is going on, you can't do anything. In four eyes, the members of the Federal Government are even very emphatically honest, saying: Yes, this is just messing up, the pension reform with the Federal President's election, we can't confuse and frighten the people! And so on and so on. One problem is: The ÖVP sometimes sounds like an opposition party. You, ÖVP and SPÖ, have nothing more to say to each other. The other problem is that the ÖVP within its own party obviously does not only address each other in the field of education, what to do and what to let, and does not come to a green branch, but also in the pension area. The Minister of Finance recognises at least things – and this is good for him – while the majority in the EIA do not recognize what is to be done, and the head is very deep in the sand. And when I think of the representatives of the Economic Union back there, I must be very surprised. Before the last National Council election, you said of the ÖVP: Let us adjust the age of women's pensions, just as the Italians – which we always laugh at because they are so slow – have done within five years. When we start in 2024, we are the last country in Europe to address this need. We're the last country here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl in the direction of the ÖVP delegates.]] At that time, there was a decision of the six gangs in the ÖVP: We're doing this! Then came the National Council election, and Mr Spindelegger said in half a sentence: Yes, we do now!, and then Andreas Khol, a candidate for the highest office in the state today, went over, and then the concern had disappeared. And also in advance of this “pension mausoleum” you have given away all your concerns again. At some point it's called: No, we can do this with automation now, but not harmonisation! But put yourself in the “shoes” of citizens listening today! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Put yourself in the “shoes” of citizens, for example a woman with an average pension of €840 – today on the world women’s day! It is not easy to fight everyday life with 840 €. And this woman must bear that she and her family and colleagues must pay for special pensions up to €30 000, and that fourteen times a year. That's what the people in Austria pay for! Professor Marin expects us to subsidise an average pension on a lifetime of 100 000 € from means of taxation, while subsidizing special pensions on a lifetime of up to 1 million € from means of taxation. And now I'm saying, Social democracy, where are you?, it must “put off the shoes”! The fist has to ball in your pants bag! Where is social democracy in these sourries? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] There is no such thing that we feel 840 € average pension for women as normal, while we subsidise special pensions of 30 000 € from means of taxation. It is also impossible to explain that in Vienna Häupl and Vassilakou, special pension rights will be maintained by 2042! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] The Court of Auditors expects us – Green, please listen! – that costs us 350 million €. [[Further calls for Greens]] We all pay that, dear citizens who watch you! You pay this € 350 million for luxury and special pension rights in Vienna – extended by Häupl and Vassilakou until 2042! For a whole generation, privileges are extended. They find it normal! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This cannot be found normally by someone born in the 1970s, 1980s and later years, who does not understand why he has to pay for it. He has to pay these special pensions, but he himself – the year 1970 up – is expected to get an average pension of € 1,000. And then you say, Everything's good, everything's safe! Not even this 1 000 € pension is safe because you have been building this social system on pump for 53 years! For 53 years! [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] – Everything goes to you, you get a real Grant, I think. For 53 years, you have been building the ÖVP – for 30 years in the government – for 10 500 days and more the ÖVP, which claims and uses itself to be able to expect social systems in Austria to be pumped. Furthermore, there is a special gap in the pension system, where we know that the cost dynamics is currently half a billion extra. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] That is, we are now spending about €20 billion on civil servants' pensions and pension subsidies from the tax pot, and we are adding half a billion each year. [[Abg. Rossmann: Last year it was less!]] You know the relationships: We spend €8 billion on education, for 1.1 million students. We don't even spend €4 billion on 300 000 students from colleges and universities. That is, only the cost dynamics in the pension system, the increase that comes from maintaining your client policy, which I believe is close to structural corruption, costs us half a billion euros per year. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rossmann and Mr Brosz]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] That means, in eight years alone, it's the science budget. These are your priorities 20 billion for this spending block – while we can spend a total of € 75 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] [[New call for tender Switzerland]] What to do? [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] What to do? [[Further call of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Firstly, we need harmonisation, all in one system. The citizens who are watching here today have a right to have a fair system for all. A fair system for all is not a luxury, but luxury pensions for some are not fair. That's what we've got to do! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[New call of the abg. Schwentner.]] This should also be a matter of course for the Greens! [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, eh!]] Secondly, we need a flexible system that develops further and adapts along the developments of societies themselves. This has been achieved by social democrats in many countries, not only the Sweden, but also the Norwegians, and many countries have done so. That's nothing bad, that's the most normal thing in the world if you take design and sustainability seriously. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Of course, we also need to bring women into line with the age of women's pensions. Women lose the best years, we make them old in the labour market. The women receive an average of €500 less pension than the men. But you want to continue cementing it. That's why here's what to do: Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues on the approximation of the age of women's pensions The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, are invited to submit to the National Council, as soon as possible, a legislative initiative providing for an earlier adjustment of the age of women's retirement to that of men, four months a year from 2018." It's not that it's a natural law that you insist on pensions in such a way in a reform blockade. Other countries have succeeded, and I believe that if people's representatives were really acting in the sense of the people, they would know what to do. The Minister of Finance knows that, unfortunately, he does not find a majority in his own party and even not with the Social Democrats. Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5159	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5294	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5315	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On and on, I thought that the topic of pensions had been discussed with the pension summit. The fact is: Today's special meeting with the urgent request of NEOS makes it possible to show again where our pension system stands. And fact is that everyone would have done something different in this pension system, but it's as one-sided as if a pension automatic would be the all-equilibrium to secure pensions is not right. In those countries where a pension automatic system has been introduced, in which policy has shifted responsibility for the task of shaping pensions, one has been watered down. There poverty has increased, and tax reductions and reliefs have been decided on for those who receive low pensions. – Designing pensions is a task of politics and not an automatic matter! The fact is – and you have to show that even if you have different views –: The number of oldage pensions is falling, the number of invalidity pensions is falling, the number of incapacity pensions is falling, and other measures such as the safest pension column, Rehab must be set accordingly. These are very important steps when it comes to increasing or increasing the actual retirement age. And that's all right. I suspect that all those who repeatedly call for the State pension system to be rethinked would be different from that in which there is a certain objective, namely to weaken the objective of State pension systems. This should not now be an attack on private financial service providers with business precautionary models and private utility services. worry models. However, we all in this area know some people who lost up to 50 percent of their occupational pension provision in the course of the financial and economic crisis in 2009, up to 50 percent of their private pension provision. And if anyone doesn't know anyone in this room, I'll invite you, I'll bring you with these people. These people said: Please, secure our state pension system! Develop it further, expand it, but do not weaken it! – That is our goal, and we will do the same. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Stroll.]] You will be surprised, I tell you, the results of this pension summit are all right. You are therefore all right, Mr Strolz, because it helps precisely those women who now have €840, €860 without compensation to pension. It is precisely these women who are helping because, with 30 years of contribution, we will allow them to have a €1,000 in the future. These incentives for longer work are in fact welcomed by all: women aged 60 and over for three years, men aged 65 and over for another three years. This not only increases income, because pension contributions are halved, but it actually increases pension. On the topic Bank Austria: Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, we also have this government proposal in place today. I assume that it will be discussed in a very fair and open manner in the Committee on Thursday, and I would also like to thank the Federal Government for this government proposal. In conclusion: Our pension system is constantly developing, yes, of course, we have done so over the last decades, and so it will continue. A good pension system has now been improved, especially for those who have little. This is the result of this pension summit. And I would like to thank all those involved, including all the politically responsible experts and social partners, who have contributed accordingly. And one thing we must never forget when you say: Can we afford that? Isn't that all on pump? Mr Strolz, Mr Loacker, I really appreciate your number because you are factual on many other issues. But you're not at the pensions. As regards pensions, she takes the path of privatisation and the weakness of the state pension system. And I don't like that, I just don't like it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you're talking about pump and that the pensions need to be automated as far as the height is concerned, please don't forget one: The pensions that our pensioners receive monthly, this money remains in this country! This money will be spent again! This money boosts the economy! The money with returns, with corresponding profits, on the other hand, that gets legs, that leaves our country. I would like your commitment, your strength in supporting a financial transaction tax, in supporting a value added tax or stock exchange tax. This would be a great failure to further develop our system. Finally, because you said – I think Mr Loacker was – 50 percent of the 30-year-olds no longer believe that they will ever receive a pension: I heard that 35 years ago, I heard that 25 years ago, I heard that 15 years ago, and today I hear it again. We'll hear that again and again. Only one, please write to the main book: As long as the SPÖ has government responsibility, pensions are also available to our young people. Look sure! We have proved this over the last decades, and we will continue to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5405	Mr Wöginger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5427	Madam President, Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz, what separates us from ÖVP and NEOS on the pension issue is: We want to further develop our state pension system financed and provide sustainability. But we don't want to put it in jeopardy. And that is what you do with your statements here in this area. That's not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I shall now try to present here some of the points agreed at the pension summit. First of all, and that was extremely important to us in the People's Party: In the case of invalidity pensions and rehabilitation. Why? Because this is a major factor in the fact that the actual age of entry is too low. We have in here intensifications that the social partners themselves have presented, for example in mental diseases or also in occupational rehabilitation, which simply and simply works too little – these are important points – up to the reintegration after long-term illness. We are dealing here with the situation of many people who, for example, have cancers or other serious diseases and are being integrated into the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a social policy measure of the EIA when it comes to people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, and that is actually what sustainability is being put into play with, and that is contained in the paper – that is simply not true, Mr Loacker, when you somehow wipe it away –: We halve the number of members of the Pension Commission. This is a body too bloated. Call me bodies that are halved in times like this! We are doing this at the Pension Commission, and we are filling it up with experts, including from the European level and from abroad. That's the one point. [[Abg. Kickl: Then who was inside so far?]] And the second is: We agree with the obligation that the measures proposed by the Commission in its implementation should be set out accordingly by the Federal Government to the National Council. It will not happen anymore that a minister says yes, that is nice and beautiful what is happening there, but I do not see myself impelled and not forced to do something here if the Commission believes that there is a need for action here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: Where's that? That's not clear!]] Mr Neubauer! Then read this to you exactly! “The Federal Government has to report to the National Council on the proposed implementation steps”, which could be said in parentheses: Government template – “or explain how it will apply equivalent measures to the pension system.” – The Federal Government is hereby obliged to implement proposals and forward them to the National Council, ladies and gentlemen. And then it will be up to us what we are doing with these proposals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call: That means it's back to the Minister]] That is an important point for us. The official monitoring system, ladies and gentlemen, is also being established here. This is the first time that a monitoring for civil servants' pensions is also being introduced together. Now a word on the harmonisation of pension systems. Some have already been here in the National Council, I was a young Member: Under Wolfgang Schüssel we have harmonised the official pension system, starting with the harmonisation which is currently in progress and is completed by 2028. I hold this against all those who now go and want to re-trace the horse from behind again and again. Yes, as the Minister has explained, it is possible to talk about how to shape the system at the time of service negotiations, but harmonisation is running, and it is completed in 2028. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And what about the provisions of rest?]] What is not complete is the harmonisation of official pensions in a federal state in this Republic, namely in Vienna. And that's what we're yelling at here. The Court of Auditors has found that €350 million in additional costs. I call on the red-green government in Vienna to comply with what all the other federal states have already implemented, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Strolz! I do not know what you have done when you criticised the increased compensation allowance of € 1,000 for single people here. These are exactly those people who have long contribution periods – 30 years of contributions – who have paid long and unfortunately had the wrong to catch up with a job in which little money is paid, which is why their pensions are even below the compensatory allowance rate. Therefore, from my point of view, it is also a performance-oriented measure if we take something under the arms of those people and say that you get at least a thousand more because you have long contribution times because you have spent a long time in the system. Performance must pay off, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have taken two measures that I am already proud of, and I thank all those who have contributed. One thing is that we are expanding the possibility of voluntary pension division, especially for women who are dedicated to childcare, up to seven years per child with a total upper limit of up to 14 years. I am really glad that we are doing this with these measures in the pension area. And that. Second, women born in 1955 are now treated the same as in the General Pension Act since 2005, namely: Those who do not have to bring together 15 years of contributions, seven years of working time, can now fill in eight years of child rearing. I am proud of this because this is a family policy measure that helps many women who have devoted themselves to childcare. This is an important principle for us in the EIA. And this is an attitude of appreciation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now a short while to the incentive system for longer work. We from the EIA have proposed this incentive system, and we have put it into practice together in the paper. We say that if someone leaves the pension, over 60 years with the woman, over 65 years with the husband, and is willing to work on for three years, then this person should receive a significantly higher pension. For example, there are calculations that you should get up to €2,600 instead of €2 000. This is a significant increase in the pension, because the deferral bonus takes effect and the pension contributions are halved, thus saving both service providers and employees costs and expenses. This is an incentive system that is important to make longer work attractive for people in this country. It is also a word on the limit of merit, on the rules of rest. Unfortunately, we have not been able to agree until the end, it was not our demand, but I am glad and grateful that today Vice Chancellor Mittekanzler Mitterlehner and Chancellor Faymann have jointly determined that there must be no deterioration in working beyond the statutory retirement age. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we make this clarification: Yes to the bonus, but no to a deterioration. A word about the rules of retirement for officials, because some people now feel like having to give great speeches here. In 1997, membership limits and retirement provisions were introduced for officials. These were abolished by the Constitutional Court in 2005. That is to say, it is only possible to adopt a Constitutional rule with a majority of constitutions if there is to be a re-establishment of public service pension provisions. This is only to clarify the fact that the professional groups are not being played out against each other, because this does not bring us further into the pension system, ladies and gentlemen. The measures that are proposed can be implemented with good conscience, but they will also ensure sustainability in the future system.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5557	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5579	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you have now taken good care of it, it was a lot of illustrious to hear about the state of the Austrian pension system. Mr Wöginger has explained to us how this happened in the past in the Pension Reform Commission, by saying that this body has now been halved, and then it has been filled with experts. – Now I leave everyone to the conclusion who has been inside this Pension Reform Commission before. - That's the part. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Second: Mr Muchich has put a lot of evidence into the matter, and I personally believe that he is still expressing something similar to a social conscience of the SPÖ. I think this is very commendable. But probably this attitude is also the reason that he was not allowed to be involved in the negotiations that his own party locked him out during these negotiations. “Dreaming in front of the door” is not only the title of a play by Wolfgang Borchert, but it was also the condition in which the MP Muchitsch found himself during these negotiations. So much for the social conscience of social democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of him, Mr Muhm has been present in all these negotiations as a top-down bonus and in pension claims. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at all this government policy – what does government policy mean?In this way, it is not possible to mention it – if you look at this whole of the environment, which you are trying to represent as a government policy, it is not possible to do so. Look, then, I think there are two components. Everyone will agree with me that the open eye is on these things, that the government's policy is determined by these two components. One component, that's the chaos. Chaos is known to be the opposite of order. We are currently experiencing this chaos every day in connection with the so-called international migration, one purple tree after another that is made there. That's chaos pure, ladies and gentlemen. You can only be surprised that a government is able to change positions faster than some of the underwear. But that is the state in this Republic, and this is not a turning policy, ladies and gentlemen, but a turning point policy that is to be sold here to the Austrians. That's the Chaos department. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There, where the chaos does not come to the train, there is something else, there is paralysis, ladies and gentlemen. And the paralysis is known to be the opposite of dynamics, of effort and of reform zeal. And when I'm talking about paralysis, I'm in the middle of the pension system, and I'm going to explain to you why. If you talk about the pension system and its security, it is about two components to be taken into account. You don't have to be a heart specialist, as you are one, Mr. Finanzminister. The one component is financing, and the second component to which it is at least as much, is justice, the factor of justice in a pension system. Both should have been started at this pension summit, so to speak. It's been blown up, it's been a year's lead, a XXXL summit was supposed to be. In fact, it was the usual flicking work that came out, as with all those summits that existed in the past. One flop after another: the labour market summit one flop, the pension summit a flop. It is no longer surprising that the EU summit is also a flop. It may be up to those who act. I'd think about it once if that could be the reason that all these things were flying. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So you have a pension summit, and at the pension summit you have really created some pieces of art. No word at this pension summit, ladies and gentlemen, no word on the red-black luxury pensions, no single word. In this case, amounts are buried in the multidigit millions range. No word, not one! And there you have to clean up with a legend in this country: The luxury pensions have not been removed in 2014, but the luxury pensions have got a new garment. They've been reorganized, they've been put on a new track. The luxury pensions have been extended, with a built-in automatic lift. These luxury pensions are available, that's the one component – not a word about it. No word about the old pensions that exist in this area, no word about the luxury pensions in the National Bank, no word about the luxury supplementary pensions in Austria advertising, no word about the luxury pensions at the ÖBB. And so on and so on, you can clear that through any outsourced society. It's all a huge blind spot that you don't even look closer at. And something else: no word in the context of the harmonisation of the pension system. The Court of Auditors has made a beautiful statement to this effect. It's called a harmonizing gap. It has identified some harmonizing gaps and has also established them in terms of numbers. The state officials in Vienna – which has already been mentioned today – will be treated on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, as the ASVG-pensionists do. 300 million € is easy to lie here. There is a harmonisation gap in the social security sector. What taxpayers must pay to maintain these unwarranted privileges: 786 million €, as the Court of Auditors told us. In the case of the ÖBB: 920 million. The 50 million are no longer in the weight of the Austrian National Bank, with which I have heard, there are now premiums paid for doing its work. I first thought it was about the National Bank of Greece, no, no, it's the Austrian, where you get a special bonus for doing your job. These things exist, are known, but all this is not treated by the competent. No word of this, ladies and gentlemen. And these are the “deeds” of the presidential candidate dog-tore. This is the patron of the luxury pensioners! That's the way it is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He's probably one of these even in Bälden. And of course it also protects the luxury pensioners Khol, who with an estimated net income of €6 100 per month then swadrons over the sufferings of the ASVG-pensionists and calls any absurd figures related to minimum wages. He is thus the patron saint of the luxury pensioners and he is also the patron saint of civil servants' privileges in Vienna. It will probably only be a coincidence that he comes out of this stable himself and has therefore not shown any reform efforts, ladies and gentlemen. Anyway, you should think carefully about whether this is the right man to send to the Hofburg. From our point of view, it is not, not least because it has failed in this area of pension problems. Ladies and gentlemen, finally again the two components: chaos and paralysis. That is nothing to reform a pension system, that is nothing to do with a country, but both would be necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5709	Reported as follows: Ms. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5730	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Back to the applicant, back to the NEOS who have convened this special meeting today to discuss pensions. I have to express a little disappointment at the beginning. I listened to Mr Loacker for the first 20 minutes and asked myself until the last minute: When is what the NEOS want? That didn't happen for 20 minutes. I waited seven and a half minutes for Mr Strolz to come up with the first proposals. These were essentially harmonisation, an automatic pension system, the increase in the age of women's pensions. I must honestly say that a little more creativity or a little more serious discussion of the requirements would have been necessary to convene a special meeting today. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] I also miss a little respect for the promise that this group originally made in this House, namely to say something positive. But that's just on the verge. I believe that we must have social policy debates in all seriousness, but under other conditions, under other omens. It is not only about budget data, it is not just about budget developments, it is not about details of a social security debate, but it is primarily about giving security to people in Austria and, above all, giving security to young people in Austria, when it comes to questions such as: What can I rely on in certain phases of life? What can I rely on when it comes to my training? What can I rely on when I enter the family foundation phase? What can I rely on when a family member becomes in need of care? And what can I rely on at age? This is the core of a social policy debate that we must have under conditions other than 20 years ago. People's lives have changed completely. Young people are required much higher mobility, much more biographical breaks, unemployment, divorce, patchwork constellations, uncertainty – depending on the postal code – in terms of the conditions regarding family care, and also a constant uncertainty with words such as “shrottreif” and “drive to the wall” regarding the pension system. There would be a serious and genuine care in the debate on the need for reform. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] I am also opposed and we are opposed to certain groups being played against each other, such as young against old. I don't think it will calm or support a young person in some way if you say that you still take away something at average pensions or middle pensions. I think there is no one here in the hall who dares to say that the average pensions in Austria are too high. Even the Minister of Finance has managed to do this, we are here at the lower limit – that's just fact. When we talk about 50 percent of all pension payments are below €950 per month, the average pension for women is €858 and we still have a very high number of women – 377,000 women – who do not have an independent pension claim – and every fourth single pensioner lives at risk of poverty! – that’s the kind of challenges you have to face. The simple approach: Now we're taking the tax allowance out of the system and we're not living on pump anymore!, that's no answer to the lives of these people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The play against each other is not only such a thing as young against old, but rather quite classic – from the liberals – also one of the people who are born here, against those who are not born here. I think that doesn't lead us any further in a serious pension discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you are seriously discussing a difference between the poor and the rich and different situations of people in Austria, if you look at the distribution of wealth, you have to answer a question with all seriousness with Yes, namely the question of where the big differences actually come from: Is this what people in Austria can work out – or is it what they inherit or get on with wealth? And I'm surprised that NEOS don't think enough alone on this question or also act to actually address the question of great wealth and inheritance tax. This is a question of the great injustices. Between young and old! It would be a long time to deal with this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have always tried to point out, on the one hand, not broken but also to the need for reform. And of course they're given, that's not a question at all. I believe that harmonizing the different systems must be implemented as soon as possible. With our model this is also possible with the year 2024. I would also like to break a lance for women in this phase of life, who now also need safety by 2024. We want them to be able to retire flexibly, that they don't have to if they don't want to. But if you want to keep them in working life so to speak, then you ignore one of the worst labour market situations in the Second Republic, and you also ignore a very large number of women who are waiting for the pension out of household work, out of social assistance or de facto without any support. And that's a lot of women. You totally ignore that. This is a very difficult situation for you to continue to impose on the labour market de facto. And that's not fair, I think. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The injustices that women have simply experienced in recent decades in Austria due to the social structures that continue to be carried on in the pension system. And it would be time, today, on the International Women's Day, to do something exactly for these women. We have proposed a minimum statutory wage. That's exactly an incredible support for those women who are currently working in jobs where they don't get 8 € for the hour. This is just a question of fairness, a legal minimum wage exactly for this group. As far as the objective of preventing poverty of old is concerned, of course some things have now been thought of in the pension reform at least once. But if you say that the increase in the compensatory allowance to € 1,000 is such a big milestone for women: I mean, did you say how many that really concerns? – 377,000 do not have an independent pension claim, and a quarter of all women aged are at risk of poverty or poverty. This increase with the requirement to have worked for 30 years and still to live alone meets once – I don't know – 18 000 women, 20,000 women. Well, it's good for that, but it doesn't support that large number of women who need much more support than such a little sugar. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5842	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Lugar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5863	High house! We now have the x-te pension discussion, and one may wonder why there are so different points of view. On the one hand, there is the ÖVP, which has long been discerning the need for reform and recommending reforms, which also repeatedly quotes the experts who say there are problems here. We have also been conducting a study at the moment, and this study, like so many others, comes to the conclusion that there are huge problems. And the study author says that if nothing happens, we all have to get out with much less pension. And then there are on the other hand, that is, on the side of the SPÖ, very many – or practically all – who are totally relaxed and lean back on every discussion about financialability and say everything is good, everything will be good and we need nothing to do. And there's the question – and they're probably going to ask many out there: How could that be? How can there be such different viewpoints? How can one expect problems, and the other seem to be unthinkable? Now it's not like that. The SPÖ only assumes other conditions. And you have to know: The SPÖ assumes that we can fill up the deficit we have with refugees with immigrants – that is, if we bring only enough people into the country if we bring only enough contributors into the country, then we can get the pension system without major reforms. In principle, this would also be calculated if we succeeded in bringing top qualified forces into the country, which would also pay taxes accordingly. Just, that doesn't work, and we've seen that. And there is also the reaction of the SPÖ, when this refugee crisis has not finally begun – for it has practically been the case for decades that people are coming to the country – but when it has suddenly taken on an extent that has already been relatively worrying for the SPÖ. There you have seen what spirit child is the SPÖ and why you have resisted this flow of refugees with your hands and feet, while you have originally assumed ideologically that these people will ultimately receive our pension system. And if you look at the swivel now, then you could be happy and say that now it finally also understood the SPÖ that this does not work, because 80 percent of refugees do not have a successful education and will ultimately be more strained on the system than that they make it unique. Only the swivel that has now taken place is due only one thing, namely the Federal President's election. And hardly will the Federal Presidential election be over – remember my words! – the game will start from the beginning again because the SPÖ believes that it can save the pension system with immigration. To see that this doesn't work, you only need to ask Mr. Head of the AMS once. This says that most likely 90 percent of immigrants will still be unemployed in ten years. How do you want to receive the pension system with contributors who don't pay any contributions? How's that going? That's the problem. This is the mistake of thinking in your approach, dear SPÖ: They bring people into the country without seeing who's coming. And I am not yet talking about the religious problems, about the cultural problems, I am just saying that the people who come here – and they are now more than 100,000 – are simply not needed here. We have no way of integrating them into the labour market. And they won't pay taxes either, quite the contrary. And they won't pay mine or your pension at some point, but they're going to fall to the system. That's the problem. The problem is that you refuse a reform of the pension system because you think you can solve the problem with immigration. But it doesn't work. If you look into other countries, you can see that it didn't work there either. Dear SPÖ! It would have failed if you would finally do what is necessary, namely at the ÖBB, where you have great influence not to push people into early retirement. Then: The problem we have is not the retirement age of 65 – this would be calculated – the problem is that by Their policy is the average age of 59 and the ÖBB is even 52 and the post office is 53. That's the problem. And that's why: Stop making client policy about the pension system, let your clients go into retirement in the hope that they will then choose you again! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] If you stop weakening the families, because if we manage to make a proper family policy – and you are very much opposed to it – then we do not need this immigration at all! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] In other words, we have enough children who will receive our system, which can eventually be well trained if you finally get the school system under control. Then we do not need immigration of people who ultimately only remain in the social system and ultimately only make problems. That's why: Let's strengthen the family! Let's not push anyone in early retirement, who doesn't want to! There are enough officials who want to work far after 65. That's good, we should support that. And stop making politics on the back of the families, and then open the doors for immigrants that we can't eventually integrate and that are only on our pocket at the end of the day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5944	Next, Mrs Gamon is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e5966	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a quote from Gloria Steinem, who is personally my favorite feminist – if you have favorite feminists. [[Abg. Lugar: The “Love Feminist ”?]] Gloria Steinem is a great feminist of the second wave of feminism, and she once said: “The trust will set you free, but first it will piss you off”. [[Abg. Lugar: That was flawless French!]] That's what it's all about. If you look at the truth about women in retirement, about women who are being forced into poverty, we already have to admit that this is, after all, a kind of equality or equality that should really make us angry. The average pension for women is €860 – this is just the compensation allowance, that is, what we call a minimum pension. Women lack an average of 30 months of insurance against men. Women lack five years of employment compared to men due to the low retirement age – which means five years less training, five years less good working years and five less careers. The risk for women to land in poverty is 5 percentage points higher than for men. There is the gap, the difference far greater than in other EU countries. But does that really make us angry? – Obviously not, because I do not feel that we all agree here that women are the absolute losers in the pension debate, that women are also the absolute losers on the labour market, which, among other things, also means that they have such a low pension. But let's talk about the truth about women in the labour market: There are more members of the board in ATX companies called first-named Peter, Franz or Wolfgang than there are women in ATX boards. Gender Pay Gap is 23 percent, the second worst balance sheet in Europe. Why is that so? Why is even the explainable part of the Gender Pay Gaps so high in Austria? - Because we have the second highest part-time ratio. Because men working on average spend nine hours per week on unpaid budget management and care, but women working 26 hours, almost four hours a day. Women have much more frequent job breaks than men, which naturally leads to interruptions in their careers, in their careers. These are really breaks that you can fix badly later. And what are we doing? – We are selling a few individual measures in the pension package, but we are all serious about success in women’s policy, such as the new pension split: Super, that's been extended – the problem is only, it's still voluntary and it almost no one used before. And what are we doing here? – We are talking about it, especially Mr Wöginger, about how this will enable women to take care of child care obligations. Why don't we encourage women to get back into the job? Why don't we promote them so that they can earn more? Why don't we promote them so that they can even work full - time? Then we come to the next point, the women's retirement age, which has still not been raised. The bonus to compensate for this is simply not enough, because the problem does not arise because we do not create enough incentives afterwards, but that the retirement age is just lower and therefore it also cements this situation and makes it even more difficult for women at this age on the labour market. And that we have a higher minimum pension, a higher compensation allowance for single people who have 30 years of insurance, that is, as we heard from the club woman Glawischnig earlier, an alibiktion. This can only be used by extremely few people, it does nothing at all, and it is again a cashier of what we have failed in recent decades, namely to take real measures, so that women also earn more and then have a higher pension later on. And why don't we deal with this issue? Those who claim that women are winners of this pension reform lie in the face of themselves. And whoever claims that women in Austria have the same opportunities in life, lies in the face. Every further year, in which we refuse to make more than 50 percent of our population an invaluable resource for this society, for this economy, to give them the opportunity to live their lives the way they want, every further year in which we refuse to do so, is a lost year. By the way, Gloria Steinem also said: “A feminist is any who recognizes the quality and full humanity of women and men.” I hope that many women and men in this House will call themselves feminists, so that in the next few decades we can finally face up to these mistakes, these failures of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6025	Next is Mrs Mag. Worm reported in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6047	Ladies and gentlemen! "Bread and roses", that was the martial call, that was the parole at the beginning of the 19th century. In the 19th century, 1911, when women, as textile workers in the struggle, went into strike for fairer pay, for better living conditions. [[Abg. Lugar: 19. - Century? ==References== 19th century!]] "Bread and roses" was the parole. And you've reached it: They have received 25 percent more wages, they have got better living conditions. We may now say more modernly what we are fighting for: I want fair payment and time to live! – That's what we want, of course. And if Johanna Dohnal, and I also bow to her once again on the International Women's Day, in 1992 there was a constitutional provision that the age of women's pensions will be aligned with that of men from 2024 to 2033, then she assumed from the optimistic forecast that from 2024 at the latest, we will have removed and eliminate all injustices that exist between the sexes, between women and men, by 2033 at the latest. Unfortunately, this is not the case yet. The question of pay differences between women and men has already been raised here, the so-called Gender Pay Gap. This one's way too high, we know. [[Abg. Street:...! That's not how it gets better!]] On the other hand, as far as half-half is concerned, it has already been said in 1996, then proclaimed by Helga Konrad: Half-half also in the family, half-half in care, half-half in housework. [[Interlocutory calls by Members Schönegger, Loacker and Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Call to the FPÖ: That's a Sunday talk! Unbelievable!]] – Far and wide there is nothing to see from it! Here, there is a need for a follow-up in the families, for the gentlemen who should help accordingly. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Two thirds of the unpaid work is done by women, and there is also a need to achieve compensation. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking today about the increase in the retirement age between 2024 and 2032, I will tell you and we can say about the SPÖ: We moved into the election campaign in 2013 and have said that women have promised that the statutory retirement age will not be increased with the Social Democrats. – Promise, kept, ladies and gentlemen, dear women! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If there is now an opportunity for 60-year-olds to work longer, with incentive systems, then this is an important measure for all those who still have a job at the age of 60, a job that still has the opportunity to work. The fact is that two thirds of women go out of unemployment into retirement, and that is the shame! [[Abg. Kickl: You have promised that no pension contributions will be deducted at all!]] [[Abg. - Thank you, dog torfer!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about wage levels, it is essential to also talk about the fact that there has to be a re-evaluation of the work, that it is a re-evaluation of the work, that it must be natural that work on people, for example the care, is also highly rated and not only the work of the engineer or the diploma engineer in construction and so on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] We have also made sure that there is minimum income: 1 000 € minimum wage, 1 400 € minimum wage, the ÖGB now partially demands 1 700 € minimum wage. We also take measures to ensure that care and care work is reflected in various collective contract collective bargaining. Of course we have a lot to do, but, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this political agreement on pension reform has been successful for women. [[Abg. Höbart: What?]] In this sense, dear women, dear gentlemen: It's a day for women. Come on, all your life! Bread and roses and a good day of women!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6199	Next come Mrs. Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6220	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, our pension system needs to be made future fit. We have already heard, the retirement period and the working time are strikingly apart. Under the usual difficult conditions, a result was achieved at the pension summit, which goes in the right direction. Nevertheless, we still have a long, rocky path ahead of us, because without longer employment we will certainly not achieve the goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to clear up with a myth that the evil entrepreneurs want to release the older employees. I just wonder how stupid you think some entrepreneurs think that qualified employees are being set free! We are not enemies of our entrepreneurial success. This may be something different for a state grant firm like the ÖBB. It is difficult, of course, to integrate a person with low qualifications, with a poor mental and physical condition, who actually has no desire to go to work, into the first labour market. That is why I am glad that rehabilitation and reintegration have been given a central role in this reform paper in order to increase the actual retirement age. I also welcome the inclusion of our social partners in the Bad Ischler Dialogue. Early intervention is a useful model, namely that after 28 days of illness, it is checked whether rehab or reintegration is taking place in the profession. Special measures will also be provided for the mentally ill. In Upper Austria, we have 15 700 diseases per year because of mental problems, which are 600,000 sick people. Yesterday, the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” showed with their report on the model process at the Welser Arbeits- und Sozialgericht that you also have to look closely at these diseases. Mr Wöginger has already tailored the positive, namely the 4.2-percent bonus model with the halving of the pension insurance contribution. This is an incentive for the employer to keep employees in employment. And because Mr Strolz, I think, has spoken to Sweden or other countries: I do not want to have the Swedish service provider contribution of 27 percent and increased termination protection for my company. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad that the second model is no longer under discussion, because this would bring many injustices to small businesses. They do not have the choice to distinguish between income and pension, because many must continue to work if they still have obligations, such as old settlements or loans. That would therefore have been a great injustice. Mr Sozialminister, you have taken over a lot of construction sites from your predecessor, such as pensions and the labour market, but also the labour inspectorates, who are no longer contemporary, where entrepreneurs are not only regarded as models of employment, but as images of enemies. But you have a chance for courageous reforms. You have the chance to relieve businesses and attract the business location, which your predecessor unfortunately failed to do, because the economy is part of the solution to your problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6269	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6290	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the bench! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a particularly interesting discussion on pensions that we have here today. The first person to make himself here is the Minister of Finance, who says so about, he actually knows that what has been decided here really does not do anything, but we do it. Then there is the spokesperson of the SPÖ, who is producing here and criticizing his own Minister of Labour, namely that there is still no equality between women and men – that is, quite interesting. I say something to you, ladies and gentlemen: Our pension system is not so bad. It is well placed on and on in itself, but – and now the big But – we still have no harmonisation. It is not visible here that an official with 58 is allowed to earn as much as he wants, while an ASVG-pensionist has to return with 65 and more than half. These are the injustices, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] In addition, there are measures here that endanger the pension system. I come back again to the case of Bank Austria. Mr. Stöger, it's nice that you're here today. That is why I have now looked at exactly what you have presented here. Mr Federal Minister, you know exactly what you are presenting here: They bring in their own sub-paragraph. In doing so, you know that this will be lifted by the Constitutional Court, you know! A retroactive law – which the constitutional judges have already addressed to you yesterday via media – cannot keep such a law! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] That means you're consciously buying it. Obviously, the intervention has come from the Vienna Town Hall, perhaps even the Constitutional Service of the city of Vienna has written it, so that this law is formulated in such a vague way that it is also repealed and so that the city of Vienna is also discharged here and the liability is lost. That's the reason. Your predecessor – and I'm already taking you a little bit in the boat now, because you've been in the Social Ministry since mid-January, that is, almost two months. You had a long time to do something. And it is clear that both the Ministry of Social Affairs and all the social partners have been informed much longer than we were, have known for a long time that this transfer is to come and that, here, the contributors, the pension insurance institution, are to be charged with a fee, namely € 800 million, if these bank-austria-pensionists are to be transferred. On the one hand, the whole costs the contributor from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler, while the Bank-Austria staff also have to face disadvantages – they now have a massive net loss in income – and the only so to speak winner in this Republic is the city of Vienna. A slug who thinks evil. There is, of course, something to be explained at last. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stöger, do you really think that this law can now be pushed through in two days' time in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs?- Oh, my God! In a Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. [[Abg. Kickl: Scandal!]] If it had been serious to you, you would have brought us this law for a long time, not only now, today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You obviously believe that you can whip this through. I do not know how the Greens stand to see if they are willing to help you to do so by the majority, as they always like to do, but with us this will not happen. We ask – and I ask you to do so too – that a special meeting of the Committee be convened at last, an extra date for this issue. By the way, we have been calling for this since the middle of January, because at last we want to discuss it, and we want to have all the facts on the table. [[Abg. Musical: 10. March!]] Yes, 10th. We already have 23 other items on the agenda, as I have mentioned. Again: We can't handle that in 10 minutes! That takes time, and we want all the facts. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] This is about 800 million, for which taxpayers have to stand straight. We can't handle that in 10 minutes, that's unscrupulous! These are the problems of our pension system, these are the facts that make our pension system dangerous, in combination with the luxury pensions that still exist, for example in the National Bank. I can still remember how your predecessor stood behind this and said: Why are you so upset? We cannot intervene in existing contracts. – By the way, you can read all of this in the stenographic protocols. Here, in the case of small bankers, it can be intervened, as it is not at all a problem to intervene, but the luxury pensions he has cemented, that he has also changed the taxpayer. This has been the Social Minister Hundstorfer, who now stands and wants to become the first man in the state. That's unworthy of what he left here! The taxpayers pay a fee and let their own comrades, as it were, continue to simmer in this red sud with all the luxury pensions here! This is the problem that exists here, and these are the problems that we are creating ourselves and which you, with your approval of the ÖVP, which is the result of which the majority, are still adding. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker]] If you agree with this law here in the knowledge that it will be repealed anyway, then you will be excused. This is very close to an official abuse, Mr Stöger, which cannot work! That is why I say to you: We shouldn't blame the pension system. It certainly needs a turning on swivel screws, it finally needs to get started off the luxury pensions, Minister Stöger, which is also an order to you. But it also needs justice and not such Ho-ruck actions, in which we transfer people to a state system and tax the taxpayer. The question remains open, and this must also be asked: Who are the next to be brought over? Will the people of Vienna be able to bring energy to it? Are the high magistrates who are too expensive for the city of Vienna also transferred to the ASVG at the expense of taxpayers? That's where we're going to be very careful. In any case, this law does not prevent it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6385	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6407	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! What is now obviously the NEOS with the FPÖ is the great excitement and the inability to make solutions. [[Abg. Kickl: You can call some imagination numbers! Unconditional minimum security!]] Because there was a lot of excitement in the previous debate. On this International Women's Day, it was also a lot about women's pensions, but I have heard a few proposals for solutions. It's the second time we've been talking about pensions at NEOS' suggestion. We are very happy to do this, we like to work on a sustainable pension system, but we would also like to talk about solutions. I'd also ask that we get out of the workshop and the whole car... [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – I listened to you, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, and perhaps you would like to listen briefly now. After all, we can continue to debate the history of the Bank-Austria in committee. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I listened to you anyway!]] - Yeah, I'm asking for it. I would like to get out of the car workshop, I wanted to repeat that once again, because now we already have the crash test and the scrap cars, and I don't know what you're doing in pictures. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We are talking about pensions!]] As we get out of this, however, you did not fully explain this to us. I also wonder: Where has your optimism remained? The optimism that I would like to identify very well – and at least in this we agree with the FPÖ – is: Our current system is not that bad, but it belongs much better. What I miss in this debate and also in the way in which the pension summit, which has become a hill maximum, has happened, is that relevant people from politics and also all other parties were outside. This was negotiated between ÖVP and SPÖ, all the others were outside. The issue is not less than that of all Austrians, of all people in this country, of the future of young people and their pensions. In that respect it would have been kind of good, since everyone would have to be involved. That's the first one. The second thing I would like to mention on this women's day – and only a few have pointed this out, Mrs Worm von der SPÖ: Let us talk about how women really do, ladies and gentlemen from NEOS! Let’s talk about how many of the women in Austria in the middle income sector get in the pension by €860, which is even under the compensation allowance rate, which is usually called “minimum pension”. Every fourth single woman is at risk of poverty at the pension! Every fourth single woman! On this women's day, I would like to dedicate my speech to those women who manage to survive with €870 each month, who are hot with it, but who hardly have the opportunity to meet girlfriends, go to the coffee shop, who are unable to order a repair if something is broken in their apartment that can take a little part in social life – how should this go with €870? – and bring them together permanently. We need to think about these women. And we must avoid that people in the future – and you NEOS are going a little in this direction with your proposals, which you know so little – have to come out with so little money. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Stroll.]] [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] Then take part in the discussion! If you want to prevent people from falling back and getting out with so little money, then don't talk about the Swedish model! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The Swedish model spirited around you, without anyone obviously knowing what that is. As of 2018, it will be shown that it does not prevent people of age from living under the threat of poverty. [[Abg. Stroll: compensation allowance is unaffected!]] No, the basic pension in Sweden is about our compensation allowance. And from 2018 on, more than 40 percent of the people in Sweden will only have to come out with exactly this money. [[Abg. Stroll: It's about the mechanics!]] Explain to the people that all your ideas go only towards the reduction of pensions! Say it clearly! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Tell me, everything that comes from you is a pension reduction! - Yes, I'm excited. [[Abg. Stefan: Don't be upset!]] It's just what I can be excited about, namely that people of old are at risk of having no pension that they're dealing with, that they don't have a pension with which they can somehow live well. We want to do so and have also made a proposal, and I would be very pleased if we could discuss at least our extensive request that we made at the last plenary session. There's already a lot of interest in it. I would also be pleased if at this level, namely in the House, we could once again discuss this request in every way. After all, we have proposed a model. I would now also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What's this about? – It is a matter of ensuring that the times when women work, i.e. the phase of working life, are so good that they have a safe pension in old age. As long as we don't work together to ensure that people earn good enough in the employment phase, that their income is high enough and that they have an income, this will never end up in the pension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] So let's look at the working time together, where it is about income, where it is that there are still people who, as soon as they have reached the statutory retirement age, are cancelled. We have to stop that. That is why I would like to support our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6579	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6815	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6838	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the NEOS for asking today's special meeting. This gives me the opportunity to talk about what we can improve in the Austrian pension system as a whole on the women's day. With our pension summit, we have made a contribution to improving the situation especially for women. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] First, the facts: The retirement age increases faster than we expected. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Please, that's not true!]] The federal funds that we need to do so remain stable, namely about 6 per cent of the gross domestic product. The government expenditure we need for pensions is well below the expectations each year. And I say quite clearly: We are talking about a quarter of the Austrian population, namely 2.5 million people who are also provided with income in the crisis, who rely on our pension system and who, I say clearly, have experienced over the last 60 years that they can also rely on this pension system. I say this again clearly: Over the last 60 years, we have prevented poverty in old age with our pension system for people in Austria. And, as the Minister of Finance is quite right, I would like to admit: We will continue our efforts to adapt the pension right. This will happen again and again because it is a quarter of the Austrian population and because it is about providing them with income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not about young people against old, it has already been mentioned today, it is about ensuring that people of old age are insured in the long term, and we have also achieved a lot at this pension summit. We have achieved that we continue the responsible path of further development of our pension system as we have in recent years. This is what the social partners need, which is what the people who are interested in the matter need. We have achieved that we have raised the minimum pension for 30 000 people – that is again for women. We have achieved the principle of rehabilitation before retirement. We want people to reach the statutory retirement age healthy. We have also taken another step. We have implemented a model for reintegrating after long diseases. This will also mean that people can stay healthy longer and that the statutory retirement age will also be reached. We have provided incentives for people to continue working even after reaching the statutory retirement age and that it is attractive to continue working. What's very important to me is: The newly established Pension Commission will provide a joint monitoring of statutory pensions and civil servants' pensions. This will promote the harmonisation of pensions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have been referred to the issue of Bank Austria. I have always said quite clearly and clearly: I'm talking about justice! I want to have the same conditions for all contributors. This applies to every bank, including Bank Austria. The Federal Government has today tabled a legislative proposal, and I am pleased if we can discuss it in Parliament on Thursday. There is the right place for this, and I am happy when everyone is willing to take the time to discuss this issue. I'm talking about justice. In conclusion: Our solidarity pension system has guaranteed stability for 60 years, it has also shown stability in the crisis. Some have learned nothing from the crisis and want a capital cover of the pension system. I can only tell you: Where you've done this, people have lost income. Some follow a contribution-financed model as in Sweden. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this would mean up to 35 percent reduction in pensions for us, and Sweden has therefore had to pay billions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS! I don't care if you're private. I don't care. However, we do not want to speculate with the pensions of Austrians! The amount of the pension must not depend on the stock price in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6884	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e6905	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Pensions are an essential pillar of social security. It is absolutely important that we also look at those generations that have built up our country, which through their hard work and their commitment have made Austria stand as it stands. At the same time, we must also give security to those who will be retired in the future. We must be able to tell them: You get a pension, a pension that you can live with! Today, ladies and gentlemen, on World Women's Day, I would also like to draw the focus a little more precisely towards women. We still have 900 000 women in Austria, pensioners who receive a compensation allowance. That means they have a total of €882, of which they have to live. And in all the discussions over the past few days and weeks, which is enough for those people who come to us, what we can do, we do not forget that there are a lot of pensioners living on the poverty line! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us also pay attention to the many, many hours which women do free of charge: 10 billion hours a year women work free of charge for society, for children's education, for care. [[Abg. Neubauer: Altenpflege!]] - For old-age care! They thus account for 66 percent of the total volume. This means that two thirds of this social work is still done free of charge by women. It is logical that at the end of the day those who sacrifice for the family, for society, receive less pension, because they did not look selfishly, that they have paid enough that they have come forward that their career has been in the foreground, but have given attention to the family. At this point, I would like to thank all the mothers who have been working for children who have had the courage to devote years to the children. Thank you all very much. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The fact that this work is often free of charge shows a very, very bad example that Martin Wabl, a former judge, former SPÖ countryman and former SPÖ Federal Councillor, has shown: A woman who raised nine children has a pension of 247 € at the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to look at this, and as a society, to ensure that women are able to choose to become mothers, to have a family and look at the children, even in the future, because we have created appropriate framework conditions, without having to land in poverty at the end of the day. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have often discussed increasing the age of women's pensioners, and there are different currents. One wants it immediately, one doesn't go fast enough, and the other says: We need a transitional period. I'm telling you quite honestly: Those who have the opportunity to work longer should be given the opportunity. There is no limit at all, we stand for it. But for a simple reason, we are opposed to equalizing this retirement age immediately: We don't have the jobs! Where are the women to find a job? Where is a 54-year-old who is unemployed to find a job with the perspective that she now has to work right up to 65? At the end of the day, this would be a reduction in pensions, and on the contrary, we are quite clear. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I see the pension summit inconsistency. I found an interesting quote from Mrs Korosec, ÖVP senior speaker, who meant: “Ideas have negotiated with each other, the result is a scandal.” I do not know, Mr Minister, how you feel about this when the EIA pension spokesman, senior speaker makes such a statement. [[Federal Minister Schelling: I can't stand it!]] [[Call:We have the senior spokesperson there.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: Mrs Korosec is not a senior speaker, she is not a member of Parliament!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: There are very different statements from Mr Stronach!]] There is another point that is absolutely scandalous for me: this injustice. We have not yet succeeded in establishing a system that is harmonised, the equality that creates justice. If, in turn, we look at what came out at the pension summit, namely that ASVG-pensionists, if they deserve to receive a part of their pension, and on the other hand, officials who already have a lot, much more pension than ASVG-pensionists, can earn without any restriction, then that is not fair for me. You can say ten times, well, that's constitutionally secured. We are sitting here in Parliament, we have the opportunity at all times to form constitutional majority groups and to use them in useful areas in order to amend existing laws. And I would like to see more reformation in order to really build a system that is just, a system in which there are no more privileges. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] Minister! You said the pensions were safe. The question is only what height they are sure at. And here I am completely with you: I do not want us to tell the younger generations: all the compensation recipients!, and on the other hand, those who now have privileges are in safety, saying: You're in retirement now, you have a well-acquired right, that's up to you. And you keep your privilege board! For this reason, we have long been making a request from the Stronach team – it has also been voted on several times – that those privilege pensions should no longer be gilded, i.e. that there are percentage pension increases only more up to the ASVG ceiling. Then the high pensions would automatically be introduced. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Although we are of course in favour of that, if we find any way to intervene in these luxury pensions, which are not due to contributions, we must do so immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, during the last debate in the National Council, all speakers from all political groups felt that luxury pensions are not justified and are not morally justified. And for this reason I would really like to start a joint action here in plenary and see together how we can abolish these luxury pensions in the sense of cross-generational fairness and justice. In this sense, I am already looking forward to the next constructive debates and I hope that we will continue on this point together.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7037	Mr Schellhorn has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7058	Mr President. Estimated Minister! In your speech in Replica on the colleague Loacker you also used a picture of medicine and meant that a general physician would have no idea of heart surgery. I want to strip another picture of medicine: I believe that the government is already in the coma, connected to the heart lung machine, and this heart lung machine is the countries, the national conference and the social partners. That's really what it looks like. And you're just waiting for the caretakers of red and black to come out to another room, so to speak, where you can hide. This is the picture we win when we listen to you. Mr. Minister, you were really my personal hope too. They were my hope-takers in the government. I thought at last there was a finance minister who had an idea of the whole story. They were also a hopeholder of many entrepreneurs, they were a hopeholder of generation justice. And you were – let us remember your budget speech – the hopeholder for a balanced budget. That's you! [[Call to the ÖVP: That's the difference, that's not the NEOS!]] What happened to it? – Apparently, it is your marketing shame to let nothing follow in big words. There's a gross failure if you can say so. And what happened? In autumn, you promised something to be registered in plenary and to the E131 rule, and in January your promise from your ministry was overruled that a chip rule will come next year. If you tell me today or in your budget speech something about a debt, a re-indebtedness, that they want to see it differently and differently, and if you talk about it and introduce new taxes and higher taxes for entrepreneurs, then the hope will be slow. There is no optimism at all, which Mrs Schwentner spoke about. This is exactly the same as when I get a parachute from the Minister for Social Affairs, which is defective, and he says: Show some optimism and jump once! This is never going to happen in life, and his quote will never be that the pensions are safe. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And you know that these pensions are not safe! I don't want to imagine how the financial balance is now. It will be about the same as we have been told in the case of the registration obligation, in the case of higher taxes and, above all, in the case of pensions: I can't do anything! Debt is always the other – and unfortunately this is not a responsible policy. That you can still look in the mirror! I always thought we were both of the same blow. We are entrepreneurs and we have to do what we think is right. As you have said, we cannot spend more than we take. We should come there, and then we can also give people pure wine. Then it can also be said that these pensions are not safe, but that we have to start correspondingly hard repairs. When we talk about the privileges of the city of Vienna already mentioned and when we talk about the average ASVG-pension of 1 000 € and the average official's pension is 3 000 €, with dues until the doctor comes. They can do what they want, they can earn it! You think that's fair? Why didn't you regulate that? Why Have You didn't abolish these privileges? These are the questions that concern us. And since I don't need to look after new concepts, I just need to abolish these privileges, that would have won a lot already. What you're doing now is giving the ASVG insured the principle of rehabilitation before retirement. This is not the case with officials who jump with the greatest Gaudi and joy by trampoline to the pension. That happens, and you explain to us that you want to create justice. The principle should be – I believe we can both talk about it – that we honor performance. How do you want to make me aware that what we're doing here is powerful? Older people should also be able to earn it – but only the officials can. The others are not allowed to do that, they are all shortened. What you are proposing is anti-performance and therefore cannot be a concept. There must be a performance-friendly and performance-enhancing principle. It should therefore also apply to both systems, and incentives should be provided. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In my opinion, must They finally create these conditions for people to work, because only through contributors – and we all know that – will this pension system be filled, not by pensioners. However, as far as this principle is concerned with the parachute – the pensions are safe – there will soon be a few places on earth, and that is a picture that I do not want to dream of. If you were to finally give people pure wine, we would not have to talk about optimism, because then people in this country would know what to do. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7126	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7209	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7233	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The labour market is the key factor in financing our pension system. Only high employment and high-quality jobs also ensure our pensions, and the relationship between pensioners and employees is far more important than the relationship between young and old age groups. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We know that policy measures have been taken in recent years. Unemployment must continue to be combated, health protection and training must be improved, health prevention and rehabilitation must be forced, but above all, measures must be stepped up for older people who want to stay in employment longer. In many discussions, attention is always drawn to the private provision of the system. You think you can also secure the system with private care. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I can give you an example, and you can then give yourself the answer to the question of whether we want to build our pension system on such a system: If you want to get about 1 000 € private pension per month plus holiday and Christmas money, and the estimated 20 retirement years, you need about 280 000 €. To get this together, 45 years of work per month would have to put away around €500, and even then the risk of plant loss remains. That's where the question arises: How should an average earner who, in addition to costs for housing, heating and food, be able to afford such amounts? Our pension system has been well thought out for decades, well secured with a payment procedure and also equipped against financial and economic crises. We are facing a reasonable development, but we are not in favour of the destruction of this system. The measures already adopted are based on all the key figures: The actual age of entry is increasing faster than expected, the number of invalidity pensions is falling, rehabilitators are more likely to return to the labour market and state expenditure on old-age insurance remains stable in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are always talking about State expenditure on pension schemes, we need to be aware that the federal grant is not an aid but a part of our pension system, which remains stable in the long term. This is also shown by the investigations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our group is convinced that our Austrian pension system is future-proof, guarantees income for 2.3 million Austrians and is a central pillar for social cohesion in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7273	I call Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7294	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to start with something positive today: At the pension summit, a number of things have been decided, which make sense, too, in my opinion, this is mentioned. In my view, it is positive that the Pensions Commission will be re-established – I am pleased to see that, in addition to senior representatives, scientists, experts and international experts, a youth representative will be represented in this Commission. I am pleased that in the whole debate on pensions, we have also thought of those who are not doing so well in health, who are no longer able to work fully, but who may want to use the opportunity to work a little and get back into the work process instead of just living by reforming the rehab-pension and the I-pension. In my opinion, it is good to point out, especially on a World Women's Day, that there are now improvements for single people by increasing the compensation allowance, and, as a representative of the ÖVP, which is especially dear to the family, I am pleased that we have now implemented the billing of child rearing times for women born in 1955. I think all of this is positive and belongs mentioned. [[Complementary of the Abg. Aubauer.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: But not the way the women want it!]] But I don't want to make any locusts that I am angry as a young person. I am angry when I look at how these discussions are being held here. I am angry when we accept seeing eyes that the pension system will be adjusted in Vienna just later, which will cost taxpayers net € 350 million to 2042. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stroll.]] I am angry when my generation – whether woman or man – retires at the age of 65 and sees this as a matter of course, while in Vienna the average pension age is 57 and a few squeezers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] I am angry when this debate repeatedly attempts to play out young people against old people when attempts are being made to startle insecurity, to fear reforms. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like – Mrs Glavischnig mentioned it earlier – that we bring a little bit of materiality into this debate. I think it would be good if we would give pure wine to the people, as Mr Schellhorn said, if we resolved to make a policy with fear and perhaps overstated formulations such as "srape." [[Abg. Pendl: I think so too!]] Many comparisons have recently been made in this debate on pensions. In my opinion, it is best to describe it with the Titanic. The Titanic was the safest ship in the world before it ran out, and so is the pension system: The pensions are safe. Ladies and gentlemen, all who are sitting in front of the screen now and who are taking a pension – you will continue to receive a pension even if we don't do anything. However, I can also tell you that those in my generation who are now making these contributions to this pension system – and we are happy to do so, we stand on the pay-back process, we insist that one generation is there for the other – will not have a secure pension system in the future if we do not start to implement reforms soon. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] We simply must not ignore a few things: In the 1970s, our average retirement age was over 60 years. In the meantime, it is less than 60 years when one calculates the statistical tricks of the last months. These are things that we cannot simply push aside; these are things that we must take seriously. That is where we must take measures, because we will not get around it. I would particularly like to address you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: We must make reforms! This will not go without, we cannot rest on these small units, but it will be necessary that we put the truth on the table, that we recognize the facts and that we implement these reforms. I would just like to give you a quote from the “Press” of 3rd. Read on March: “For years, reforms in Austria have been carried away responsibly”, and the rulers who say so turn against a “crustled, old-time social democracy of the possessors”. Do you know who says that? – This does not come from the ranks of FPÖ, SPÖ, Green or NEOS, but from an association called “the progressive social democrats”. [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Katzian and Gisela Wurm.]] This should give you some thought, for it is obvious that even in your family there are people who look to the truth, who do not ignore the facts that have obviously studied the economy, who are dealing with the facts and therefore know what to do. I would be pleased if there would also be a little more willingness to implement the necessary reforms to ensure that my and future generations find a secure pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7379	Mr Neubauer. — (NL) Mr President, the next item is the report by Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7401	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you very much for this very emotional speech, in which you have called for a great deal. I'm just wondering: You're in the government, why don't you do it? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's easy. Always clean yourself and say: They are to blame, and they say that they are to blame!, that will ultimately not be the case for the Austrian and the Austrians in the future. It is a bit laborious if you are allowed to express yourself permanently on the topic of pensions, but after that you have to gain the knowledge that nothing does change again. Mr Schwentner said that we would not make any proposals. . I should just like to remind you that in the last six years alone, we have submitted 27 requests to the pension system. For years, we have called for the reform required by the Court of Auditors to be finally implemented from 2008 to 2009. We have finally called for the harmonisation of pension systems and also for the Minister to give the appropriate legal opportunities in order, for example, to achieve a breakthrough in financial compensation. - Nothing happened. We have called for the merger of social security funds. Three years ago, we called for this pension commission to be dissolved in the current form, because it has only served to make mutual accusations but has not caused any cause for people in Austria. And we have called for this nonsense to be left out with the Golden Handshakes at last, because this even allows for financial possibilities, since something else deserves to be earned. Mr Minister, this too is at last part of the agenda! This has not yet been done. This is, of course, the point where we come back to the pension summit. People are wondering: What did the pension summit bring us now? I was at some pension discussions over the last few days. People asked me: Mr Neubauer, is the pension system more fair now, after this pension summit? Is it correct, or is it even more sustainable? I told them: No, it's not, on the contrary! We have not only had the announcement by the Minister that he wants to tax the pension account, which would on average make a quarter of the pensions a loss, we also have the question of punishing old-age pensions and the question of Bank Austria, which my colleague Belakovich-Jenewein has referred to, and both times we have a constitutional complaint in the room at the same time! Yes, in which house are we making proposals, although we know from the outset that it is not in order for us to decide what is to be decided here? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's not all right! If we know that already more than 330 employees with complaints against their own service provider, Bank Austria, have already come to court at Bank Austria, then the Minister must finally think that there is something wrong. If we are still talking today about the fact that pensions are only secured if we have a secure job and this is, of course, massively threatened in the last few months, then we must finally see that we are finally entering into barriers and that social abuse in Austria – which is closely linked – is finally halted. It can't be that I punish the pensioners on the one hand, but on the other hand it comes to luxury pensions at such height! [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] There the gentleman gets 23 500 € salary from TIWAG in Tyrol and a pension of 4 000 €, and there will not be stepped in, ladies and gentlemen, dear! There is social abuse – regardless of whether this is done by Austrians or other people who do not own Austrian citizenship. Income of €3 000 will be achieved, and this social abuse will not even be detected in Austria. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] As 3 000 € will be taken up for the alleged care of grandparents, then you want to call the grandson to account because he is not at home, then the good man in Serbia will build a house – with this horrendous money in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There's no will to control. And as long as this abuse is not stopped in Austria, we will also have no money for further pension measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7486	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7507	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! Many of us boys are afraid that they will once get too little pension; some even fear that – we have heard it today – they will not get a pension at all, and about 80 percent of boys find that the pension system needs to be reformed. This is, as it were, the background. Now the pension summit has been announced, it has long been announced that there will be reforms, but in fact not much has happened. The only big proposal to be heard and I was really amazed was yours, Minister Schelling. They said in advance that something should be changed – that sounds so unwarranted – in the upgrading of pensions, in the case of pension accounts, that would be the proposal. That would really mean that for us boy the pension – so if I retired in 40 years – would fall by 30 to perhaps even 40 percent. [[Federal Minister Schelling:... Milkmaid bill!]] I would like to hear what the idea was behind this proposal, because it makes this uncertainty really totally worse and would be absolutely unfair. In my opinion, the core of the problem is that in politics many people think more of their own shirt or perhaps of the next choice than of the question of how we boys, like my generation, will be in 30 or 40 years. This is similar to the environment, for example, it is so, that is in education, which we experience more often. That's why my colleague Judith Schwentner and I thought about it and asked ourselves: How can we create the really positive elements of this pay system, which is the world's peak – we are the green fans of the Austrian model – into the 21st century? To transform into the century? How do we really create a safe and also good pension system for our young? We have drawn up a five-point proposal for a new generation contract, which I would like to present to you briefly, and with this proposal, we are at the same time pointing out where we are criticising the current system. First point of our proposal: We want a basic board of 870 € per month. There are 53 000 women living in poverty in Austria – we have heard it many times today. We want every young person to be sure that he will not have to live in poverty at the pension, but that he will get € 870. I know that not all parties support this concern, but I don't think it's okay if you have to put on food brands like in the USA. As the 11th richest country in the world, we should really create a system in which there is no poverty. In my opinion, that is a moral question. Second point: We want, in addition to this base, to this basic pension, that every work pays off, so you earn it and you get more away from this poverty limit with each month of work. Third proposal: We want the privileges and the luxury pensions to fall away. For example, there are people who have a pension of €31,000 – you have to imagine this: 31,000 € per month! We want to change this, we also want to actively intervene in these existing pensions. With regard to this question, I think we must also break a few taboos, even here in this room: There are old-fashioned pensions, for example, where you get €13 000 pension because you have been ministers for a few years, these claims are also available in the room. In my opinion, we can calmly consider whether those who have high pensions should do something and make a higher contribution. I think every euro above the ASVG limit is a euro that we can and should discuss in Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fourth point: We want to merge pension insurance into pension insurance. No young person understands why in the current world of work you have several different pension insurances and different pension systems, for example one for the farmers, one for the employees, one for the self-employed. We want a pension insurance, in which there are really the same rights and the same claims, where we want to get there. This is probably also a way to save money and make the world of work fair. Fifth point: We want to delete the promotion of ‘casino pensions’. Currently, €3.2 billion each year is spent on the promotion of private pensions, i.e. “casino pensions”. I think that's an insanity, I think, that's an incredibly bad incentive that we as a state say: We promote for younger people that they carry their money into the financial casino, so that they can go so to speak with the money! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Awesome!]] That's the idea, and that's €3.2 billion, and I also know that there are some who want more in this direction. Let us look at this in a practical example! – The US, for example, is much stronger built on these private pensions than we are. In the US, for example, the last financial crash a few years ago caused the private pension funds to lose two trillion dollars. Two trillion dollars! There are people in the U.S. who have only half of their pension after the financial crash and now have to stand around food brands and sleep in the car. That's the one thing, and then you have to figure out how uncertain that's for us boy then in 40 years. For 40 years to trust the financial market, this is nothing but soccer, which is “casino pensions”. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think everyone who speaks for it is actually a lobbyist for insurance companies and for banks, for these are the only ones who win in this casino. The only one who really wins is the casino, and I really advise every young person my age to trust the financial market. By the way, I understand why policy is not so familiar, but I say one thing: It is quite certain that the banks and insurance companies can be trusted even less than the policy because they are primarily focused on one thing, namely only to make money. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's why I'm convinced that we can manage the Austrian model into the 21st century. To bring about the century, and I even think that when we make these reforms, we young people will once experience a better and a more fair pension system than we have today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7583	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7605	Mr President. Mr Schelling and Mr Stäger! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! The founder of today's request has spoken of a refusal to reform, which is felt by this government – we only think of this most necessary combination of pension funds, of all these unused possibilities in the course of the last budgetary reform! Instead of saving and putting the focus there, new taxes and new ideas such as the register have been introduced. That is why, Minister Schelling, I really must confirm what you said: We should listen to the people! [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] But the people no longer have the feeling that they are being heard, quite the contrary: The people are looking less and less for politicians, let alone politics and strategies and the results of this policy! Last time, last week, I really hit my way home. When we started there, I said: Let's talk about life! We had Economic Committee last week – paralysing, standstill, not the worst is possible! This has been expressed even more clearly by the Tourism Committee. If not even the most banal things like the employees close to family members are possible at peak times when a bus or a hiking group comes, because there is a need for a session interruption: Yes, please, what does this government want to negotiate on important issues, such as TTIP, on major reforms, as now in this pension reform?- Oh, my God! – We have felt this, the comments also confirm it, since 1990 there have been pension reforms. Mr. Julian Schmid has now presented the view of youth. I have a bit of a problem, because it is generally assumed to the banks and the insurers that they cannot be trusted. That's a flat-rate conviction I have to reject. But here I would like to present the view: How is this generation of structures, which is now in retirement, which this country has built up with a great deal of renunciation, and which, in part, gets embarrassing pensions? [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] We have completely forgotten that we have over 900 000 pensioners who have a pension of less than €900 per month, and I think it is very essential that we address these professional groups, these concerns and needs when they are addressed that they cannot afford life. Some times I have the feeling that we are completely discussing the subject, completely past the population, and it would be really good if some politicians sometimes went to the tribal table, to a music or fire brigade assembly or a sportsman or beekeeper assembly and would hear what one thinks of a register obligation, and hear what it would be like when politics goes out on the one hand and praises the voluntaryity and says how important it is – that is very important, that is out of question – and at the same time these small revenues, which are only achieved because really all of them work on a voluntary and free basis, the members to be taxed, according to the motto: [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: We are always sitting at home!]] Give us your good money and be good, then let's give you a little bit back! – This is not a policy for the people, it is politics against the people! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] ==References====External links== March reports on this, and I really have to say this to the journalists that they are dealing with the current pension differences we have in the population, and I think that this is particularly worrying today on the world women's day, which is really happening in a historic way. I would also like to thank, at this point, as a family speaker, especially for women and educators for this brilliant performance they provide for this state, because only well-taught, well-trained children, who grow up in truly good capacities, can be the leaders of this state who can go out into life with the necessary foundation and then face the challenges there. We only need to look at the pension heights: In the ASVG the men have 1 587 €, unlike the women with 981 €, in the trade the men have 1,748 €, the women 1 083 €, in agriculture, in the farmers, the men have 1 153 €, the farmers 637 €, and at the officials have the men 3 390 € and the officials 3 136 €. That's why I was a little excited the last time the pension expert Rossmann told the Greens that the farmers are the beneficiaries in this pension system. I was just expecting him to see that much social. The farmers are the victims of this agricultural policy. We have closed over 110 000 farms, as the contributors die away, and especially the farmers, who, like other mothers, have raised most children, most of the contributors who, of course, today pay in to other professional groups who have done the greatest performance, are now 637 € the finished ones in this system – and that on World Women's Day! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Maybe to the mothers: Where is it, Mr Wöginger, the ÖVP, the family party, if these four years of child rearing are still not fully calculated when, within these four years, the birth gap was shorter for siblings? – This woman has done this work – no matter if she has had a child every two years or once in a year and once three years later or seven years later – she has raised three children. [[Complementary with the Stronach team, with representatives of the FPÖ as well as with Mr Tamandel and Mr Schittenhelm.]] Therefore, my colleague, Worm – because you have addressed this and so vehemently used yourself for women – also appeals to the Socialist Party: Not the narrator is enough, but the one who has reached it counts! There are such abuses, which were also not corrected by the Socialist Party. You've had this in your hands. Why don't you do that? – That’s the question! Why do I have to put myself in the hall and say: We still have so much work to do, and that's what we're working for! - No one believes that. Then: You haven't made it so far. That is the decisive! – Just, but please, not in 100 years, but when it goes, in this period of government. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: One by one!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We will be discussing rural areas in this House in the near future, and I think it has to do with this pension issue very much, with the job opportunities, with this small industry, from the hosts to the small-scale, medium-sized enterprises, which, because of this policy, are now blocking their businesses. They're gonna miss us. Especially in these sizes, attention has been paid to family conditions very often. Consideration has been given to saying: I would have to leave earlier, I work for it longer tomorrow!, there were simply personal, more flexible service conditions that are of course not possible in a large company, in a group. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are all invited to take the necessary steps to shape a single policy for the future, which will also ensure as appropriate a pension as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7706	Mrs Kucharovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7727	Mr President. Mr. Minister! - Now I'm talking. [[Abg. Steinbichler speaks to Abg. Gisela Worm.]] First, just one thing: We do not celebrate the family day today, because a number of colleagues, mainly men in this case, are constantly invited to talk about family policy. We are celebrating the International Women's Day today. At this point: solidarity sisters! [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and Greens.]] Now on the real topic. – For eternity and three days we have heard the same leader of many conservatives and neoliberals: The boys don't get any more pensions! Ladies and gentlemen from NEOS, you have not invented this message. This message has been dreaming about a number of politicians for 100 years, and we unfortunately have to hear it again today, both from the government bank, from Minister Schelling, and from colleague Asdin El Habbassi, who is not in the room right now. I just think it's very bad, because this drumming is, on the one hand, scary and, on the other, just wrong. I don't think anything about both methods, both fear and spread wrong things. I also think that this is a very irrational policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I and many other people can't hear it either, and we don't have to listen to it either, because the charging procedure, namely the state pension system, is safe. Not only do I say or claim that, but we know that from the past, we know that from present figures, and that is what some experts say. Our system is not dependent on the capital market, and we have seen – and some colleagues have already done so – that is not certain, because some of those people who have invested in private pension systems in other countries, but also in us, have partly obtained “glore” amounts of 50 percent of the capital they paid back at the time. This is highly risky and speculative for us and certainly not feasible with us – quite honestly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the contrary: I believe that there should be public support for private pension provision – there is still – completely put on zero – Mr Julian Schmid, you have mentioned it – because this money is to be invested in the labour market from my point of view, because it is precisely about the charging procedure. It just lives on the full-time jobs of people who pay into the system. I am therefore also very pleased that the SPÖ negotiators at the pension summit have turned away some unfair proposals that have been put on the table for young people, including women, who would have been planned by the ÖVP. Keywords: Increase the pension after the inflation rate and not after the increase in wages. This would mean a 30 percent reduction for the 20-30s today. This has nothing to do with generation justice or generation fairness. That is why I am very glad that Minister Stöger has clearly rejected this and that it will not come. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what do you want and need young people? – Not only do I say that, but the group itself: Participation and co-determination at eye level. I am therefore pleased that youth representatives will now sit in a parity with seniors in the Commission. It is very important that young people talk together with the older generation. Secondly, they need business and fair jobs, that is, paid so much that they can live on them as well. This is what the young people need, and they don't need to skip from an internship to the next, which is underpaid or completely unpaid. This is exploitation in 2016 and unfair. I very much hope that, after considering the lack of early increase in the age of women's retirement and also their return on automatic pensions, there will also be a rethinking on the part of the ÖVP regarding internships. That's unfair. The young people need fair jobs, and that's what they deserve.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7838	Mrs Mag. Aubauer will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7860	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Values for the previous speaker! We're the family party. But we also celebrate the women's day, because women are mothers and part of the families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Back to the core question: What do we need to secure pensions in the long term? – Austria is a country where social security is written in capital letters. That's good. That's what we're proud of. It's supposed to stay the same. But let us not be deceived that this could work even without adjustments. In 1971 the Austrians were on average eight years in pension. In 2011 it was 22 years. And if we don't do anything, my grandchildren will be retired for 30 years. That can't go out. What, then, is to be done? – It is gradually starting to adapt our good pension system to change, improve and secure. How are we going? – The pension summit shows: We set priorities. You also climb every mountain with small steps and still come to the summit. First step: We want to reduce the high number of invalidity pensions by helping – these are dramatic fates – to find a job again. The The goal is that as many as possible can stay healthy in the job until the regular retirement age. Assuming that this brings many benefits to women. Why? – Two thirds of women who claim disability pension or rehabilitation allowance do so because of mental causes due to mental illness. That is where we help women if we start earlier when we give them the opportunity for healthy jobs and better prevention. Dear colleagues from the NEOS! They're talking about a pan at the pension summit, but for us it's a clear improvement. Another step: The billing of child training periods for the pension will be improved. The colleagues have already done it very well: For up to eight years, pensioners are charged – an improvement for women again! Pension splitting will be longer than currently possible – up to 14 years. Women with a higher pension benefit from this. A pane, dear colleagues? – No, that’s another improvement! I am pleased that we can continue to negotiate another planned measure here in Parliament, namely: How do we deal with volunteers who want to earn next to an old age pension? – A reduction in the acquired pension cannot be the solution. It is important for us: Performance must pay off! We will continue to negotiate and come to a good solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The question is also: How can pensions be secure for our grandchildren at acceptable height? Is that possible? – Yes, if we have enough jobs if people can work for a longer period of time and if we constantly adapt our proven pension system, without any extra sausages as in Vienna – keyword: the still not done pension harmonisation – but with the same rules for everyone. Important is: Improve, customize and secure – we will succeed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7933	Mrs Schimanek is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e7954	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a brief look at Mrs Aubauer's point of view. You meant the ÖVP is the family party. I now have to make a few brief comments on points from your program: ‘Fund-free income for families: Introducing a 7,000 euro child allowance – not enforced “indexation of family benefits” – not implemented, “Full billing of child education times” – not implemented, “Upgrading of the age limit and the amount of the deductibility of child care costs to the end of compulsory schooling” – not implemented; that is, far, far away from family party! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Aubauer and Mr Tamandel]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to my speech about the pension summit, which has been more or less just a pension hill. It was clear today in the discussion for all: There's a crack going through the government parties. They aim at each other from the stage, which one or the other has not implemented and who prevents one and does not let one come up. This has been a embarrassing spectacle at the special session today, and you really haven't put up with fame. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many of my previous speakers have also addressed the International Women's Day today – yes, it is now the 105th anniversary. Let's go. And I was already a little surprised if my colleague Gisela Wurm, who came here and fought in old SPÖ women's manner for the women's affairs and, in the end, was more or less satisfied with just lazy compromises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] – You said: We are satisfied, there is no worse position for women at this pension summit. - It's too little for me. I do not think this is enough because I believe that the increase in the compensation allowance now decided on for the minimum pensioners from €883 to €1,000 can only be very, very few women, because a continuous employment of 30 years cannot be achieved for women with children who also have a longer education. These women will not benefit from this increase, and that is not fair. They act here with half-truths that are simply not true. Also, the reduction in the service contribution to half for women from 60 to 63 years of age is, I believe, very, very little, because many women – as Mrs Schwentner has said – come from unemployment into retirement, and these will not have much of this measure. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: The legal retirement age is not raised!]] It is also, I believe, very, very noteworthy that the ÖVP – I have already said – has not taken into account the perfect accounting of four years at child rearing times. We have not made any improvement with this pension hill – the term “mountain” at all –. [[Further call of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] That is why, Mrs Schittenhelm, I would like to give you once again the opportunity to support your request that you have made in the last few days and to make a request in this regard. In this context, not least in the light of the loss of pensions, the Members who have been signed make the following request as a result of part-time work due to child care or care obligations: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8041	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schimanek is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8154	The next speaker is Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8176	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schimanek, you have listed what we are planning and what has not yet been implemented. But we still see ourselves as the family party, because we are working on it. Especially in the pension system, we see that we are the family party and we are thinking in a sustainable way, because we want to expand it and secure it so that it can be financed in the long term. [[Abg. Schimanek: Just as you're fighting, I can't imagine this happening!]] Therefore, there is also a need for consistent reform, and today is a small reform step in this direction. If we already spend every fourth euro on the budget for pensions, this is a high contribution. Austria is the country most spent on pensions after Italy. When we look at this: From 2000 to 2016, expenditure increased from € 10.7 billion to € 20.2 billion. It's not enough for you to just talk about it, but you have to see how you can make the system financeable. At the pension summit, it was just one of the top goals to secure pensions and, of course, to motivate people to stay in working life longer. First steps have been taken, and it has, of course, been us as an ÖVP, since we bear responsibility for youth and the next generations and also for justice for women and for families, especially important that there is a lot to do. So, too, a lot has been achieved – it has already been addressed today. As a farmer, I am of course particularly pleased that we are thinking here of the youth, the families and also the single and the minimum pensioners, for women in particular are making a big contribution in our society and have many tasks that they are dealing with, and they are actually indispensable. In the family sector too, it must not be so that those women who are with their children will have a disadvantage in old age. For this reason, a pensionable allowance of eight years for women who were born in 1955 has been decided at this pension summit. It has also been mentioned by my previous speakers that there has been a voluntary pension split since 2005. This has up to four years gone by now, which has been increased; now it is possible per child up to seven years and a maximum of 14 years. This is an important contribution. We also have a lot of lower pensions, especially in the area of farmers. With the increase in the compensation allowance to € 1,000, a big step has been taken here, because those who have more than 30 real years of contribution can benefit from it. So that we can also increase the retirement age – for those who do more should also get more – there is now the possibility that women over 60 years of age and men over 65 will work three years longer and pay only half of the pension insurance contributions. I think we have great responsibility for our young generation. Their future is important to us, because this pension reform is only a small step. Further steps must be taken, we must introduce a mechanism of justice. This, of course, can also be used to counteract numerous problems. The top command must be to think of our next generation so that this one also has a pension.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8215	Mr Themessl is now speaking. Still speaking time of your club: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8237	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, it is not only the fact that you have been conducting an attack on small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria for years with overriding templates, with more and more new regulations, no, now you also start an attack on the powerful Austrians, an attack on the regular pensions. Mr Federal Minister, I don't know what you thought about it. Instead of being glad that there are still Austrians who are willing to work until the statutory retirement age, you also want to punish them for this. Instead of being glad that people make sure that the actual retirement age is brought forward to the legal person more quickly, they also punish them for doing so. It is particularly disgraceful, Minister Stöger, that you want to stand here and also sell it as an incentive system to work longer by promising them, then, after 68. Age in men and after the 63rd in women to get more pension. What you do not say, however, is that you will take away for three years up to half of your regular pension, Mr Federal Minister, exactly those people you should be grateful for. That's not what you're saying, and that's particularly disgraceful. [[Abg. El Habbassi: This is from the table!]] Mr Federal Minister, I urge you to take this back in all cases. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, in your pension reform you do not use any single sentence to attack all the special rights, starting from the National Bank, the ÖBB and Post, to the employees of the social security funds and the city of Vienna, even in the approach and to do something about it. They refer to it and say: There is no way of retroactively interfering in laws. I remind you: They have not had a genius to cut down on the state-funded future provision. They did not have a genius to reduce retroactively in the construction savings contracts. You have dealt with the legislation carelessly, also retroactively. In the case of special pension schemes, in all the areas that I have listed to you now, you are not nearly ready to do anything. You are not even able to think of it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, if you already want to put on the table a pension reform, I ask you to put an immediate end to these nonsensees that prevail in such institutions!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8290	The next speaker was Mr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8312	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I am grateful to NEOS for today's special meeting. This was absolutely useful, because the pension theme is a hot iron, and that belongs forged until it fits the citizen. And it doesn't fit yet. However, to call the system a “srap tire” was, of course, a provocation, whereby I have a flaw for provocations, as you know. That's why that's all right. [[Abg. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, ……]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In principle, one has to say that a payment procedure is, of course, a good thing. For this, many countries in Europe envy us. We only have a rupture that we all know about and that we all know about, because of aging and underjudging, in order to express it this way. We have a very massive need for improvement. I am fully in favour of discussing the adaptation of pensions to life expectancy and that we need to adjust the age of women's pensions – today, as we have heard many times, the day of women's pensions. From my point of view, this is a massive discrimination, and from the point of view of most of the co-thinking women, too. But it is very important to think about the pension system in principle. This cannot be done by looking at the pension system in isolation, because the pension system is inseparably related to the family, the young person and the birth rate. That's still far too little to come out today. We need to look at the pension system together with family policy, because there are no pensions for sure, only the family, ladies and gentlemen. Certainly, only a society that has enough young people. All sociologists will confirm to us that the family is still the safest social structure and that the state cannot push itself into the role of taking over all social tasks for people in a country, for citizens. That is why, if we want to reform and discuss the pension system, we must try to focus, above all, on families, children, on promoting families with children – because what happens when we return the funding? We saw this last year in France. France has always been the country in Europe with a very high, sometimes even the highest birth rate per woman, with more than two children per woman. What happened under the socialist government? – Family promotions have been reduced. What happened to the birth rate? - She's gone back. In other words, the state's family support is essential for the survival and existence of the families. That means that we need not only a pension reform, but also a family policy reform. We need more funding for mothers with children, we need more social recognition. My appeal at the end goes to the two government parties: Let's finally get rid of client policy together! Let's finally get to the heart of the thing! Let us take care of the families, the women, the fathers, the children! Let's finally make a good policy for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8353	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8375	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Reforms are being pushed forward. This Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, has managed to make a maximum pension hill out of a pension summit. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – These results are less than thin, Mr. Cot. There is some progress, that is out of question. It is also important, for example, to re-enter after serious illness – these were addressed by Mr Social Minister. There are valuable years of standstill, ladies and gentlemen. This is not to be understood and not to be understood. On the one hand, very valued ladies and gentlemen, High House, many diligent people are supposed to work up to 70 and longer. On the other hand, there are still enough luxury and top pensions from close-to-state businesses, two-year pay-outs, golden handshakes and much more. And all that, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, pay very well the ASVG insured. You also have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the diligent worker or employee pays 80 percent of his pension itself – with his contributions. Yes, in principle, everyone is the same, some the same. And there are still the extra sausages – and we have heard this today – that the countries, such as Vienna, addressed by Mr Finanzminister: There are still pension sugars in social security schemes with various special schemes. The luxury pensions were cut down and reduced, and so this pension reform will go into history as the unfinished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8421	The next speaker is Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8442	Mr President. Mr. Minister! For pension schemes: The current pension systems are primarily based on employees' pension contributions, but more and more people receive benefits from our social wells without ever paying anything into them. [[Abg. Pendl: You know who they are, who don't pay!]] It seems quite understandable, therefore, that a change in the pension system must be made. This is an extremely high number of unemployed, unfavourable economic conditions for the medium-sized economy as well as an unabated number of economic refugees. This is contrary to the pension rights of certain officials and employees, as well as managers of state and state establishments, with pension benefits exceeding €30 000 per month not being rare. In this respect, widow's pensions of 60 percent of the net pension are also not to be disregarded. The aim of a pension reform must be to ensure that pension rights are sufficient to meet daily needs, with existing inequality to the benefit of the system. Further objective of a pension reform should be the creation of a single and uniform pension insurance institution, with upper limits linked to earnings. The employee expects to secure his pension in a sustainable manner and should also be able to rely on the State's obligation to pay long-term contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8479	Next speaker: Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8500	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Somehow the debate has gone completely out of the row in the last three hours. If you look at the NEOS application, I really wonder: Where did this come from, this ghost of a pension reform? We are also wearing the Conservative Party, which originally spoke to the Government Party in the Government Convention about a pension summit to re-evaluate the screws where we have social weaknesses and where, of course, we need to re-establish and also secure our long-term pensions. At one time the pension ghost appeared; and see what went along with it – a pension automatic. Ladies and gentlemen, what would that mean? – With a single stroke, that would mean that all ASVG insured persons – speak to employees and workers – until 69. A life-year must work and receive a discount of 20 percent of their pension. With one stroke, this would have meant raising the age of women's pension age – now to 65 years – as Mr Strolz demands. [[Abg. Stroll: Flexipension! 61!]] Has You ever think about it? Do you even know that women today unfortunately have to sleep 79 percent out of unemployment – in other words unemployment – because they can't work because they don't have a single job? [[Abg. Loacker: 18 percent!]] You go with your request and insist on an immediate increase to 65 years. [[Abg. Stroll: That's not true!]] Furthermore, the SPÖ – and this must also be said – prevented the early increase in the age of women's pensions, with the increase in the compensation allowance to € 1,000 for those who really have little pension. That was the first step. The next step was to freeze the federal grant. Ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean in the normal case? – To freeze the federal grant means nothing but an immediate low-rate pensioner with a 30 percent pension loss for men and women in the ASVG. No human being of the conservative party and no man of NEOS can want that. The latter, by the way, only the rich want to protect and build a third pillar here in Austria, just as it happened in America. To recall what happened to the third pillar – the pension column – in Austria, I would just like to remind you of the 2009 financial crisis. All the money has disappeared – and some of my previous speakers have already said it – and this money does not remain in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Karl.]] 2.5 million Austrians, who today are pensioners, have not deserved this – nor have the youth. It's got to end with this pension ghost. As a working person, I can expect a good education, a roof above my head, an adequate job to finance my livelihood, and above all a safe living on my evening. If this is not guaranteed, you will never have the SPÖ with you!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8577	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8599	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Knes, I have some corrections: How much percentage of women are retired from unemployment? –Collegine Worm has already claimed that it would be more than 70 percent of women, Mr. Knes says, over 70 percent. You can read on the side of the Social Ministry that there are 18 percent of women who retire from unemployment. It's a little bit more with the men. [[Abg. Schimanek: Too much anyway!]] What you can read on the side of the Social Ministry – and I recommend, Minister, that you look at your own page – is how the net replacement rate in this charging process is falling from 44 percent to 34 percent. That is, according to what you have decided, we do nothing and people get less out. They're not telling them honestly! [[Abg. Karl: That's what we're against!]] It is not going to happen that we are living longer and longer, as Mr Aubauer correctly said, and that we are not spending a little bit of this extra lifetime working too. It doesn't matter mathematically. That is also the point of saying what is needed. Mr Minister, you obviously did not understand the difference between a capitalised and a contribution-oriented system, as the Sweden have. In the first place, Sweden does not have a capitalised system, but in the first place they have a levying procedure. In Sweden, of the 18.5 percent pension insurance contribution, 16 percent are paid and 2.5 percent are covered by capital. What you can see after 20 years of this Swedish system, is that Sweden is getting out of the capital-covered part more than out of the backlog, although the Dotcom blow and the financial and debt crisis were involved in 2008. This devil of evil capital, which you always paint on the wall, doesn't exist at all. Mr Minzig has said that she does not want the Swedish system because we have to pay 27 percent of the pension insurance contribution. Mrs. Dr. Minzig, this is voodoo mathematics. In fact, they have left something out of the pension system, which is what flows us from the family compensation fund. However, you have to take that into account. You have left out what flows into the pension system of tax funds, which you have to add to the contribution of 22.8 percent. That's where you come to significantly more than the 27 percent that the Sweden have. You need to look at the numbers more realistically and don't get to figure out what you like right now. Col. Wurm was also good at driving – so that I had a bit of fear – because she was committed to women's rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] Mrs Wurm, if you look at why the women have less pension than the men, you also need to look at how many months of insurance the women have. [[New call of the abg. Gisela Worm.]] Women have 40 months of insurance less than men when they retire. And of course, less comes out if they have less insurance months because you send the women into retirement five years earlier. That's your policy! [[Abg. Gisela Worm: We don't send anyone!]] They ensure that women have fewer insurance months and that they are therefore less aware of them. That's your responsibility! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Go, go, go!]] [[Calls and counter-calls between Mr Krainer and Mr Strolz.]] Mr Glavischnig, who claimed that we had no proposals, I invite you to read about our system of flexipension with the sub-pension, which makes it easier to work longer. This can be achieved with the automatic compensation mechanism, which takes the pensions out of this polity bazaar between two old parties, and with a system that is not based on inventing new taxes – inheritance tax, wealth tax and so on – because there are taxes in this country already God knows enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] Since what we have to do is to see that there is a balance between revenue and expenditure – both in the budget as a whole and in the pension system itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8705	The next item is the report by Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8727	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I also believed that we could not hear any proposals from NEOS today, but thank God, Mr Loacker, has now spoken for a second time. Now we know what it's all about. It wasn't really something new about it; it's the Swedish model. I'll allow myself to go into it. However, I would like to say in general, as we are now at the end of this debate on the urgent question, that I believe that the way in which we are discussing here is already very good for improvement. It is about bringing in more materiality and getting away a little bit from the anger. I am actually very glad – and also a little surprised – that today a number of speakers have said that our pension system is not so bad. Yes, we have to make changes. To that end, we will take a proper political discourse to change something. Ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, be It's not bad, but the use of the names "schrottreif", "Tricks of the Tricks", something that's "get away" and discuss this kind of thing with each other by swinging anger for half an hour and making no concrete proposals, that's – I tell you – cheaper populism; and we certainly don't give it up. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Upper! Shame red!]] They complain of the high federal grant. They say there's too little money for education. You create the artificial divide to the boys by saying that there is too little money for boys and education because there is the federal grant that has been part of this pension system since the existence of this pension system. That's a stupid sense, that's a kohlrabi, because it's really about the fact that when you need funds to invest in education, you don't go here at the same time, cut in the pensions, take away the elderly, and then say that you can finance education with them. Think about other proposals that we can finance education and other things! There are a number of ideas about which one can discuss – including property tax – but do not pretend to be like cutting into pensions to invest more money in education! [[Abg. Stroll: Can you! Social security schemes!]] That certainly can't work. But you say that, and I'll tell you why. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Strolz! I've also listened to you and not called in. Get together and listen once! [[Abg. Strolz: Katzian! Incredible teaching...!]] They therefore come with the Swedish model. I'm telling you, it's minus 35 percent when we implement 1:1, what you're proposing. In order for someone, Mr. Loacker, to receive the same pension that he receives today at the age of 65, he must take your model up to 75. Lifetime work. That's a scandal you want and suggest! That really can't be your serious! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Little.]] Mr Strolz, if you want to raise the age of women's retirement, you have to look for other partners; that will not happen to us. [[Abg. Stroll: Don't burst!]] But I'll tell you the following: The time when the fists are in our pants, we still determine. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If you and your Haberers come with this neoliberal cock, then the fists are the most balling and against that we will always resist!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8849	Mr Katzian, do you not wish to reconsider the expression ‘Haberer’? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] – You have withdrawn it with the expression of regret. Thank you. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. [[Prolonged unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we were able to hold a civilized discussion – albeit controversially – over long distances. And we're going to bring that together with the last speaker. Can we get in touch with that? - Nice. [[Abg. Heinzl: Yes, eh!]] Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8905	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, when we talk about sustainable financing of the pension system – and this, of course, applies to NEOS – then we have to leave the church in the village. Let's take a look at the numbers: In the short and medium term, we have no problem with the financing of pensions. In 2015, the world looked better than planned. 2016 will be the same, and in the years 2017, 2018, 2019, the figures from the strategy report will be below the medium-term estimates of the Pension Commission last October. What does it look like in the long run? – In the long term, I will use the European Commission’s age report, the Ageing Report. This Ageing Report is a report that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs have worked on. I would now like to read aloud what is stated in the April 2015 stability programme: “In concrete terms, total public pension expenditure increases from 13.9% of GDP in 2013 to 14.7% of GDP in 2037 – due to the generation of baby booms in retirement – and then slightly decreases to 14.4% of GDP in 2060.” In other words, in 2060 our pension system will be more expensive than in 2013. I do not understand the excitement about the infinancing of the entire pension insurance system at all. I really know such debates enough. It is the privilege of old age that such debates could be followed for three and a half decades. I would like to ask you again: Leave the church in the village, we go to things with peace and expertise and see what we can do within the framework of the pension insurance system. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] By the way, these 0.5 percentage points of GDP are only a fraction of what we have already put in the hypo on tax resources. This is perhaps to be said in this context. However, with this 14.4 percent of GDP, 30 percent of the Austrian population will receive pension benefits in 2060. Today it's 20 percent. I do not want to say that we have no need for further development in the pension insurance system – we are sure to do so – but we need to develop it with measure and we must not spread uncertainty just as NEOS do by selling the pension insurance system as a scrap by saying, Mr Loacker, that the car is being driven to the wall at an increased pace. If I really understood you today, the Swedish pension system is supposed to come. I am truly grateful to Mr Wolfgang Katzian for pointing out the weaknesses of this pension system in Sweden. [[Abg. Loacker: He is your school...!]] I am truly grateful to Mr Katzian, because, first of all, more tax resources are necessary than in Austria – I put it together again – and secondly, a capitalised system is, of course, more fragile than a charging procedure. [[Abg. Stroll: It's a charging process!]] Look Take a look at the Riester-Rente in Germany and look at the German system! There is a system of poverty, Mr Strolz. That's the truth and that's what you want! [[It is in favour of Greens and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Loacker, I do not need 25 minutes to explain this. I will now explain our pension model to you in 15 seconds. It's based on two pillars. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Loacker and Mr Strolz.]] It has a base benefit in the amount of the compensation allowance – which is currently EUR 883 – and it has an employment pension depending on the contributions paid. That's so simple. This is a model that avoids poverty in old age. This is a fair and just model. Mr Loacker and Mr Strolz! I really ask you to stop the uncertainty of the people who are going to retire today and in the future. That's all the displeasure you're spreading here. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e8977	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Strolz, colleagues in the field of automatic retirement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, on the approximation of the age of women's pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on measures against women's pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schellhorn, ladies and gentlemen, on rehabilitation before retirement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek, colleagues, on the full four-year pension allowance for each child. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[18:37:42]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9081	We are now entering into a short debate. The short debate concerns the request made by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, reporting on application 1060/A(E) for the prohibition of glyphosate-based plant protection products in Austria, a period of up to 15 years. ==References====External links== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call Mr Pirklhuber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9118	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After this detailed pension debate, we come to a central theme of day-to-day policy and environmental policy, which we have been active for years, which is currently moving all over Europe and is destroying the entire Austrian population. I am referring to the question of the prohibition of toxic substances, of herbicides, which are potentially and probably carcinogenic. [[The speaker holds a green spray bottle with the impression Roundup in height.]] It is about glycosate-containing pesticides, it is about this brand name Roundup, it is about pesticides that Monsanto, the largest group in this field, has placed on the market and it is about the responsibility of the policy now to make the decision whether the authorisation of this plant poison, which was approved by the European Union in 2002, should be extended to another 15 years, until 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the problem with this poison? – It is used massively in genetic engineering and agriculture globally. It is the most widely used pesticides worldwide. In Austria, there are about 300 to 500 tonnes of active substance per year. It is also the most used in Austria. It threatens biodiversity and groundwater bodies. There are numerous studies that demonstrate that malformations in animal trials are the case, embryonic development disorders in various animals – frogs, chicks or rats. In the case of human cell lines, substantial damage and hormonal effects were clearly suspected and detected. Ladies and gentlemen, the special thing is that in the last one, two years, Glyphosate has become known as a residue not only in bread, not only in cereals, not only in German beer, but even in humans. A recent study has shown that in Germany of 2,000 test subjects, 75 percent had glyphosate even in the urine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not contaminated by the chemical industry. That is not allowed. It can't be acceptable that there's a free letter for the chemical lobby to actually contaminate us people by their poisons and expose us to dangers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, how does our Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible for the authorisation, argue? More than a year ago, we made this request for the ban on glyco-saturated plant protection products in Austria. And what does our Environment Minister say? What does the Minister of Agriculture say? He says he trusts the expert's judgment. I say quite honestly to you what he said today in the 'Mitagsjournal' is almost a half absolution. On the question of the journalist “What guidance has the AGES expert taken to Brussels?” – the AGES is the Agency for Health and Food Safety, which is sitting in the Standing Committee on the Food Chain, which today has discussed it at European level – the Minister is indeed replying: “This one has no instruction at all. This is a decision of the European Commission. There is also no need for an instruction.” Ladies and gentlemen, this is incredible: a minister who obviously had to know as a former official what the decision is like. I quote the EU Commissioner Margaritis Schinas, who says today: ‘To make the Commission responsible would not be fair.’ Finally, the experts from the Member States who would ultimately decide would not be the Commission." So it is quite clear that the experts and therefore also the Austrian experts decide on the approval. The Minister has so far failed to make a clear statement. Thank God, I say, there are environmental organizations. Thank God there is also the Greens at European level who have actively fought against a rapid approval today. And she could be prevented. How could it be prevented? – Four Member States have clearly opposed it. It was France, it was the Netherlands, it was Sweden, it was Italy. The bully on the scales, Germany, was included, which led to a shift in the decision. Ladies and gentlemen, the scandal is that the Austrian representation in this committee was against the postponement. The Austrian delegation there wanted it to be voted today. A vote today would mean that there is a risk of authorisation. This is an incredible affront against the interests of the Austrian population, the Austrian environmental movement and totally unacceptable. [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] From this point of view, I say to the Minister: This is not how it is done, Mr Rupprechter. You can't hide behind the experts. They have political responsibilities, and they also have to speak and answer to the National Council. I miss your backbone that you come to this deadline debate today and get a position. You would have the opportunity, but you unfortunately have to face political failure at all levels. [[Call the ÖVP: Overruns!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge we face is really great, because we have to change the Austrian position. If a minister does not shoulder the responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, then this National Council must assume responsibility, just as we have done on the issue of bee poison. We are prepared to take on this responsibility. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, to give this deadline request quickly, on the other hand, to come to a committee quickly, together with the experts of the AGES and the critical scientists – there are more than 95 who have written a letter to EFSA and clearly argued that at this point one should not agree to this approval. The critical voices of Europe are so loud. Above all, the World Health Organization, the WHO, has also noted one thing: This substance is very “likely carcinogenic”. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are any doubts, then the precautionary principle applies. The precautionary principle is a priority when it comes to the authorisation of pesticides in Europe. This is laid down by law. If there is this precautionary principle and if we take it seriously, then, from an Austrian point of view, we cannot extend this authorisation in any case, we cannot pronounce it. On the contrary: Of course, we must fight for a ban on glycosate in Austria and at European level. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is what we expect from both the SPÖ and the ÖVP. Of course, we expect this from Minister of Health Oberhauser. She wrote only one letter to Minister Rupprechter. I would also like to know what this letter says. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen. Your Member of the European Parliament, Mr Kadenbach, has written a letter to the Commission with our colleague, Martin Häusling, against approval and for a postponement of the decision. She voted against approval, as did Mr Ecker and Mr Unterrainer on press releases. I miss your willingness to make nails with our heads. If we put our weight on the scales as Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we can make a clear decision here in the Austrian National Council by May – the next permanent committee will take place, that we are also committed to ban glyphosate at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, with such a decision we would not be the first in Europe. The Dutch Parliament has already made such a decision last year. That is also the reason why the Presidency – which is currently the Netherlands – voted against the authorisation and advocated the postponement. Ladies and gentlemen, it burns the hat. We are required to bring the Minister in line. I say that stone and clear. I'm expecting a course correction. If this is not the case, Mr Rupprechter, I tell you from this point of view, then this is really a serious setback for Austrian environmental policy. As Minister for the Environment, you could have done nothing else than put the French Minister for the Environment and the Swedish Minister for the Environment, namely to put himself very firmly and clearly on the side of the environment and those concerned. Who is at risk for the potential cancer damage that can result from this pesticides? Ladies and gentlemen, follow our resolution. Let's go this way together! Let us fight together for a ban on glycosate, not only in Austria, but at EU level! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9180	Next, Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9211	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also have expected the relevant Minister for Agriculture and the Environment to attend today's debate on the proposal for a deadline. One thing is clear: Concerns against glyphosate must be taken seriously. The SPÖ takes these concerns seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] – Mrs Colleague, we have already proved this in the past, in so far as the use of glycosate in the sikkation in Austria has been banned on SPÖ initiative. What is the reason for the motion for a resolution or the deadline proposal being tabled today? – This is not because of the women’s day, but because on today’s day of the EU Trade Committee at expert level, the extension of the allocation of glyphosate in the EU should have been decided by 15 years. 15 years are a very long period of time – far too long as I mean. One cannot beat modern empirical findings into the wind. I could imagine a maximum of an extension by a year. I should like to mention that the representative of Austria in this EU expert committee had already announced that the representation would have abstained if the vote had been taken. This decision is correct in my opinion. It is also our strategic line not to agree. One thing is also clear – that has already been mentioned by my previous speaker – that the EU Trade Committee will again deal with any extension of glyphosate use in May of this year. This period of time must and should be used in the sense of people in Austria and in the sense of people in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, there are different expert opinions from experts on behalf of WHO and experts on behalf of EFSA. WHO experts have carried out a risk analysis and assessment and have concluded in this respect that glyphosate is “likely carcinogenic”. The experts on behalf of EFSA have carried out a corresponding analysis and evaluation based on the dose, i.e. the use of glyphosate, in the various preparations and have come to realize that there is no health hazard. These are two different clients and two different expert opinions. I therefore believe that the first step should be to compile at expert level within the WHO and EFSA in the next few weeks in order to create clear, comprehensible parameters to re-analysis of glyphosate. I would also like to ask the appropriate Minister for Agriculture and the Environment Rupprechter to take action at national level so that the experts of the Ministry of Agriculture also deal with the subject of glyphosate. It is simply about carrying out as far as possible a neutral investigation. One thing is clear: People need to know exactly what they are about, what risks to their own lives are posed by the use of glyphosate for their own health. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore call at international level and also at national level – the latter concerns the relevant agriculture minister – for the experts to put themselves on a table with NGOs and stakeholders, so that at last there is clarity about what is going on with glycosate. It is important, as has been said, that there is an understandablely transparent solution and investigation, so that people also know what they are about. People must not need higher education in order to be able to form their own personal opinion about the use or risk of glyphosate. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression at present that some lobbyists are only pursuing their own interests and are less concerned about people's concerns and needs. The health of the people – including the Austrians – must not be played and is not to be played. Let us also use the time to ensure that we reach a common solution at EU level by May this year. [[Abg. Brunner: Does that mean that the SPÖ will agree?]] My opinion is that, for the EU as a whole, for the European Union's common economic and living area, the Committee of Experts realizes that glyphosate should not be used further. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9270	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9292	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to the wishes expressed: You know that it is not common for a minister to be present in a short debate or on a request for a deadline. That is why it is also the case with Federal Minister Rupprechter that we conduct the discussion in this way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The urgency would have commanded it! Let's get him in the house!]] As mentioned by my previous speakers, the decision on the further authorisation of glycosate has been postponed by the competent Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed. In contrast to the allegations, there has been no vote today. On the basis of the current documents, Austria – you can read this – would also have abstained from the vote by the AGES, the Agency for Health and Nutritional Safety. If you look at the homepage of the ORF, you will see the comments of the AGES. With this, I think, a lot has already been said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You said it yourself – at the meeting, not at approval!]] What do I mean by that? – The authorisation process at European level is strictly regulated and is based on a technical decision. The emotions that have come up lately have the most different reasons. Of course, this is, on the one hand, the concern about health, but – I think so openly, we can also discuss here, in this context – in many ways, of course, also a monetary issue on the part of the corporations, but of course also on the sides of many lobbyists or NGOs. I recommend the article by Mrs Martina Salomon of 5. This year's March, which, I think, represents very vividly what it really is all about in this and also in many other questions, which are so emotionally guided. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the article up to date.]] I quote a short sentence from it: “Because NGOs need excitement so that the flow of donations does not tear off. ” [[Abg. Brunner: So that's probably the deepest drawer!]] That is exactly what shows us that a professional decision must remain and must not come to a policy-driven decision, on which lobby groups influence for a variety of reasons – therefore: out of the emotions, to the facts that we need to look at. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brunner and Mr Pirklhuber]] There is, of course, the question: Where do we stand in the current discussion, in the evaluation? What does that mean? It has already been mentioned that glyphosate, a non-selective leaf herbicide that is absorbed through the plants, has been subject to a comprehensive professional evaluation and approved in 2002. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Let's make a hearing out of it!]] Since then, the active substance, like other active substances, has been re-evaluated in terms of its risks to health and the environment and its effectiveness. If the extension is to take place, we must be aware that the authorisation process at European level is very strict in order to protect people, animals and the environment as best as possible. In this technical authorisation procedure, EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority and the scientific institutions of all Member States are involved – in Austria, as mentioned above, the AGES, the Agency for Health and Food Safety, in Germany the Federal Institute for Risk Assessment and many more – in order to pursue a science-based process absolutely meaningfully, because the decisions of this scope should not only be influenced externally, but really based on scientific bases and data. I am now with Mr Rossmann, who was here a few minutes ago and who said during the previous debate: Please don't worry about people. I would like to repeat that in this debate. We evaluate what science has really brought together by many independent institutes, researched them and actually put them together on the basis of facts. The experts will find the decision on the basis of these documents. She's supposed to take place in May. Let us take this step together, on a sound scientific basis! The experts will then decide on this level. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Here in the house!]] . You know, Mr Pirklhuber, how these processes are going, and I think we should stay there.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9407	Next, Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9429	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We've heard a lot about expert opinions. I've always heard that the expert is the best one who has the biggest, the most potent client behind him. That might be a possibility. I believe that the EU should definitely stand up for the use of this controversial plant protection product. The EU Commission will extend the authorisation to 15 years. I'll put it that way in the room. So since this is due this year, 2016, of course, we have the discussions – perhaps already too late again. We should have started earlier. We also had this with the bees until the EU gave us the regulation. We know that the so-called Glyphosate Task Force is a merger of 22 manufacturers and distributors who want this new registration. We know that this is a billion-dollar business in space. We also now know that on the one hand we have the WHO that has said that there are cancer-promoting substances in it. On the other hand, the EFSA, which then says that it can agree. However, there are also three experts, three studies that are not known to anyone, and only the clients have the right to issue them. Who are the clients? – This is a suspicion – I don’t know – that they say: The producers have also applied for these studies. If that's the case, then, I have to say, you're gonna be cruel. That we have heard that only experts, and not politics, decide that, I am worried again. Who are these experts? – Austria is allowed to set six like each country, Austria will set six. We have just heard about these experts what they think, but I have already read in press articles that they will agree to it on and for themselves, with some deviations. But since glyphosate is not only controversial, but is also suspected of being carcinogenic, I would like to see it more balanced. On the one hand, we have the health risk; undoubtedly right, say one person who asks, as in agriculture, where we have alternatives. We know that glyphosate is used not only in parks and other places in gardens, but also in wine-growing and fruit-growing. We know that farmers actually need it in potatoes and in cereals. We know that glyphosate is hidden in a hundred different plant protection products. The question of how this affects groundwater and surface water cannot actually be answered by the so-called experts, not to date. Another story is the fact that embryonic malformations, infertility, or cell nucleus damage are combined with them. As with bees, it remains open when politics reacts, when it is commissioned to develop plant protection products that alternatively do not harm farmers, because if we ban glyphosate today, some cultures will enter. Then what do we do with it? – We don't want to do that either, we don't want to cause a farmer's death. On the other hand, you have to ask: Where are the alternatives?, and: Does it always have to come so far that anything happens that is ordered by the EU, whether this or beyond the Jordan? - No, we have to act on our own. Nearly a hundred researchers then weathered, and all these expertises have said that glyphosate is harmful. That's right, of course. Who will continue to deal with these expertises? - No one knows. They're going to run in the sand. In Austria, we definitely have an extremely serious problem, on the one hand, with groundwater – I just think that you didn't feel as excited about the South Styria as it was when it was said that you found glyphosate in the beer; that was the bigger insurrection – on the other hand, with the diet. Perhaps just a few figures from the Green Report: In 2011, 140,000 tonnes of pesticides were brought to the fields of Europe; in Austria 10 728 tonnes were exported and 11 325 tonnes were exported in 2014. Man is what he eats! In that sense, we should pay attention to health, as we really act quickly and find a good solution, not just like any other product. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9487	Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9508	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! It is my concern once again to reject Mr Höfinger's support for environmental protection organisations; they are panicking in order to make donations. [[Abg. Hoefinger: That wasn't an injunction! That was an article...!]] The environmental protection organisations owe the use and the information... [[Abg. Fekter: Not a single project! Greenpeace does only collect donations!]] – So Greenpeace and other environmental protection organisations owe a lot to what we have achieved in this country and also at EU level on environmental performance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm going to reject this allegation decided back. [[Abg. Kogler: The ÖVP is the best proof that it always needs educational campaigns!]] – Exactly: for example, advertisements from the chemical industry in the “farmer newspaper” – perhaps you can also display this transparently. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Who pays it at all?]] Where we have been in the chemical industry: What is it about in this debate? - To glyphosate. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What's that? - A poison! This is a poison that is used to combat fornication. Why has this whole debate come about? – The WHO announced a year ago that this poison is most likely carcinogenic. Responsible politicians then act in accordance with the precautionary principle, and the precautionary principle means: in doubt for the health of people and the environment. My colleague Wolfgang Pirklhuber has taken this precautionary principle seriously and has therefore made an application almost a year ago to introduce a ban on this poison. The debate has been refused here in Parliament. The request was postponed x-fold, as we know it. Now it was an issue at EU level, and this was postponed there yesterday. There was no vote on the matter, Mr Höfinger was right, but there was a vote on the postponement. If there had been a vote on the content, Austria would have agreed. But what is Austria doing in the vote on the postponement? – Abstention – so not even mumm enough to agree to a delay as you do here in the house constantly! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Here you are the World Retirement Champions – and in Brussels, where the meaning would have made, you don't even have enough mumm to do it! [[Abg. Kogler: Is even worse than with us!]] Many people in Austria, however, have the mumm to take action against this poison. It is also my concern to thank me, namely civil society, environmental protection organisations, including many municipal councils, mayors and mayors. Many green community groups have launched initiatives that no longer use these poisons in their community, and, also in cooperation with colleagues there from SPÖ or the ÖVP, have actually achieved that these poisons are no longer used in the communities. The Austrian Federal Government is acting differently, and now it says: Well, let's wait, let's see! This is to be decided on the basis of the experts. Yes, I believe that we should decide a lot more decisions in this House on the basis of expert opinions! For example, the issue of climate protection comes to my mind. There is the expert opinion and the opinion of science quite clearly, but unfortunately the decisions in this House look different. So I hope we take it with us that this will also change in the future. However, it is not possible for us to shift politicians' responsibilities to experts. It is once again a political decision, which experts are familiar with, which one hears. If this is the case now, I am looking forward to the fact that, through the profit of time, we also have the opportunity to invite experts to this House, to discuss in Hears, whether in the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Environment or wherever, and then on the basis of these expert hearings, but also to make decisions – on the basis of our political responsibility, in accordance with the precautionary principle. If the issue is actually taken seriously, I also expect an approval of our present deadline proposal, which only means that we will deal with it within a certain period of time and then decide on it. The Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is unfortunately going through this; as he said, he does not even have the mum to agree to an adjournment. The opportunity he gives us with this is that we can act as Parliament. If the Minister does not act, it is also our obligation as Parliament to act – on hearings, on the invitation of experts – and then to make decisions. However, if the Minister for the Environment is in the process of environmental protection, this also shows quite clearly: Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9645	Mr Pock has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9667	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Glyphosate is the subject, and a deadline request from the Greens. I would first like to refer to the content of the request and then to the deadline. In terms of content, it is requested that there should be a re-evaluation of glyphosate and a ban in Austria, and that a ban should be imposed within the European Union. I can win a lot of revaluation. If new studies are to come out, which do not exclude the risk of health, we must actually take appropriate steps both at the expert level and in Parliament. However, what I cannot understand in the form is that, while we are carrying out this re-evaluation, we should at the same time issue a complete ban in Austria. There are several reasons for this: The first reason is that a large number of studies have been presented since the 1970s, saying: It's safe from health. There are also a number of studies by the EFSA and the German Ministry that say it is safe for health. [[Abg. Brunner: But they are contradicted...!]] On the other hand – and this is the more weighty argument for me – there is no substitute, so there is no alternative for farmers and farmers that they actually use a means – outside organic farming – which is similarly less harmful to health. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] Therefore, from my point of view, it would be the next step to discuss this whole thing in Parliament and at the expert level and to look more closely at the consequences before the whole thing is actually overcrowded. The second point, which I believe is important, is that of setting deadlines. We have heard today that there has actually been a delay in the Council at European level. That is to say, I would like to ask the point that, in Austria, we are having a discussion – a content discussion about a ban, yes or no – as long as we do not know the European regulation. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But the Austrian position on the European level...!]] In my view, therefore, it would be right first to wait for the results in Europe and then to conduct the discourse in the Austrian Parliament. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: If the Minister does nothing...! ... if the Minister does not want to shoulder his responsibility!]] However, what I clearly lack, Mr Pirklhuber, is another reference – and you could have incorporated this into your speeches today, both for agriculture and the environment – namely: Two weeks ago, the IPBES Forum took place in Malaysia, on which it was found that between € 220 and 530 billion of damage per year occurs when the pollinators, i.e. bees, wasps, moths, beetles and so on, are under appropriate threat. That's hundreds of billions of euros, and most of them in Europe. We should also include this discussion in this issue, because we can not only talk about people, but we must also talk about biodiversity and animals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9745	The next speaker is Mr Steinbichler, who is already on the way to the speaker's desk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9778	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciate spectators in front of the televisions! It is a very serious issue that we are discussing today! I would like to thank Mr Pirklhuber for this deadline request, and I think he is right in saying that Minister Rupprechter will be a victim of his own experts. By the way, I am in favour of re-baptizing the AGES, the Food Safety Agency, when it is ready to agree, without listening to any other opinion, to ARGES, because we have to be able to rely on them, because it is the food testing body! If we want – Mr Pirklhuber and Mrs Brunner have taken this spray bottle with us for the house garden – that the issue is finally being discussed properly, we need to know that this means is used in public transport facilities, from the ASFINAG to the ÖBB – of course, because we have to keep everything weed-free. [[the speaker shall keep a can of plant protection products up to date]] But this is not the main problem on this issue at all, and that is why I put this panel in front of it. [[The speaker points to a bar chart where a strongly rising trend can be seen.]] These are the increases in the production of glyphosate in the last five years: explosion-like increases! Interestingly, these increases are closely related to the production of palm oil. In the last ten years, the palm oil cultivation area has grown – I've seen it in In the course of the refugee discussion already said – doubled! Unheard of areas Rainforests are rubbed, whole animal species are wiped out. And now the tragedy comes: We are not only discussing the use of glyphosate in nature here – no, ladies and gentlemen, the consumers get it done every day! [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, sure!]] This palm oil is then transported 10,000 kilometers away and finally combined into a quality in Poland, better than butter... – Yes, Mrs. Fekter, and I'll show you so often until you know what it's all about. [[Abg. Fekter: We already know that...!]] Otherwise we get so far as your butchery is, that all of a sudden the Turks are inside instead of the Austrians. I don't want that! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We want domestic products. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] - With your neighbor! This is exactly the problem if you do not recognize that if you act wrong, if you are lobbying and do not see where palm oil is directly passed on to consumers everywhere. The “Kronen Zeitung” writes on Sunday that at 99.7 percent of the German glyphosate was found in the urine. Every fat that is used liquid – of course, who takes a solid in the modern household, we take it as liquid! – contains palm oil with glycosate. Here is a product of a farm cooperative – general importer: a farm cooperative, very close to the Traunstein – from Belgium, with palm oil and glycosate! [[The speaker shall hold a spray box in which impact foam is contained, in height]] – And then we lament that just as this curve rises, the farms close, the farms in Austria stop because they are replaced. [[the speaker turns the graph around, and a diagram with rising columns comes to the fore]] Mr Schultes, that would be exactly the subject for you. Actually, I am very glad that this debate is taking place today. Why? – Let us also discuss the question of liability, President Auer. Who is responsible for the use of glyphosate? Is it the scientists? Are they the 91 pharmaceutical companies that produce it? Is it the dealers? Is it the chambers that advise? The phytosanitary departments that say that you can use this without any thought? Or is it the stupid user – excuse me if I say so! – whether consumers, industry, economy, or the budget or agriculture that pays for it? That's the cracking point, and I think we need a hearing. We need to work together with the Consumer Protection Committee on the Environment, the Agriculture Committee and the Health Committee to develop expertise as it has already been called for. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a key issue for you that we protect consumers! As a farmer, I demand and claim that we are lawyers for healthy food, that we are the partners for consumers – and that is a hundred percent! – to which we guarantee that we offer decent, healthy, regionally produced foods and that they can enjoy them. That is the pleasure country of Austria, that is the taste of the home country, and we must bring it together! It must not be label-difference, but it must be honest and real! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why we also need to deal with this often despised quality seal law. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Thank you, Mr President; I come to the conclusion. Today’s “Kronen Zeitung” shows where this leads. California wants to ban glyphosat, so we know how dangerous it is, even if it is tried to get over it. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There too we need a clear line, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we also need a survey on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9892	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the request made by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, colleagues, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, reporting on application 1060/A(E) for a ban on glyphosate-based plant protection products in Austria, a period of up to 15 years. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – That is rejected. Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9926	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, the Consumer Protection Committee for reporting on application 1063/A(E) concerning the prohibition of glyphosate-containing plant protection products in Austria for a period of up to 15 years. ==References====External links== [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a lot of time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today I still have a lot of time. Please don't call me during the vote! I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Committee for Reporting on Request 1064/A(E) concerning the prohibition of glyphosate-based plant protection products in Austria, a period of up to 15 years. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – That is rejected. [[19:18:40]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-03-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00115_d8e9986	I am still announcing that the 1584/A(E) to 1591/A applications were tabled at today's meeting. A meeting of the National Council will be held on business communications and allocations. I call them before 7.20 p.m., which is immediately after this sitting. This meeting is closed.
