ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3533	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning and open the 144. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 142 and 143. Meeting of 13. September 2016 are in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. The Members of Parliament have been reported to be prevented from taking part in the debate. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3564	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: Federal Chancellor Mag. The core is the Deputy Chancellor Dr. Mitterlehner, the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs In short, the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Karmasin, the Federal Minister for the Interior Mag. Sobotka is represented by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Brandstetter and the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Mag. Lightenfried is represented by the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Stöger. I announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will forward this session live in full length. [[09:07:33]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3618	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘ORF into 21. 19th century: Without party politics. Without GIS. With Public Value Production.” The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Alm in word. – I give you this and make sure that your speaking time is up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3645	I welcome you, Minister. Dear High House! It is about the ORF, which is about the ORF in connection with a media promotion, which was also discussed on Monday at the invitation of the Minister at the Federal Chancellor's Office at a survey, because it was discussed what media promotion could look like. As part of this survey, many correct things have been said. There is a good new approach to this media promotion: Journalism is being promoted, the industry is supposed to control itself within the framework of this promotion, and this funding is to be distributed in a media-independent manner – all of which are right things. The Focusing on producing journalistic added value or public added value or public value is actually also exactly the media policy task that we have in the context of funding. However, what we have not talked about or what has not been talked about in this survey is the ORF. Even if it is distributed in double, triple, quadruple height, media funding is Newly only about 5 percent of what the ORF can obtain from the broadcasting fee every year. That is, we have here a huge player in the market, which is not considered in the context of media promotion. However, if you are pursuing the logic of Mr. Minister, then the ORF must, of course, be subject to the same regime and should only be promoted within the framework of this public-value content production, because what applies to the rest of the media, of course, must also apply to a public media house. If the focus is on content, please also at ORF. In particular, if you say that this promotion is media-independent, you cannot, of course, exclude the ORF. However, the ORF pursues a completely different, own logic with its fees. He collects these fees, of course also produces public value, which we do not even criticise, but with a share of the fees that are not used for this public value content production, of course other program is financed. You know that: Serial and sports rights, Champions-League rights and so on. That is, the ORF has more money at its disposal than it needs to produce public value, and if you follow your model, then of course there would be to reduce. The same applies, of course, to the “Wiener Zeitung. ” The ORF also has an increased internal pressure and external pressure towards change, regardless of the logic that I believe it would have to subject itself to. First of all, at internal pressure, where the ORF should change – and we are talking about change here! It is not about destroying the ORF in any form, or about hacking it off arms or legs, but about making it fit for the future. As regards the internal need for change: If we look at linear TV and media-based behaviour of consumers, then in ten to 15 years no one will watch the TV as it happened ten or 20 years ago, that is, get home, look at three episodes “The Big Bang Theory” in a row and then take another 5 minutes ZIB FLASH. – It just won't play it anymore. Media consumption is seen to be non-linear, i.e. one accesses individual content shared by social media or comes on another way to consumers, but not by seeing linearly remote. However, the ORF defines itself via this linear TV, since it was designed as a media infrastructure more than half a century ago, so that we do something like television in common. But now his task is to produce public value, and no longer to provide this infrastructure, which is at least as well covered by the private market. But if you want to give the ORF the opportunity to convert yourself, you have to do the same. At the moment, he does not find the framework conditions to take the path to using modern communication instruments, to develop modern media itself – I speak of mobile applications, I speak of apps, of social media et cetera, et cetera. Thus, the ORF is limited, has to be freed and should not go the way to take into account the fragmentation of the media landscape, that it itself creates more and more supply and goes into the widest range, that it should instead deepen itself and focus on the production of public-law content. This is, as it were, the internal pressure to which the ORF is exposed. On the other hand, the external pressure to which the ORF is now exposed and, if there is nothing to do with fees, will be increasingly exposed. The ORF is politically and economically distorting. This is a fact that I hope nobody will abdicate here. We have seen the political distortion of the market in the last few weeks or in the last two months in the election of the new Director-General and in the appointment of the new Directors. We demand nothing more here than the party political and political independence of the ORF by means of a body reform. It is not so difficult to achieve that. There's a board of foundations that's now run by friends. One could simply occupy this Stiftungsrat independent of parties, reduce it, lean on the model of the ORF to that of an AG – with a Supervisory Board – while ensuring that party policy is largely maintained. Of course, such small things as the hearing law of the national leaders are also abolished. The economic distortion that the ORF carries in the market, that it is the largest media house in the country with around 1 billion euros, is, I think, something that will be taken away without much contradiction. Because of its size, it automatically leads to a market distortion position. With approximately €600 million per year, he will spend a large part of his turnover on fees and will also take out up up to a third of the money from the advertising market. If we were to design a state-owned media house today – this idea doesn't come to anyone at all – then you wouldn't be designing something like the ORF in its present form, but it's always a good reality check to ask yourself this question: Do we need a state media house, and what is this state media house supposed to do? – It used to be common television, today it is the production of public value. By the way, that's what science says. Professor Karmasin believes that the media market is one that is very typical of market failures. You can accept this statement on the one hand, but of course you can also question it yourself and challenge it. The question is: Is it not possible for a media market without media promotion? – We do not want to go that far, but we accept this work hypothesis, which also serves as the basis for media promotion in many other European countries, and we simply work with it. We say: If we already put money in this market, then he should deliver what we need for the democratic discourse as a basis, that is, public-law added value, with emphasis on added value, which it is claimed to be unable to produce privately. If the ORF now says he needs more fees and this is not an increase at all, but a valorization, then unfortunately I have to say that the ORF is not entirely true, because if we look at the development of the ORF fees over the past ten years, then we see that the part that the ORF receives is rising – these are the red bars. [[a bar chart with the heading “Development Fees 2006-2016” referring to the speaker’s desk]] The yellow part above, which looks a bit like palm oil, does not flow to the ORF from the GIS fee. The said lower part in red is subject to an increase of about 12 percent in the last five years and about 30 percent in the last ten years. This is clear about the Inflation. That is, by increasing the population and by increasing the number of payers, the revenue of the ORF from the fees is automatically evaluated. It is therefore not an adjustment to inflation, but a de facto increase which the ORF will demand here in November or December. To finance with this money program, which serves to increase the reach, means nothing but the people who pay it, even to want to be forced to see this program so that they are confronted with public value – and we believe that is the wrong way. This knowledge is also matured, I take from the survey. So ORF: Focus on content with added value, but nothing else. To this end, we need to transform the ORF structurally from a provider of infrastructure to a provider of public value, which is refinanced by media promotion, which obviously needs to be dramatically increased in this context. Advertising revenue must be lost as well as broadcasting charges. The aim is not to kill the ORF, I repeat that again, but to convert it from the infrastructure provider to the content provider. The whole thing will happen in the future without GIS and without any party policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3746	For a preliminary opinion, Mr Mag. Drozda on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3767	She won't. Madam President, I should like to thank you for your High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the opportunity to make some basic comments on the media situation and media policy. I would like to sum up this in six points. The first point is a commitment to public broadcasting within the dual system. The model of public-law broadcasting is an essential part of the European democracy model. In countries such as Sweden, Finland, Norway, Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands or Switzerland, public broadcasting is, of course, an essential pillar of democracy, as in Austria. The public service broadcasting institution is accountable to public authorities, courts and the public. Secondly, on the legal situation: I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and recall some aspects that seem natural, but are only natural here with us, because the institution of public broadcasting – the ORF – is controlled only here and not in the other European countries I have mentioned, in a density and to an extent that is unique in Europe. The control is carried out by a constitutionally-responsible authority, the KommAustria, consisting of highly qualified lawyers. This goes far beyond the situation in Germany, where public broadcasting is controlled only by the internal broadcasting councils of ARD and ZDF. Of course, the ORF is also controlled by the Foundation Council and also by the Court of Auditors in addition to administrative control. Control in Austria includes, for example, the regulation on advertising, separation of advertising and editorial content and, above all, compliance with the objectivity challenge. In particular, compliance with the public service contract is subject to strict judicial control, as well as the economic conduct of the company. Thirdly, on the market position of the ORF: The ORF is obviously one of the most successful European media companies. The market shares in TV and radio are at the top of the European comparison, also online is the ORF number one. With its media offers, the ORF achieves 92 percent of all Austrians every day, while the market shares on television are around 32,5 percent. Thus, the ORF is in fifth place of the public-law channels and by almost 10 percent above the Europe-wide median of comparable channels. With the radio, the picture is even more impressive. With the radio, the ORF is third in the public and thus more than double above the Europe-wide median. The ORF employs 3 370 people, almost 1,900 journalists. In the last few weeks, as Mr Alm has already reported, I have prepared myself thoroughly in the context of the media survey. The entire printing media sector in Austria comprises about 2,000 journalists. That is to say, the ORF has the dimension of the entire printing sector to the extent of the busy journalists. A fourth aspect is important to me, and this is important to me, because I am also responsible for art and culture, and I consider it a crucial part of the public value. To highlight is the really very good offer the ORF has on Ö1, ORF III, 3sat, FM4. The whole is rounded off by the activities of the radio symphony orchestra. Overall, the ORF offers important cultural platforms. The investments in the film industry alone amount to around €100 million, and I could now read to you a long list of prices, the Emmys, Oscars, Golden Palms that came from co-productions. In any case, because you, colleague Alm, have addressed the public value aspects, it is fact that the public value program performance of the ORF can only reach a broad audience within the framework of a target group adequate programming. That's, I think, obvious. Besides information and culture, sports and entertainment offers are also part of a consistent public-law programme. I would like to draw up a fifth aspect, and that is the international aspect. I held it at the poll on Monday and I would like to repeat it here again in this circle: When the sharks surround a fish swarm, it makes no sense evolutionaryly when the prey fish first cannibalize themselves. What I mean by: It is not about ORF against private, television against newspapers, it is about how the Austrian media landscape is positioning itself in global, European and digital competition and thus securing its survival. The greatest threats to the independent Austrian media landscape are not based on the individual domestic providers, but on those platforms that do not make a distinction between their own and their own content either in terms of content or in commercial terms, so do not create traffic with their own performance and achieve revenues and thus ultimately profits. They come from those who extract content without a fair return or are provided free of charge in the worst case. I would therefore really like to appeal once again to all media players when it comes to the necessary changes to the rules at European and international level. Sixth and final: Of course, the commitment to public broadcasting within the framework of the dual system must not be a free letter on structural conservation. On this point I would like to say in principle: It was and is more than ever the task of democracy to ensure that editorialally designed media as producers of the public receive a positive survival prognosis, either with regulation, as happens in the field of electronic media, or with promotions, as is now the case in the press and in the private sector. As Karmasin said last Monday, it is about the infrastructure of democracy. And this infrastructure of democracy is sufficient and conventional to finance. However, the fundamental commitment to the importance of public-law broadcasting under the dual system does not exclude a positioning in international competition and the following requirements for adaptation and change at the ORF, nor should it be a free letter on the conservation of structures. Economics must be part of the strategy of action and guidelines for action for public broadcasting. And because I was asked several times, I would like to repeat this here in the House: I am opposed to discussions on increases in fees, even if I do not have direct and direct control. That is why I reject the fact that I am truly convinced that we have to deal in depth with the question of financing public broadcasting – and I have to deal with my colleague Alm – in such a way that we are making the choices today that meet the challenges of the coming years. And I see three fundamental and essential questions in the context of the future of the ORF: First: What does the company want and needs from a public-law station? How does the public service contract define itself? Secondly, How does such a transmitter position itself in international competition, taking into account different financing columns? And thirdly, What is the structure of a contemporary body, taking into account the necessary democratic legitimacy? We need new answers to these questions in a perspective, in a situation of media convergence. I will invite you to another survey in spring of next year, to which we will invite all the key stakeholders and discuss these three essential questions with them. The results should be the basis for any renewal of the ORF law.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3871	Thank you, Minister of State. I would draw attention to the fact that all other participants in the debate have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Mr Cap has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e3899	Madam President. High house! I have to say that the Niko Alm, whom I very much appreciate in itself, has overshadowed the events in the last few weeks. I think the suggestion that the ORF would have been packed in a party political way was rejected only by the consensus that was found in the appointment of the directors, in which everyone was involved: the Free Foundation Council Steger, the Green Foundation Councillor Embacher, the NEOS Foundation Council Haselsteiner, two of the ÖVP, Vorarlberg and Tirol – there were two reservations from the ÖVP; only the Zach group was there something different – and, of course, the Social Democratic Foundation Councils and all the others. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ, NEOS and Greens]] And now I tell you, it is actually in our interest that we agree if even a newspaper such as the “Press” clearly determines, for example, the merchant director who has been working in the company for decades – that is, a decision after qualification – he, Andreas Nadler, “is considered as an expert who has the ORF finances in the small finger – and as politically independent.” Monika self-sperger is described as “politically not declared” – she will be responsible for the radio sector and will continue to be responsible for FM4. Or Kathrin Zechner: You can't say that it's politically achievable somewhere. [[Lively cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] So she'll be here as a specialist... – Well, if she's not in a beating connection, I'll give you the right. That's right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But otherwise, I do not think it is politically achievable either. There has been a broad majority in favour, and I think that is the case. [[Abg. Riddler: ridiculous!]] – You must say this to the Tyrolean and Vorarlberg Foundation Councils of the ÖVP, the word “laughing”, because they have also agreed. [[Abg. No, you're ridiculous!]] So what's this about? – This is about becoming aware of where the challenges of time are. And the challenges of time are that we have to be interested in the fact that the ORF is a strong public-law channel within the framework of a concept of media policy – with press promotion – with which we guarantee diversity and where there is no end, just as in the media survey it was partially heard from a speaker there, there is only more RTL and nothing else. You won't be there any more, the laughs. [[towards FPÖ]] Not even the laughter comes from you there. And I would like to tell you that this cannot be in our interest. It's about the... [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: How do you know?]] – If you look at the channels, you know. There are very different people laughing. – If you look at this, then I am in favour of preserving something like an Austrian cultural identity, that at a time when multinational corporations are focusing more and more power on media groups in their hands – and now we should be able to march together again – we must ensure that they do not also come to a monopoly situation in Austria. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Not so nationalistic! That's almost revanchist and chauvinistic!]] They take off over €500 million from the advertising windows. The ORF never has that much. He has a combination of fees and advertising revenue, and that's good. And he also has a high audience approach, as we were able to see again at the turn-on rates. By the way, the fees are lower than in Germany. What remains of the ORF, after deduction of everything we know, is just over €16 a month. You have to make this clear. We can change everything! We can question all of this. But fact is that we don't want to make the ORF with its high audience approach and as part of Austrian core identity to become a German culturalimperialist delegate – or, in addition, by other multinational corporations. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So if I look at the series in the ORF, it seems to me, that's already happening!]] Since we all discuss about Google, Facebook, we discuss the whole RTL complex and so on. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: In the children’s shows everything tastes good!]] And I tell you, of course, you also need a entertainment aspect and you need the sports aspect, and that's something the audience also wants. A concept that leads to the demolition of the ORF, where diligent employees make daily efforts, and which would be a blow to the face of the audience, cannot be something that is wanted here. And that's why I think you should take note of this. It should also be noted that the 2001 Schüssel reform was a good reform, that the 35s number in the Foundation Council is representative of the fact that it entails more competences for the Directorate-General. [[Call the FPÖ: For the SPÖ and the ÖVP already!]] This was well thought out, and that, I must say, was at least also a contribution that led to the ORF being more capable of action and having a structure with which it is more competitive and can be very well and very good in international comparison with the other public-laws. You should actually try not to limit party-political motivation, but you should try to participate in the fortification of a piece of Austrian cultural identity.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4054	Next word reported: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4076	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are always pleased when the colleagues from the Social Democracy praise the years of government of Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel. I think that is justified. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. New builder.]] You're perfectly right, colleague Dr. Cap, those were good years for Austria. And I think it is nice that this is also slowly recognised by the colleagues of Social Democracy. When we discuss media policy and the reform measures of the ORF, I think we are doing so, too – I think, the “Falter” referred to it in an article this week – in the sense of Jean-Jacques Rousseaus, who has, so to speak, adopted the media as the fourth state power, in addition to the legislative, executive and jurisdiction – the media as critical information for citizens in order to provide them with an appropriate choice. However, it is also necessary that we maintain this plurality in the media and that we are very critical when it comes to questions of monopoly. In order to achieve this, ladies and gentlemen, we must also ensure a certain balance, and I believe that many points raised by Mr Alm are correct. As independent as the Foundation Councils are, Mr Alm, you can only see the voting behaviour of your Foundation Council, which is always voting against your political positions, which is quite interesting, which is against reform measures, the increase in fees is speaking, that is quite interesting. [[Abg. Strolz: He left the meeting in protest, please!]] He represents a different position than the NEOS represented here. I and us are actually concerned with arms equality in the media landscape. We believe that this is necessary and important, regardless of whether it is about funding or whether it concerns the issue of fees. And if you re-debate on media promotion, then of course we are also in demand here. The Federal Minister has organised a survey on the subject; I think that we also need to have a parliamentary discussion here. On the one hand, the government has proposals, but I believe that we Parliamentarians should also make more proposals here and perhaps put in place an appropriate format here in the House to discuss these issues. A media promotion New must cover all areas, including the ORF, of course the private channels, print media, the digital area and, of course, the whole spectrum of regionality. What will not go from our point of view is a more of the same. A little bit you already get the impression that it should go in this direction. It has been referred to by Mr Cap, there was a candidate of Richard Grasl against the current Director-General, a candidate in the sense of a reform of the ORF with a wealth of, as I have my very interesting reform proposals, excellent reform proposals. One of the completely undisputed, great media managers from Austria, Gerhard Seiler, the SPÖ's almost party chairman, has expressly supported and welcomed all these proposals. So I think they can't have been that bad. By the way: Haselsteiner also voted against him, so he was not quite on the reformable side in the sense of NEOS. If we look at the ORF's financial situation now, we already note that in the next few years there will be an alarming financial gap, which will not be closed by higher fees. I would like to say that clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I am extremely grateful to the Federal Minister for his clear commitment, also to the statement you made, Minister of State, that the influence of politics here may be too low. – After that, we will have to consider whether a public-law body such as the ORF can, as it were, increase an ORF tax. We probably need to think about whether we do not have to inculcate legislation. So a more of the same won't go. We will need to discuss structural reforms in the ORF. The question arises whether it makes sense for a billion-dollar company to operate by a sole manager. This does not even make Mr. Hazelsteiner in his own company that he decides things on his own. So we want to see reforms here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: We want to see the grass, in truth!]] We will accompany reforms positively and constructively. But we also want arms equality among the media, because the plurality is, I think, crucial, it is an essential element for our democratic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4137	Next, Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4159	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear fee payers! Dear tax payer! The NEOS have put this issue on the agenda today, but it is not always a good idea, Mr Alm. As usual, the NEOS act on new and fresh, pretending to reinvent the world, but ultimately only serve old structures, as their board of trustees and financier Hans Peter Haselsteiner did in the ORF. But let us highlight the unworthy spectacle of this Federal Government about the appointment of the Director-General and the Central Directors: Yes, my rulings of ÖVP and SPÖ, do you think the ORF belongs to you? Do you think the ORF belongs to you personally? Does he belong to you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schools.]] – Well, the ÖVP belongs to the ORF! If I hear that war is being said within the government when it comes to the appointment of the Director-General and the Central Director's Tower, then it must happen to you as if you were putting this claim in the ORF. Or is it perhaps this much-conjured New Deal that this new Federal Government has proclaimed? But let's talk about depoliticization: Depolitikierung – this word is in connection with the ORF, I think, as old as the ORF. But what is politics, and what does politics mean? – Politics wants and is no more than the regulation of people's living together. When I look at the ORF and its legal composition, I notice that it has been a foundation since 2001, a public law foundation, and at a foundation I do not want to talk about owners but rather about beneficiaries. Let us see who these beneficiaries are! These beneficiaries are the Austrians, so we must try to ensure that the real democratically legitimate representation of the Austrians also controls the ORF and has something to say in the ORF. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And who is the real democratically legitimate representation of the Austrians? – Yes, my lords, these are you! You and us, Parliament, are the real, democratically legitimate representation, and that is why it is our proposal, § 20 para. 1 Z 3 ORF law – for insiders – to change the order by the Federal Government to an order by Parliament in order not to be repeated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, however, this house sounds almost as if the government ate cream, but perhaps it's about more than just the Austrian Alpine Association today. A short word on the public service contract: Higher GIS fees and the GIS fee at all will certainly not exist with us. It has been said many times, and I think Director-General Wrabetz probably can't hear it again, perhaps he changes his direction once: American blockbuster and series, three times “The Big Bang Theory” in the afternoon, this does not correspond to the public order. And if I take the TV program to hand, I often wonder if it might not have failed to exchange servusTV against the ORF. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Freely after a few cabaretists, who in the ORF often give things for the best, which we don't like liberals, because they do not comply with the principle of objectivity, but which I still want to quote here: [[Abg. Matznetter:... Objectivity!]] The ORF will have to come up with more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4280	Next, Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4302	Madam President. Federal Minister! In recent years the debate has repeatedly been heard about forced fees in the ORF. Mr Strache and the FPÖ have been doing this for years, as Mr Lugar of the Stronach team was of course not far from it and has joined. In these two parties, it was not surprising, for if one considers that one does not need a public-law broadcasting, instead with formats such as FPÖ-TV, “uncensored.at” and actually puts it in such a way that as few as possible have a variety of media, but with such new media tries to disseminate one-dimensional information that – no matter what party it operates – can certainly have no objectivity character, then one understands why it makes sense to want to destroy a public-law broadcasting. Mr Lugar can now be philosophized, but Mr Lugar is not far from what Mr Strache says. I have been listening to the term "compulsory charges" for a few days; it is interesting that, if you have listened to Mr Alm, he has not been brought here, since it was more academic. At yesterday's press conference: Stroll and alm bet against the forced fees in the ORF. I find that interesting, because if you compare it – Niko Alm has tried it, but he has left away a lot of things – then you ask the question: Is there a comparable Western democracy in which there is no such form of fee financing for public broadcasting? Switzerland, Germany, the Scandinavian countries, all comparable European countries have a similar system. Switzerland has revenues of €1.2 billion, about the double of Austria. [[Abg. New builder: Is also a better program!]] In Germany, fees amount to over €8 billion; 8 billion compared to €600 million in Austria – that is, even in absolute figures, more revenue per capita in Germany than in Austria, but not nine or ten times as many transmitters. Then you can ask the question: Can there be a public radio without fee financing? – He did not present the concept presented by Mr Alm medial; perhaps I can try to present it more simply – I hope I understood it correctly, it is sometimes not quite that simple –: Apparently, the ORF is dissolved as a transmitter, which is no longer available. The editorial staff will continue to be financed through media funding, and what they produce they can offer on the free market and see if it will then be sent. – I think I presented it relatively correctly, at least I understood it that way. Then you can say and write on it: Let us abolish public broadcasting, because that will be the result. And then I look at Austria in a competitive situation with Germany, in which there are already developments that are dramatic. None of this has been heard from NEOS. Josef Cap addressed it on the edge. I would like to present this again. [[Keeping a table with a curved diagram with the title ‘Advertising market shares TV-grottospendings in Austria’]] This is not quite so clear, but I left it conscious, because it was created by ATV and not by ORF. These are the revenue from advertising in Austria. The red curve is the proportion of the ORF, which was two-thirds ten years ago, today it is below 30 percent. [[Abg. Neubauer: Because he's no longer an advertising carrier!]] ORF revenues from advertising have fallen in absolute numbers over the last ten years, ranging from 343 million to 284 million euros; this is a decrease of 18 percent in the last ten years. On the other hand, advertising revenue has increased significantly. And now we're coming to these curves. What are those curves? – These are the advertising windows, the German advertising windows in Austria, not the channels that produce in Austria, but the German advertising windows. As regards revenue from advertising: 2006: 148 million €, 2015: 567 million € from advertising windows, no content produced in Austria, a departure, which is otherwise apparently also criticized, a plus of 383 percent, a plus of 400 million € in ten years, a plus of 65 million € alone last year, alone in 2015. Now I'm wondering, Is this the development we want in which de facto production in Austria no longer takes place? And there you have to be precise. The ORF sends many series; this can be criticized. The ORF also produces series: “Brunschlag”, “Welcome Austria”, from me the “Vorstadtweiber”. Is that public-law content now? Does it have a public value or not? – Because it’s going to be exciting to discuss it, because if you reduce the ORF to what’s very interesting, on ORF III, on Ö1 on the radio, if you take channels like ARTE, if you take from me servusTV, then we’ll have a common conclusion: This cannot be achieved on the market. Then Mr. Mateschitz comes and says from one day to another: I'm locked! If the union fails to do so, hundreds of millions will be bred in. – Public broadcasting cannot be financed. So from that point on, I'd take a closer look at whether Austria can afford to say: Get out of it! We don't need public broadcasting anymore! – We have German channels. We have Austrian channels, all in the existence crisis, which, despite significantly higher advertising revenue, are apparently unable to cover a wide range of public value in the field of information. The figures are quite undisputed: 90 percent of TV information is produced by ORF. That's all we can do, is everything gone, and then we're all happy? – So I just understand this concept and I just don’t understand it. Body reform – my speaking time is right –: clear, must be here! [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] Furthermore, the only two political groups can imagine that this is not a party political one, the NEOS and the Greens. The FPÖ has just said it again: best represent the election result. After the election result, the ORF functions are distributed, and then everything is great. - Good night, Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4362	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4384	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Mr. Minister, what you are doing is a refusal to work – quite clearly. You have to say that. [[Abg. Steinhauser: You should start valued!]] You went to the media last week and said, like all your colleagues: Of course, we'll be serving this government time for two more years, by 2018, which is questionable in the performance you deliver; But you are instituting it – we still have two years!, and at the same time you say: We can no longer make ORF reform during this rest period! – No citizen understands that in two years no reform is possible. And that's why I'm saying, This is a refusal to work, which we will not accept NEOS. This is unacceptable for the citizens of this country! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What we need is an ORF reform. To say, we are now simply increasing the GIS charges, as many do, in the company, but also political forces, which obviously love them, we also consider unacceptable – for several reasons. First: Over the last ten years, the ORF has decreased its population by about 30 percent, while inflation has increased by only 20 percent. That is, in fact, an increase in fees has taken place. Second point: The ORF has a hole of €30 million to €50 million with or without an increase in fees next year, i.e. a €100 million hole. We have structural problems in this company, whose solution we have to address. If we do not address them, Mr Minister, if we make this refusal to work, which you have planned here, with your ministerial colleagues, together with ÖVP and SPÖ, the ORF is increasingly suffering a fate like Austrian Airlines, so that at some point we can stand in front of a bankrupt state company and then say: Let's give the cheese bell over now, we'll subsidize it with millions and billions! Of course, the ORF needs high appreciation for the journalistic services that are provided there – they are good, but of course it also needs the possibilities of cross-media exploitation, for example digitalization, which some in the ÖVP do not want to give it; these answers must also come in an ORF reform. Whatever it needs, of course, is a structural reform. Last week a spectacle was offered, it was negotiated by the ÖVP for one night – dear citizens, you have to listen carefully now, because you should pay the bill in this lubrication comedy –: The ÖVP wanted a Secretary-General, occupied by the Party, and two directors and would have been willing to purchase an increase in GIS fees. That is, you let the citizens pay – the costs – and you cash the posts for your party! – That’s the way you want to run this company, and that’s breaking the ORF, that’s making him sick and broken. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Grill: The cap has written this speech!]] This makes the ORF sick and broken, and you should be ashamed, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that you are holding this kind of cow trafficking so shamelessly in the public. You used to do it behind locked doors, and today you make it public in shame. That is totally unacceptable! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Why do we want to abolish the GIS fee? – Because we believe that the ORF can also be financed through the regular budget. If you say, But then the ORF is party-politically dependent!, then I say: Not all, because we also assume independent justice, and the judicial budget is also set here in plenary!So we should also set an ORF budget in plenary if that is necessary. They say new media promotion: Mr. Minister, you've made a successful survey, you're also saying things that are happening, but you're going to philosophise here about a budget item of €9 million – that's the press promotion today – and say: If we don't talk about the 600 million € that we take from the citizens – ORF – we don't have time for the next two years! This is not the case, it is a twitching of people, and that is precisely this refusal of work which we do not accept. That means that what we need is an ORF reform without GIS, out with party politics! There is a clear commitment from NEOS to the public-law mission and the social added value of a public-value production house ORF New.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4467	Mr Hagen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4490	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! How independent and unpolitical the ORF is, we have been able to experience this in the appointment of directors; this comedy has been addressed several times here. What was the consequence of this occupation or this election of directors in the ORF? – It was a “coalition crisis”, ladies and gentlemen; that was the headline, and that shows how unpolitical the ORF really is. Mr Cap, you might as well have tried the truth, because he is not as unpolitical as you presented the ORF. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] However, I would like to address a positive move by the new and old ORF Director-General Wrabetz here: In my view, the new Chief Financial Officer, Mr Nadler, is really unpolitical, truly independent. This is once a first step – an attempt – in the right direction. It must also be said that the ORF really should be depoliticized once, and I would also like to tell you how this can work; that is not the way you have always handled it, by the fact that the Council of the Foundation has been occupied by the parties, by the election of the National Council – that is anything other than non-political – but you could do it quite differently, by taking the ORF fees, the compulsory fees, once. You, ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens at home, now you have the opportunity to experience a truly independent ORF, from Parliament, you can take a picture of yourself. There is no desired political reporting here, but objectivity, each party can give its ideas for the best, and you can take a picture. It would be nice if in other areas of the ORF it would also be so that the fee payer determines what the ORF is supposed to look like, namely the penalty payer. We do not pay the GIS fees voluntarily, and this is also different in the federal states, because the countries are still co-cashing and they also earn their pocket money there. You could do it the way you did at a club: When I am with a club, I pay a member's contribution so that if I have paid it, I can also have a voting right and choose the board or the supervisor. We from the Stronach team have always demanded that the ORF should allow the people at home, who as a television viewer, to pay a member's contribution as a GIS payer, to choose the ORF's leadership by means of a letter election. That would be the most unpolitical solution, and in my opinion, like an association, the only right one: that the members who make the money available to the association, with which it then manages, determine what they want, and not the political parties, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] How unpolitical the ORF is, one has been able to read in the press about these political hacks that I have already mentioned here. I would like to take out the Burgenland, a federal government governed by the SPÖ, now in a coalition with the liberals. You have to say quite clearly, that has been mentioned here: In Burgenland, an impeccable reporting of the refugee crisis was actually made by the ORF last year, and the result was that SPÖ lost three mandates in the country election. Then was intervened by the Landes-SPÖ, namely by Mr. Landeshuptmann Niessl personally, so that the well-established and acting Landesdirector Karlheinz Pope, who has done good work and has been drawn from this post objectively in the sense of the fee payer and in the sense of the Austrian television viewer, report on the real situation of the refugee crisis. That's exactly what we want to avoid from the Stronach team, so we say: The citizens who have to pay the token must also be able to decide what the education mission of the ORF is, which missions are coming, and also in the sense of the independent education mandate of the ORF can give their voice. That's our demand. That would be the right reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4547	The next item is Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4569	Madam President. Minister! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, the ORF must deal with the digital age and the resulting circumstances and challenges and must continue to work. Adjustments and re-configurements of the programme, education, but also the task of the programme are a permanent process with which the colleagues working in the ORF have to deal in order to reach the age in which we are now. Mr Strolz, you say there are no reforms and nothing is allowed. – It is a permanent reform that takes place in the ORF so that it can exist at this time, as the digital media simply develop. If the ORF didn't do that, it wouldn't be possible for him to survive either. To claim as a quality medium is an essential task that the ORF has to fulfil. To this end, the ORF also conducts a regular discourse; You know that. There are constant discussions with stakeholders in which new positions are being developed with experts in science and the programme columns such as science, food aid, service, consumer protection, which is highly appreciated by the Austrian public are constantly being reworked, discussed and developed in a quality-proof manner. I don't need to explain to you the quality dimensions of Public Value, you know these five quality dimensions. In addition to the fact that the ORF is very well in the European ranking, I would like to repeat what our Minister has already said: With the TV, the ORF is in place 5 with public-law channels to Finland, Belgium, Germany and Norway and with the radio to Sweden and Denmark. He is a successful company – stop talking about this successful company! It is also an essential aspect and an essential pillar of democracy that we have a public-law broadcasting system, which also has control, and this control is authorities, courts, but ultimately also the public. Mr Alm, you are an example: no more funding! – Look What happened at the public television station in New Zealand at that time! It was said in the media landscape that you should write out, you said you were given a public-value contract. It was not economically successful, and what was the final effect of it? – That New Zealand public television has been switched off. That cannot be the goal we are pursuing in Austria! The number of spectators shows how important it is to the audiences in Austria. The ORF achieves 92 percent of all Austrians. 4.7 million Austrians use the daily, multiple-sent ZIB program. Radio and online are being greatly expanded – as the Minister has already said – with ORF III, FM4, but ultimately with the RSO's cultural programme that we have. I would also like to come to the fees very briefly, Mr Alm. The ORF fees have always been below the inflation rate since 1994 – always! I can now also say: Currently, the ORF program fee is 17,78 € including the sales tax; without VAT, we are at 16,16 €. [[Abg. Strolz: But the population is increasing, that's what it's all about!]] This is less than in Germany. In Germany it is more than 17 €, and in Switzerland – as you have already said by the Greens, how many millions are taken – you pay 31,55 € for the public-law media. We confess to a public-law ORF with a clear mission, with legal control and excellent work of the employees, and they must always develop – without political hack and without interfering here!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4605	Reported as follows: Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4627	Good morning! I very much welcome you to the ZIP! At present in Parliament: the debate on the ORF and its future. We will discuss the following topics today: Looking back, requirements and expectations and challenges to a public-law media house for the future. – For example, ladies and gentlemen, the launch of a broadcast in the ORF could also be loud. High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! In the 1950s, there was above all the political discussion about the market position of radio and television, in the 1990s the topics were demarcation issues between private television and public television, and with digitalisation we are discussing the next step in television and other media services. The online offers make the market more open to new big players, new power factors are emerging internationally. Now we face challenges such as: all against Google! We are facing the challenge of creating a strong ORF, which can also prove itself in this open media landscape. I am happy about this present hour on the theme “ORF into 21. “th century” and I would like to clarify: I'm not available for an ORF bashing! In my opinion, the perceptions presented here are partly thematic errors. Mr Klubobmann Strolz documents and discusses the real voting processes and the real results very one-sided and peculiar. I see the public-law core order of the ORF, the public value, and we need to ensure that. Mr Alm, addressed to you: Sports is an essential factor and part of the public value. As a representative of Austrian sport, I would like to have said this at this point. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We – and this is a clear definition for our group – stand for a strong ORF. We stand for strong, independent journalists and, of course, demand objective reporting. We are in favour of a strong, broad set-up and diverse media landscape; the private media houses make a significant contribution to this. One thing is quite clear: Our democracy needs strong, independent journalism. Let me therefore, as a result, bring into the debate very specific requirements which we have on the ORF, on the management. We want to make the ORF possible for the future. In this sense, it is necessary to establish: The internal costs must be reduced, the most professional process management must be set up, job creations and careers must be adapted according to the requirements of technology and the structure, the opportunities of digitization must be used, new business areas must be considered – who says that we only have to move in a conventional way? – and compliance rules are to be tested. Structural changes follow the strategy, and we set out the strategy. Changes must implement management with maximum efficiency. The implementation of the concepts of the Ladies and gentlemen, who deal with it on a daily basis, are present in the ORF and have also been presented in recent weeks. [[Call:operating blindness means that]] – I believe that the ORF already has specialists who are thinking about how further development should work. We support public broadcasting with a very clear commitment to the core public service contract. In order to ensure this permanently, ladies and gentlemen – in this respect you can't surrender to imagination – it takes basic public funding. This must be worth an independent, quality, public television. Despite the basic funding, the ORF has a financial gap in the coming years, and therefore the ORF has to be kept on this economic recovery course. We expect efficient and effective reforms that make it unnecessary to increase GIS fees. Ladies and gentlemen! In the media industry, we face exciting changes through digitalisation. International and regional information is available via smartphone and tablet at any time. I see many benefits for citizens and new opportunities for media companies. Consideration of participation and regionality should be given to increased cooperation with civil society and further promotions of quality journalism. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Finally, let me say what our democracy needs! It needs an independent, strong, modern, slim, efficient, objective, informative and dynamic ORF, which provides quality journalism to our Austrian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4672	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4694	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Steinacker obviously wants the egg-legging wool milk sauce, but unfortunately it will not exist; perhaps yes, wishes to the Christian child. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear watcher in front of the TV screens! In this sense also dear GIS numbers, hopefully all good GIS numbers! This spring, we all experienced the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – Mr Schrangl has already mentioned it – who announced a new deal that meant that the SPÖ and the ÖVP no longer want to be power-consuming. In June, with the election of the President of the Court of Auditors or the President of the Council, we experienced a special-class farce. It's not expected to be packed again. Because of this, we have already discussed here in the House with a view to the election of the new Director-General of the ORF and we wish that we should not act Party-politically there. We all have in mind what we have experienced during the last months and weeks and during the summer election: It was, of course, a package, a political deal that the ÖVP had closed with the SPÖ or vice versa, so that Mr Wrabetz was last of course re-elected. But, please, I do not think that this Council of the Foundation in any form reflects a democratic majority relationship in that country. We all know that ÖVP and SPÖ's friends dominate this Stiftungsrat with green side wagerl and then justament is the most politically willing to become the Director-General. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I find it interesting that the ÖVP has previously meant that it will not want more of the same in the future, so more of the same. I am surprised that Mr Wrabetz was nevertheless elected and did not take the opportunity to exchange the leadership in order to bring about a change. [[Abg. Schönegger: Who meant that?]] – Mr Amon said this earlier: no more of the same. Then you'd have chosen someone else! So, like the SPÖ, the ÖVP has known itself to continue as before. As in the past, this means that the public service contract is only carried out on the paper, it is banned to the division channels, for example on ORF III, where there is hardly any reach. Ö3 and ORF one act basically like private channels, where you spread messages with a little bit of sugar casting. I just watched the television program of this afternoon with my colleague Dagmar Belakovich: There are 5 minutes “ZIB Flash” – which is then the public-law commission – then, more of the same, ten times the same US series. So these are things that you really can't see as compatible with the public-law mission, what you have to say quite clearly, Hollywood and Co – in my opinion – can be better with other channels, because I don't really need the ORF for that. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] The cultural order is also too short or if in the ORF, then only in these division channels. Here you could take an example of channels such as servus TV, which in a combination of sports, sometimes also peripheral sports, make it very skilled to various cultural programmes. This is very well done and also has a corresponding range. The ORF doesn't make this with much, much more money. Another point, ladies and gentlemen, is the distortion of competition that the ORF produces today by Niko Alm. This is a point not only in the media market, but also not only in the internal market, it also brings about a distortion of competition with regard to Austrian domestic policy. We all know about the division of the times in the ZIB missions between government and opposition that there is a clear, clear overhang for the government parties, the opposition is a little too short and the reporting is often tendential. An example of this from last Thursday, “ZIB 1”, preliminary reporting on the EU summit in Slovakia: The Federal Chancellor comes to terms, et cetera, suddenly Mr. Van der Bellen jumps in front of the microphone and may issue his statement at the best time in the “ZIB 1”. I thought it might be the other candidate for the presidential election, Mr Norbert Hofer. - Nothing was! The ORF is therefore no longer even trying to make an objective appearance, but makes clear unilateral reporting. I'm not surprised that the greens are currently so satisfied with the ORF. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly!]] What do these facts follow? – One has to think about partial privatisation of the ORF or due to the ORF one and Ö3 transmitters on the public service contract. At the same time, we need to strengthen this public-law mission, namely in ORF 2 and other areas such as the state studios or the radios. It is essential to democratize the Foundation Council – my colleague Schrangl has already said this – in order to actually reflect democratic conditions and not the red and black proportions in this country. And, of course, you have to think about it – it is not a black and white story that you questioned the public-law mission – to abolish the compulsory fees or at least to distribute them differently under these conditions and not only to send the ORF a monopoly, but also to allow other channels to create other media. We say yes to the public service mission, but not in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4775	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4797	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the core tasks of the ORF are not fulfilled, the public service contract is not discharged and if this is confirmed by the Administrative Court of Justice as well as by the Federal Communications Senate, Parliament also needs action. This can either look like the correction of the public service contract or the introduction of appropriate control measures. That's a need for action. And the second need for action is surely due to the continued possibility of political influence by the government groups. Col. Cap, you remember? – When I was a board of foundations, we discussed these things. There are political influences, there has always been, and we can probably only scale them asymptoticly, but we all have this task. [[Abg. New builder: Will there always be!]] I think it is almost cynical to claim that this issue is done, but to question the ORF is certainly not useful. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Neubauer]] Mr Alm says: We don't want to kill ORF. – In the position paper of NEOS to the ORF on page 2, however, NEOS definitely threatens to privatize if the core tasks cannot be heightened. I also believe that the strategy of ending broadcasting charges is precisely in this direction. We then have the question of financing, which, according to NEOS, is to be covered alternatively by the budget. Now I honestly ask: How does that look? – Will the budget increase by this amount or who will take the money away? Of course, this can always be said and with all the things you want to change, but that's a good contribution. I am speaking only once to the small area of culture. The film budget, which the ORF spends – the minister has already said – includes 100 million euros in production. If the cultural budget were to be increased by €100 million, one could talk about it, but one must already be clear to us: The authority over the budget is with the government groups – in the end, of course, with Parliament, but in practice with the government groups – and that is to say, the ORF will be much more determined by the government, and we certainly do not want to do so! But is it not true that neoliberalism is always pursuing the same principle worldwide? – On the one hand On the other hand, the state should focus on the core tasks, while at the same time reducing taxes. If it no longer fulfils the core tasks, the core tasks must be further reduced, up to the privatisation of everything and everyone. And that's exactly what we've got at ORF. You want to reduce taxes on the one hand stately, but at the same time you want to reduce the core order of the ORF. Then the state takes over the tasks of financing, then there is too little money, and that goes to privatization of the ORF. – We certainly do not play it because we can observe the consequences of neoliberalism worldwide. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing to distort the market. – Sure, the ORF is in some way market-distorting, no question at all, you can confirm that already, but it is a cultural pillar. That's what the NEOS themselves say. When Colleagues If all applications for the ORF are submitted to the Cultural Committee, then he almost confesses. However, cultural expenditure is always market-distorting! That's almost trivial. Or do you want to reduce culture to its core task? – Then, I think, you can delete the cultural budget. Culture is a meritorical asset – that is to say, it takes over tasks that are not taken over in the market. The ORF also takes over such tasks. We play with all possible detailed corrections, which are also reasonably proposed in this paper, but for privatisation strategies we are certainly not to have! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4845	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4867	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers on the ranks! There have now been very many speakers who have made great efforts to change the subject and highlight the positive sides of the ORF. But I think it would also be important to point out what you do if you turn on the TV at home and if you transfer your GIS fees to finance everything. For example, in the ORF there is a large-scale action to send long-time employees to retirement early: Golden handshakes are offered to men with 58 and women with 56, where the expensive employees are sent to the early board for a pagan fee and bought out of the ORF. This is what you, the citizens, are financing with your GIS fee! The ORF is still a Dorado for luxury pensions, and the Federal Minister has said: The ORF is accountable anyway, all this will be checked anyway! – Well, I look at the accountability! If I just look at the answers from your ministry, I'll see a big dark shadow over the special pensions of the ORF. Although the Court of Auditors sees some savings, it states: “Even if the ORF achieved savings in pension expenses, it still had different occupational pension schemes. The RH recommended the ORF in the back look at the harmonisation of special pensions to take reform steps in order to continue to achieve savings in pension expenses.” – Yes. There is still a lot to be done, but there is nothing to be done for safety reasons. That's what your government can best do! What else do you finance when you turn on the TV or turn on the radio and if you're good Transfer your GIS fee? – They finance the federal states over long distances. If you press 24 € a comma in Vienna or Lower Austria in the month, then 7.10 € go to the country of Vienna or to the country of Lower Austria. This has nothing to do with television, nothing with cultural order, nothing to do with information, but it is just a feeding of national princes and a support of the donor federalism. That is why the national conference of the Heads of State or Government is always agitated immediately when any reforms concerning ORF are announced. Peter Kaiser said in 2013: “The federal states will continue to send a board of foundations to the ORF in the future so that the interests of the country studios will be preserved.” – Ah yes: The country studios as a small empire of the head of state! This can also be observed in Austria: If somewhere changes the country's captain's color, such as in Salzburg, a change of color is also foreseen at the national director's next appointment. It's automatic. Nobody's wondering! We all know that, and we used to it: There is this influence of politics in the ORF, which takes place, and everyone simply accepts it. The Court of Auditors also listed 25 recommendations for savings in the Landesstudios. The Landesstudios, which sponsor all kinds of events that have nothing to do with television, but also not with radio, have an effort of 160 million € and a yield of about 43 million €. The rest remains somewhere. For example, this was about the combination of technical directorates of various national studios: The Technical Directorates Tirol and Vorarlberg were assembled, but this was not the case with Carinthia and Styria. That's where Mr. Landes Directors said: Please, it's impossible with us! For geographical reasons, the Technical Directorates of Carinthia and Styria cannot be combined. The merger of Tirol/Vorarlberg has brought €140 000, but this is not the case with Carinthia/Stiermark. The Court of Auditors then looked at the public timetables and directed the ORF that the travel time between Graz and Klagenfurt was shorter by 20 minutes than between Innsbruck and Dornbirn. So that would be very likely, but it is not possible for geographical reasons. Of course, if you are publicly funded or paid and the forced contributors simply have to pay, there is no saving pressure, then you can pay high pensions, then you can break the money with pointless positions, then you can finance early pension programmes. All this is only possible because there is no pressure, and that's why all this is changed.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4934	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e4955	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A Word That Is Today In this debate, the word depoliticisation of the ORF was very often stressed. – I would like to say this again at the end of the day, and I would like to mention it again, because it is really one of the key points and it will not go without a depoliticization of the ORF. We have heard today about the fact that, in particular, the party policy should be kept out of the ORF and that the task of public-law television is not carried out to the extent that it is supposed to be. I just want to remind you: Not too long ago, the “summer talks” took place, and if I remember the whole process in the ORF, the analysis of the professional analyst Filzmaier and the famousplemplem-sager once again, in terms of which the ORF editor did not have any distance at that time, then this is really a clear and plausive example of the fact that this was clearly violated by the objective command and the ORF did not comply with its order. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On the planned increase in fees, which was also mentioned and mentioned in the previous debate and which will be decided by the Foundation Council in autumn of this year and will enter into force in April 2017, I would like to state on the one hand that we are against an increase in fees. On the other hand, I wonder who will then decide to raise this fee. It is said that the ÖVP is no longer available for this after the cow trade has not started: Exchange jobs for higher fees. In this context, Klubobmann Lopatka failed in his unworthy acting. In this context, I would also like to recall the procedure concerning the appointment of the new President of the Court of Auditors with respect to the President of the Court of Auditors. Here Lopatka has poked and lost, and in view of that, the ÖVP and in particular he also looks quite old. People are looking through this wrong game, they're going through this package and they've got enough of it. This has nothing to do with politics, but it has nothing to look for in the ORF either. The best-qualified people should come to the train and not return to positions through party politics – especially the government parties – which they obtain only because they are close to a political party. In the ORF, that really didn't lose anything! The colleagues from the NEOS, who have stimulated and also carried out this current hour, have already mentioned a number of things that are going wrong in the ORF. Of course, it is not all to criticize. Director-General Wrabetz and the new team were elected by a large majority. This is almost a rainbow coalition, except for the ÖVP, everyone voted in favour of this new package, on which it was about this team, and you have to give this team advance lore. There are some names that are really unpolitical, that has already been mentioned here, and you should not say anything bad. But what needs to be done is, of course, the depoliticization of the ORF – I would like to point out this once again – because there, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot going wrong. Nor can it be accepted if, just as recently in reporting on the presidential election, a candidate, namely Richard Lugner, is not invited at all. Richard Lugner, like the other candidates, has collected the appropriate supporting signatures, he has fulfilled all the requirements and has not been invited by the ORF, with any unmistakable reason that this is not relevant and people do not want to see it. – The fee payers have the right to see and see all candidates, and the ORF has the duty to: invite all candidates and report truly objectively and independently. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We will probably not be able to resolve this in a short time, but we will probably have to discuss it for a longer time. It has also been mentioned today that all the political parties should be allowed to participate here in order to discuss the reform proposals together, not only the representatives of the government groups and the members of the government, but all the parties here in the House, because we are guilty of paying fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5028	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Thank you, Minister of State Mag. Drozda for his presence. [[10:29:36]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5052	We're coming up to date now. European hours on the subject “Protecting Austrian borders, the EU’s external borders and safeguarding protection zones – how will Austria behave?” I welcome Mr Mag. Doskozil. I also welcome the Members of the European Parliament to participate in this current European hour, which has been nominated: Mrs Karin Kadenbach, Mr Heinz Becker and Mr Harald Vilimskyand Mrs Mag. Ulrike Lunacek. – I very much welcome you here in our midst. [[General condolences.]] That is what we are going to enter into the debate. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. I would like to draw your attention to this: 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5101	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are once again talking about the topic of refugees, security and the problems we have all experienced so many times in the past in Austria. Now, of course, we were planning to invite Mr Chancellor. Unfortunately, Mr Chancellor and the Minister of the Interior have been prevented. But it fits quite well if the Minister of Defence is here today, because it is really also about defense: It is about defending our beautiful country against people who come here and want everything quite different than we have loved it so much. That means: We leave people in the country who ultimately want to impose their way of life on us. Now, many will say: That's not all! – Yes, that’s true, of course, it’s not all, it’s probably just a minority of people who come here and want to convince us missionaryly that their way of life is better than ours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] So why is the presence of the Minister of Defence now appropriate? – We must defend ourselves against having a situation at the moment where we do not know who is coming here. We don't know. We don't know: Is that one? Refugee? Is he being persecuted? Is he to be treated after the Geneva Refugee Convention? Or is it perhaps an IS fighter or a so-called missionary who wants to convince us of the true faith? - We don't know! In this regard, it would be the task of a Minister of Defence to look at who comes into our country, who can stay and who has to go again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Many say: What he's talking again, Lugar! – I can tell you: We are currently experiencing a situation where everyone coming to Austria is staying here. Everyone, no matter if they have a reason to stay here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] Do you know why? – That’s because you don’t first look at who this is who comes. Secondly, it is because you cannot send someone back, if you know that he has no reason to stay here, if you know that he comes from Pakistan or elsewhere, because it is said that these countries do not take back any more. These people are then simply tolerated here in Austria, as they call it. Officially, 92 000 people in Austria have lost nothing here, but the dark figure is probably much, much higher. Therefore, as Minister of Defense, you would normally have the task of bringing these people out of the country! Now, almost a year ago, as I believe, you have taken a good approach. You said almost a year ago that you'd change the federal army's transport machines to bring back all those people who didn't lose anything here. – Since then, I haven’t heard anything from you! Where are these transport machines? Where are these transports? Why Bring You're not all those out of the country who didn't lose anything here? That is the question you have to answer us here today. As Minister of Defense, you have the duty to pay attention to the fact that all those who have lost nothing here leave our country again! Let us perhaps go back once again to the causes of this crisis! – We now have a refugee movement of Biblical proportions. Most people have been on the road since World War II. That's a fact. Obama too has now expressed great concern that something needs to be done here. The question arises: Why did this happen suddenly? Is that because of the war conflicts? – No, that’s not it! There are about a hundred war conflicts worldwide each year. This has not changed much since World War II. These hundred conflicts are repeated, and the number of people on the run is roughly the same. But suddenly everyone comes to Europe, and everyone asks: How's it going? – The answer is simple: The European Union – I cannot stress this often enough – has decided to bring 17 million migrants to Europe, because it believes that, because of the few children – by the way, because of the lack of family policy – the European Union will have to leave people and allow us to migrate from other countries. That is what the European Union believes. Of 17 million Avramopoulos has spoken over and over again! Because you shake your head: That's also Common Sense! This is what everyone knows in the European Union will tell you. There it is an open secret, only the population has not heard of the fact that it is actually 17 million people. At the moment, there are about 4 million here, that is, we can still adjust to a lot of things. Just so you know where that comes from! In fact, if one proceeds strictly after the Geneva Convention on Refugees, there will be no asylum status for war refugees. They don't have these! However, the least of them know, because that is always told falsely. Most say: Who before war and Persecution flees after the Geneva Convention on Refugees. Mrs. Merkel says that again and again. - It's not like that! The Geneva Convention on Refugees regulates only the escape of ethnic persecution, religious persecution, political persecution, but not of war. That's exactly the point. That means: You try to organize migration here, and you tell the people outside: You have to be solid, you have to give these poor people accommodations! - No! We don't have to! Do you know where these people need to find accommodation? – In the neighbouring countries, this is how the Geneva Convention on Refugees regulates. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Anyone who flees first flees to the neighbouring country, and there you have to take care of it! It makes no sense at all to change to Europe someone who is safe in Turkey, Jordan or elsewhere, except for something else: One does not want these people – as originally planned – to be given a short stay in a war situation and then sent back to rebuild the country. You don't want to. One wants to bring the Syrians – this is mainly the case, but that does not work – to Europe, that was the idea behind it. You want to depopulation Syria, you want to get the Syrians here because they're supposed to be good labor, and what happens to Syria doesn't matter to those who want it. In fact, the economy is behind it! In Germany, especially the large DAX companies are behind it, which ultimately want to bring workers into the country, because they are afraid that over the next five years they will be out of work. That's the background! This is not about persecution and war. That is why 80 percent of those who come here are young men. Otherwise, it wouldn't be explained! In fact, not only men flee from a war zone, but they have something else in mind and want to take possession of what many fear, namely, Europe again. That's exactly what many say. I did an event on the Viktor Adler market and also spoke to Muslims. I noticed two points during these talks. First of all, Muslims in Europe do not see themselves as guests, but according to Koran, Europe has always heard them and they only take possession of them again. Secondly, If you ask Muslims which law applies, the law of God, that is, the law of Allah, or the law which is decided here in Parliament, then they cannot begin with this question at all. Of course, the law applies to them. Gods! For them there is only one law, namely the law of God, and what we do and decide here in Parliament or what the European Parliaments as a whole do is not recognized by them. These are the problems we are facing, and they do not exist because there is war there, but because some in the European Union have decided that 17 million migrants are being brought into the European Union. The population is simply fooled by this great shame that all the refugees of war are the ones we need to help because we have no other choice and that is in the Geneva Convention on Refugees. This shame or this untruth is simply shown to the population. However, the population has already thought about it and does not believe what the ORF and others are immersing here. But with this shame, you try to get the people around on the nose. Kern, our chancellor, said it: He wants to organize legal migration to Europe. You have to imagine that once! We now have incredible flows of refugees and do not know how to integrate these people, how to create jobs and housing, and Now German Chancellor Kern comes and says that we need legal migration, where he can choose who will come to do what the economy originally wanted, namely to bring top-qualified people to Europe. That was the idea behind Mrs Merkel's invitation policy, in the sense: You, well-qualified Syrian worker, come to Germany, here there is work for you! That was the invitation, which is why 80 percent of young men came, and then you noticed: There are only 17 percent Syrians, the rest come everywhere, and 50 percent of them can't even read and write. Afterwards, the idea of selecting was born. The deal has been made with Turkey to prevent people from coming uncontrollably, because only those who are well qualified wanted it. It was never a question of helping refugees of war. It was always about the interests of Europe and the interests of those who believe that we should let 17 million people in. That's where we need you, Minister of Defence. I hope that you will finally come to terms with this, because as Minister of Defense, you must also defend us from false policies.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5229	Federal Minister Mag. Mr Doskozil spoke for an introductory opinion. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5250	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. High house! At the outset, I was allowed to refer to the issues of competence. One thing is clear: The The area of defence is not responsible for dealing with asylum cases and assessing the content of those who are receiving asylum in Austria and who are not. The Ministry of Defence's department's responsibility does not include the question of border security, although it performs assistance to the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Defence is not responsible for who is being brought outside the country and who is not. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for this. However, I have always said clearly that we also provide our entire resources to the Ministry of the Interior, whether it be for assistance on the border, or in operational support when it comes to repatriation. I think it's important to stress that. If we address this issue in a comprehensive way, we must also look at it in Europe, because a situation like last year – and I believe we agree – we do not want to experience a second time in this dynamic, in these processes of events. To that end, we need to look at this issue in a European Connex. We have repeatedly pointed out the European options for action in the last half year, the last year. It's quite clear: They are part of appropriate return agreements, adequate external border security, and that we are developing a common European asylum procedure in order not to have to discuss which countries within the European Union may be safe or insecure – I am thinking of Hungary or Greece, which are under discussion. The European options for action are, moreover, a solution to the subsequent issue of distribution, because it cannot be accepted that, as last year and partly this year, only a few countries, including Austria, bear the total burden. I do not need to focus on where we stand in the area of these European options for action: There is a delay at European level. We are currently unable to resort to European return agreements. We have already made a very concrete proposal, together with the Central European Ministers for Defence, in March, where we want to develop in the area of external border security. I am not convinced that, given the dynamics, the rapid succession of events, Frontex will be able to organize appropriate external border security measures quickly enough. In this respect, the Central European Ministers of Defence have proposed the establishment of a mixed mission of civilian, police and military units in order to carry out external border safeguards and to introduce measures that we believe are necessary – and I am too slow to see the pace that is set at European level. We do not have a common asylum procedure – it does not develop in this direction either. And we didn't solve the distribution question either. If we look at this question in the European context, we see that the Visegrád countries are always being highlighted. I am not the defender of the Visegrád states, but I have experienced that Hungary has counted 170 000 to 175 000 border crossings from Serbia in the last year, for example – January to July. We know the European response to this. I believe that the Visegrád countries have lost confidence in an option of action at European level. We need to regain this confidence. However, we will not be able to recover it if we press the Visegrád states in the first phase and say: We need to solve the distribution question! The issue of distribution is important, but the trust of these states – including the Visegrád countries, when we think of and believe in a common Europe – will only be able to recover if Europe manages to effectively secure the external borders and conclude the corresponding return agreements. I believe that it will then be possible, in a next step, to discuss with these countries how we will proceed in a common asylum procedure and in relation to the issue of distribution. We all now know where we stand on these issues from the European point of view. That is precisely why we have started the well-known measures and will also be able to take appropriate action on the part of the defence body in the future. That is why we have achieved on the part of the department of defence that we have, for the first time, received the increase in the budget, make a structural reform and, on the third hand, propose a corresponding increase in staff. Of course, we have responsibility for our population in Austria. It is our duty to support the Ministry of the Interior as much as possible in these matters. And we are committed to acting accordingly abroad – where it is in the interest of Austria and also in the interest of the European Union. This means that we will continue our foreign commitments and foreign operations. There is a focus on Lebanon and, of course, the Balkans. However, we cannot only demand the European Union's variants of action and solution in this connex, but, if there is too little movement and dynamics in this field, we must also present ourselves. On the one hand, there is now the initiative to involve us effectively in the protection of the external borders, which will still be the subject of the main committee. We're thinking about it. To operate in the Mediterranean – in the framework of the SOPHIA mission – and to use us for legal and humanitarian reasons in the area of external border security, in particular the border security of Hungary-Serbia. These are our measures which we provide for nationally. I know very well that these are the second best measures. The best would be to identify European solutions and ways and to take them together. I do not see such a dynamic in the medium term, so the measures mentioned above are being put nationally. Secondly, I would like to refer to questions relating to my department in a wider context. Let me briefly consider how, from my point of view, European security and defence policy will develop. We have seen a certain dynamic in this area in recent weeks, especially after Brexit. It has been shown that there is an interest in Europe to push forward the common security and defence policy. With regard to this intention, which is especially carried by Germany and France, I note that it will be our line not to participate in a European army. For us, neutrality and its themes are ground in stone. We will remain neutral – that is the clear answer to this question. Nevertheless, as well as now, as we are involved in a mission conducted by NATO in Kosovo, we will look for and find the best possible possible cooperation variants. I am convinced that our foreign commitment – if you want to cover this area – must be in our interest. We want to continue our neutrality policy in future, depending on our interests and according to cooperation with the other countries, including institutions. In addition, we will implement our national measures, as we put them over the course of the year, and we will be able to comply with the projects and objectives we have undertaken at the beginning of the year – now we can discuss the ceiling or the indicative value. Therefore, I am firmly convinced that we have done our homework, although I have to admit that there are still a lot of options for action and a lot of potential at European level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5332	The next item is the report by Mr Pendl. The speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5354	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! – This is an important and serious issue. Mr Klubobmann Lugar, I would have expected at least the facts to be presented properly in such a discussion. I am glad that Mr Doskozil has clarified the incorrect statements that have been made here. I don't think it's necessary to add anything. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to address this problem – the Federal Minister has listed some points that are important, some of which I am going to address, but all of them are only second-best solutions – it would be best if the international community were to ensure that all the crisis spots were calmed down once, because then such developments would not occur and would not at all ask these questions. The next step, ladies and gentlemen, is: The European Union must ensure that the task which has come to it here is of all Member States are jointly and solidarityd and implemented. I say quite openly, if we want this – our Europe – then before the international community solves its homework, we must protect the European external borders. If that doesn't work, then we have to protect our borders by then – but that's already the third or fourth best solution. That's not a question at all. Mr Federal Minister, since as a parliamentarian I am also a bit proud of the fact that it was finally a request from this House in November, which enabled the military to act in solidarity and in support of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, I would like to thank all the political groups who have contributed to this request at the time. It was an important decision, that is no question at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] - I think that's just part of it. If you don't want to thank yourself, don't thank yourself. I don't like to thank you. Mr. Federal Minister, the soldiers, but also the police, including the NGOs, are doing great things, and I thank them personally and on behalf of my group – that is no question at all – because at Sunday's speeches, at the round table or here at the speaker's desk you can say something soon, but the implementation is always a delicate question. With regard to the Federal Government's projects – the Federal Minister has done it – the main committee will have to take decisions in the next few days that will go in the direction mentioned. Then, together, we will be able to take another important step towards the external borders. I invite you to discuss these questions in a matter of fact and, above all, I say so, because that is how I feel about it. There is nothing to deny! If we look at how much the colleagues of the Federal Ministry of Defence have actually helped the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs by means of security police assistance, we must say: This is exemplary! I believe that we all have to take this path of mutual interaction – not one another. This is not a question of who might want to break a competence under the nail there or there, but rather of pooling our resources in a difficult situation in such a way that we can deal with the task together. I would like to thank you very much for this, Mr Federal Minister. That's very important. I also assume that we can resolve the delicate questions that will arise in the near future in the interests of the matter. Nevertheless, I would like to invite all of you and ask you to continue working together at international and European level, to invite you to talk and to try to find a solution, because I believe: Speaking for the future, we can only solve this issue jointly at the great European or international level. I call on all of you to contribute to the fact that we are finally implementing the humanitarian projects that we have been discussing for a long time in crisis areas, because I think it is good for us Austrians to show that, in addition to our activities in the state organizations, we want to help in the purely humanitarian field. I think that's important. The more we can help on the spot, the less pressure comes on our borders. In this sense, I invite you to address these important issues together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5426	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5447	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very easy for me to connect directly to my previous speaker and also to what Minister of Defense Doskozil said very quietly, unagitatedly, but clearly in positioning. It is important to have a Minister of Defence who works so well with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the situation is difficult and the challenges are greater than ever before. We have a clear positioning and this also marked clearly after 2015. 2015 can no longer be repeated! 1 322 170 people have come to Europe this year and have sought asylum here. If there had been a fair distribution within the European Union, this number would also be one for the Member States of the European Union, which we could not school year after year. But we are far from internal European solidarity. There were only a few states that were heavily burdened. However, the European Union has now recognised this task. It was exactly today a week ago when Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker gave his speech in Strasbourg. I hope that what he said will also be implemented. Juncker recorded in his speech: “That is why we will protect our borders with the new European Border and Coast Guard, which is currently being formalised by Parliament and the Council – only nine months after the Commission has presented the relevant proposal.” We have seen that the European Union has failed here in terms of the protection of external borders. For so far it has been like this: Once you have reached the Mediterranean, you have had the ticket to Germany or Austria or Sweden in your pocket. – That must not be! This has also been very clearly recorded by Foreign Minister Kurz. We need to protect the EU's external borders – it needs to be built up! That's essential to get away from what Juncker also held in his speech, saying: “Our European Union is – at least in part – in an existential crisis.” A very important part of this existential crisis is, of course, to see that the protection of the EU's external borders and thus a key project of the European Union has not succeeded by being unable to maintain the freedoms of the Schengen area. We are forced to adopt appropriate measures at our national borders. This is not positive, it is the opposite of positive, but we must do it because it rightly expects our people from us. If the European Union cannot protect the EU's external borders, we are required to protect our state borders, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] As the European Union, we have the task of doing everything we can to achieve a good understanding that people can stay there before the borders of the European Union, which is in the EU's supranational states. Of course, it is good to be able to reach an agreement with Turkey, only: This does not dispel us from our task of protecting the EU's external borders. There must be no blank check, we must never go into the hand of a neighboring state. I mean a state bordering on the European Union. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] In other words, it is quite clear to us that Turkey is: Turkey is far from being able to talk about its becoming a member of the European Union. Not at all! We also have a corresponding concept. This is what Mr Reinhold Mitterlehner has presented together with the Foreign Minister, saying: No to a full membership of Turkey in the European Union! And against this background, the points I have just raised here, the European Union should also do what more than two years ago, Minister of the Interior, Johanna Mikl- Leitner, proposed with the “Save Lives” project, where she called for the European Union to do so in North Africa and Turkey, that is to say in front of the European Union, to set up refugee camps in the countries surrounding the European Union, so that the tractors know that they cannot complete their business, that they can bring the people into the Mediterranean area and then cash them and then the people who deliver these tractors will automatically come to the EU. We need to take strict action. Setting limits and giving security – this is our task!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5521	The next item is the Member of the European Parliament, Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5542	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Right in front of the address of my predecessor Lopatka, who here meant that the Austrian borders should be protected in the event that the external borders of the European Union cannot be secured: I hear this from your side again and again, just: There's nothing going on in the thing itself! It was just Foreign Minister Kurz who also said in the direction of “Kronen Zeitung”: We protect the red and white-red borders. - Please don't! A few days later, he then said in Brussels, of course, the burner must remain open. And we all know that a major stream of migrants from Arabia and Africa goes via Italy towards Austria. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] And today we have the phenomena of crime, illegality and, above all, terrorism. Not least, Austria has now become a stronghold of jihadism. You of the ÖVP must take a path where you say: We also do what we say! – and do not lose a choice, after choosing to use the boulevard in a startling second, saying: We are eh red-white red, we protect our borders! – In reality, you do exactly the opposite of what you say – at the head of your Foreign Minister Kurz! Now I'm trying to roll up the whole story a little bit from Genesis: There has been a referendum in the UK in which a majority of the population has said: No, we don't want to stay in this EU anymore! – But not because the British are bad Europeans or do not want to cooperate, but because they do not want to continue this path of centralism and above all want to protect their own territory. One should have understood it correctly as a European nomenclature and now say: Yes, we are giving the Member States more air to breathe again! Yes, we will let the Member States decide more about them again. Yes, we also give them the opportunity to protect their territory accordingly! But what were the first reactions of the EU tips? – Schulz has said that TTIP and CETA need to be smuggled by Parliament, and we do not need democratic co-determination. And Juncker has said that – we are also bringing it on the subject of today's current European hour – we need a European army, we need an EU army. The Italian High Representative of the European Union, Mogherini, who said yes, will be able to help him with such an EU army, headquartered in Brussels. I do not want a country such as Austria, which is constitutionally neutral, under the command of an EU army in Brussels and is likely to be used for interests which are not Austrian interests and which are probably to a good extent also American interests. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar]] No, we're neutral, we want to stay. And it is not in any way to be shaken. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] And there I am again with you from the ÖVP. Your Head of Delegation in the European Parliament said: Yes, we want such an EU army! And: Yes, we need to talk about it! – And that’s the difference to what you’re saying here. This is something different from what you really do in the last episode. The second issue we are debating today is the possibility of safe accommodation for people who need protection. There are also a lot of ideas in the European Union, which are right, which are good, which also come from the circles of the Conservatives and the Social Democrats. That's what it called a few years ago – it's a little behind, but it's important – from the German Minister for the Interior Schily: Of course we need a safe zone in the region itself! And it was the German Foreign Minister Thomas de Maizière who said: Yes, we need care in the region and we cannot bring people to Europe to hundreds of thousands! And it was even the Austrian interior minister Mikl- Leitner – again I am at the ÖVP – who said: Yes, we want to look after the people in the region, we can't get them back! Meanwhile, Mikl leaders are no longer in the government, and the ÖVP is doing the exact opposite. These are things that one sees as different here, with other tongues, that people are being speeded up things that are not kept in the last episode and which are completely different in real politics. I believe that if it is half honest with this European integration project and one thing about the fact that we are not driving this European Union back to the wall, it is now necessary to understand that we must go on to loosen the reins, that we now have to give back the national states' competences, that the national parliaments must be re-established, that we no longer have to decide 80 percent in Brussels and then implement them in the respective EU countries. That was the reason why I went to Brussels as a member of this House: to contribute to restoring these competences – for all of you, for Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, honestly mean it with this European project – I conclude – then you will support this path of more red and red competence in your actions and not only in your words! Thank you. [[President Head gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5639	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5663	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was eager to see how Mr Vilimsky, on the part of the Freedom Party, will address the future of European security policy. [[call to the FPÖ.]] And it is, I believe, very important for us to note that it is pleading in the area of security policy for the beginning of Austrian Öxit. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: When did he do that? Can't you listen?]] This is a very important note: get out of Europe, skills out of Brussels, Austrian unification, the beginning of Öxit in security policy! – I think this is the completely wrong way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I would like to say one more thing: It is not a particular secret that I have been pleading for years to take a common European defence seriously and to create conditions for it. [[Call the FPÖ: Kill the federal army!]] And for this there are three conditions in the European Constitution: Firstly, non-participation in wars as a constitutional principle, second: non-accession to a military alliance as a European constitutional principle, thirdly, the prohibition of the stationing of foreign troops in Europe as a constitutional principle. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: And fourthly, the abolition of Austrian neutrality!]] These are the three principles of Austrian neutrality, and I consider them to be good principles. And I think it is very useful to discuss seriously in the European Union whether this Austrian success recipe should not be a European success recipe. This is precisely what the future of security policy is all about! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And it makes sense to discuss with the Minister of Defence. Only: For all that the Freeman and Team Stronach wanted to discuss with him, another minister is chiefly responsible, namely the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Too bad he's not here! It is a pity that he does not explain to us why the EIA is discussing the unconstitutional use of military at EU and Schengen external borders. These are the police's duties and nobody else's. I am in favour, and I think it is a matter of course that these European borders are protected – but on the basis of our constitution! And that means that only by the police! And then the crucial question is to be clarified: How do we deal with the fundamental rights of this European Union? Does border security mean that we abolish the fundamental right to asylum within the Union, or does that mean that we take it seriously and do what we are obliged to do and whatever we can? And now I'm going to give the ÖVP and the Foreign Minister the right again: Especially the EIA, together with the liberals, always says that we must help on the ground so that as few refugees as possible need to come to us. We all, ladies and gentlemen, have made it clear to the Federal Government several times that we need massive support, for example, from the World Food Programme, so that people cannot flee from Jordan, Lebanon, Northern Iraq and other countries, but can wait there for their return. I asked in Berlin today: In June, the Minister of Finance, together with the Foreign Minister, promised the World Food Programme to our parliamentary initiative €5 million. No cent has arrived! I don't think that's just human for a joke! And I will not now mention the rags, not the responsible rags, but instead the responsible minister, the Minister for External Affairs and Integration of the Republic of Austria. At the same time, the Minister of Defence – and there is fast money – spends €1.61 million for an input command in the Mediterranean. I take note that the jewel of the Austrian naval Navy, the hunting command, has successfully made a point landing on the sun deck of the flagship of the Danube naval Society, the “MS Admiral Tegetthoff”. Bravo from this pult! Bravo to our naval Navy! But why we should then participate in EU Entrepreneurs under completely different conditions, for which there are not even constitutional foundations in the federal constitution and in the KSE law, is also a question. I fear that this task is even unconstitutional. Be careful, Minister of Defence! And why are there millions of entry commands and no money for food aid and the serious attempt to save people from fleeing to Europe? [[President Head gives the bell sign]] - That's what it's all about! I would ask you, Minister of Defence, to act in this way on the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Integration, as I say carefully now, that he abandons his dual and cynical attitude and finally represents humanity and the security interests of the Republic of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5763	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5784	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! A further look at the EU's external borders, at the security situation on our continent today at this European hour. – Yes, what is it to do? I think it is self-evident that a state formation or a community like the European Union must secure its borders. We discussed this a year ago. In fact, Mr Minister of Defense – and this is less important to you as a person than to social democracy and the conservatives – had to be clear to every person with a sense of mind in the design of Schengen and the European Union. We cannot give up the internal borders and, at the same time, do not take the safeguarding of the common external border seriously. This, however, has unfortunately happened, with all the outrages we see today, and therefore I understand that we need to intertwine with national border protection in the short term, as I find it to be so absurd. Only: What I cannot accept, Minister, is that one year after the beginning of the refugee crisis, we have the same situation as we did then, twelve months ago: They always impose national protection measures on them, indicating that the EU's external border is not sufficiently protected without you, Mr Minister, and the Foreign Minister, the chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor, who dance at all possible conferences, addressing European solutions. This is my accusation: that you are consciously and negligently extending national commissions here! And the fence that's built won't disappear so quickly. The wall that is being built will not disappear so quickly. The Germans can sing a song of that, and many other countries in the world. [[Abg. Hübner: That was a difference: to build a wall in Berlin!]] Look, we're building fences now. I know the FPÖ is spreading the illusion here that we are an island of the Blessed and that if we build an eight-metre-high fence, with barbed wire on it, everything remains good. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Nice.]] Mr Hübner, we are neither an island, nor are we blessed. We are in the heart of Europe, and if we do not forge and build these solutions together, then there will be no solutions. And then we will lose quality of life, prosperity and peace. [[Abg. Honey: What is the consequence? – There is nothing!]] The peace, prosperity and quality of life on this continent that my generation has enjoyed so far are exclusively and solely from commonness. And if it falls away, peace also falls away. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Our proposal is clear: 30 000 men and women at the EU's external borders. We have such large police equipment – including armies – in the 27 or 28 EU member states that we can do this tomorrow if ministers, if only the governments wanted it. But they don't want it, and that's not why it happens. As we secure the external border, of course we need to be determined in programmes of cooperation, for example with Africa – indicated by Juncker, but all too little determined! As long as we have this prosperity gap between Africa and Europe, a migration flow will not grow manageable. That's quite clear. In Africa, the population will grow from 1 billion to 2 billion by 2050: Duplicate the population over the next 30 years. At the same time, among the 15 to 24 year olds, there is unemployment of 60 percent in Africa. And at the same time, these – and this is a new system – get the images of prosperity, quality of life and so on on their mobile phones. They didn't have that before. Mobility has grown. The North African state belt is completely covered by partly stateless formations. Keywords: Libya. That means: We have a completely new playground. And: We need to get into completely determined cooperation. The Chinese buy all the country, make land tombing in great style. The American and, in part, the European groups can no longer stand by it, because they themselves – and that is true – give themselves compliance and ethics regulations and we as democracies give them. But all of this is not sustainable strategies. There must be a political answer, otherwise we will pay a high price here in the next few decades. That means: The answer lies in the solidarity of countries in a common Europe. That is why we have sung the European anthem before Parliament today, at 8.15 a.m. in the morning, and we will make it even more often. I hope it's the hymn that my daughters will sing at one time. I hope they once have a common passport – with the Slovenians, the Germans, the English, with whoever.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5855	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5877	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, Minister of State, you are right: They are actually only the third-ever contact, but the others, the first and the second contact, are in New York and have important conversations there. Only: The success will not be great, I can tell you now, because they have always come back empty-handed. And that won't be different this time either. I believe that it is necessary to draw attention to the problems we face, which is always being played down. I'd like to tell you one thing: I did six years ago – six years ago! – in the Council of Europe, in the Human Rights and Migration Committee, it is quite clear where the problem comes from and what to do at the Mediterranean border. I have called for a frontex mission on the North African border to meet the tow organisations where they are doing their dirty business, that is, at the North African border, from where they send people into totally crowded, non-seatful boats on the journey – often in safe death. That was my intention back then. – Nothing has happened to this day. At the time, I also called for the people who are being caught up there to be cared for in so-called EU waiting camps at the border and for whether they have an opportunity to come to Europe, or not, because most of the people who are on their way are economic refugees. I have here the answer to a written question from my colleague Waltraud Dietrich to the Federal Minister for the Interior this year – she has this request on 15 May. ==References====External links== came August; You can also read this on the Internet – and I noticed something. Austria has moved only a few people back: In 2012 it was a total of 255, in 2013 390, in 2014 480, in 2015 513 and from January to May 2016 166. If you pay attention to the nationalities in the question, you will see that no one has been moved back from Somalia, no one from Nigeria, no one from Afghanistan, no one from Morocco or Tunisia. We know, however, that from there all the “refugees” – under quotation marks – come, which we have here in Austria. I say so consciously, because for me it is mostly economic refugees and not war refugees. But no one was pushed back. Why? - Because we couldn't negotiate the withdrawal agreements. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that one has to sit there, and that is not where the Minister of Defence is called, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I have repeatedly tried to make this happen with requests to build up waiting camps in North Africa, for example in Tunisia or Morocco, which work so that we can also bring back the people who have a negative asylum notice that they are going back home voluntarily. They throw away their passport and claim to be someone else. This is the great problem that we have, because they are not orderly, and these countries do not take them back; for example, Pakistan is inside with zero in this answer to the question. These people come here with economic ideas, look for a job, of course want to improve their lives, and then land – as we read in the “Kronen Zeitung” today – in the minimum guarantee, do not teach how you would have expected it, but cut on the lazy skin and enjoy life at the expense of Austrian taxpayers. That's the wrong way. Ladies and gentlemen! I was at the burner this week, looked at the situation a little bit. On the Brenner is the basement of the station full of black Africans. I then spoke to the local people – Italians, Austrians, in innhouses – I was told again and again: These people are taken out of the train, then they wait there a little, and then they disappear – but no one is driving back to Italy! That gives me to think, ladies and gentlemen, and if I look at what game is being played here, I say: This is a European inability policy. I think you have to do that. the Federal Government is required to take action. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Hübner]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We have a failure at all levels, and I think, Federal Minister – you are unfortunately the one who has to do this today, but you can take it to the government to your colleagues –: We need to act here, here we need to act quickly in order to give people safety. It has been referred to as constitutional security. I think we have to give people the feeling that we are looking at politicians and representing their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5946	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e5967	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant that the criticism of Europe, of the institutions, of politics and of the possibilities of the European Union is formulated by those who are constantly most strongly opposed to a common Europe. I am very much in the analysis of both Mr Strolz and Mr Pilz, that the construction of Europe at the time of the Schengen Agreement – perhaps politically negligent at that time – was probably not designed in the manner we currently consider necessary due to the specific situation at that time. We have to admit that. We have promised freedom of movement to citizens in Europe as a great benefit, which has also been implemented. Many of us still remember the Austrian borders, that it was almost impossible to obtain a visa for Czechoslovakia, the obstacles during a weekend visit to Hungary, the mass stables on the Salzburg border, on the Walserberg, or towards Italy on the Brenner. A generation of young Austrians have already consumed this benefit and can no longer imagine a Europe with borders. At the same time, however, we failed to secure the external borders – from different motives. The threat may not have been foreseeable, but it must also be admitted that hardly a national state is prepared to deliver this agenda for a common European security and defence policy. I think that this is not only unfair, but also missing. The reactions of the Austrians were similar to those in Germany. Please remember the situation a year ago, the terrible pictures of the Mediterranean, but also the small transporter on the A4 with more than 70 dead! At that time, the German Chancellor, based on the conditions in Budapest, said: We create this great challenge! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what else should a Federal Chancellor say? She's supposed to say: We'll never do that!Unknown term type: "%s".? We will not integrate these people, we will not care for them, we will not provide them, we will not ask the NGOs for help!Unknown term type: "%s".? This statement – we have to deal with this problem, we are doing it – as an invitation policy, I think, is an unfrozen statement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hübner and Mr Bösch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must create all the challenges. We must ensure that the living conditions, the social conditions, but also the climate policy, the environmental conditions in Africa, in which countries of the Front Orient are improved. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hübner]] We must work together with the international community of states to ensure peace, social conditions and environmental measures that allow people to stay in their home countries. No one likes to flee, voluntarily. The causes of escape have to be restrained or eliminated – and so I am back to what I said at the beginning of my speech: This requires European, pan-European action, but also strong international organisations. What has been happening in Syria in the last two days was the very opposite of the fact that the United Nations can show strength and strength. But who are the United Nations? – These are again those states, including the members of the UN Security Council, who have different interests, geopolitically, especially as well as economically. That is why I conclude by saying: If we want a common Europe, we must also be prepared to concentrate and pool national competences in Europe. I think we can do this. To create peace and guarantee security is not a contradiction, but rather a condition for one another.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6041	The next speaker was Mr Schönegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6062	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the hall and at home! The question of how Europe is dealing with the ever-increasing pressure to deal with the ever-growing problem of immigration is not a question that can easily be solved in the past. [[Abg. Cute: Who's claiming that?]] But there is no question that is insoluble either. In one we agree: The question cannot be solved, Mr Hübner, if you act with foam in front of the mouth. The question cannot be solved if you approach them with painful naïveness. [[Abg. Hübner: “Wicked Nativity! ”]] Both things will not lead to a solution. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] High house! It is more important to look at different points of view. In addition to the current migration pressure, especially from the Arab region, up to 35 percent of people from African countries want to leave their country, according to a study by the Doha Institute. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Welsh]] In figures, that would mean: 130 million fleeing African people. This would put us in Europe, especially in Austria, in Germany, where, through a very alimentary policy, we are very attracted to people, faced with insoluble problems, and that must be said clearly. It is too little to say in this context: We'll do this! People's groups or communities of faith are increasingly under pressure, so today I'm pleading for the fact that, according to the welcome policy, which was probably correct and important at some point in time, we are now finding a policy of truth. It's high time. That's part of it, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of immigration is also addressed by a renewed anti-Semitism. This anti-Semitism, for example, led to a certain migration trend among French Jews from 2012 to 2015, which has led to tensions in settlement policy in Israel, which in turn causes it to flee there and other things. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is very complicated, and there are certainly no simple answers there. We in Europe have long had to be clear that a number of measures are needed to address this global challenge. Our Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz, who is not present because he was in New York on this very issue, expressed very important and right things in his international speech at the UN refugee and migration summit. Austria has not only been solid in the last year, but has received disproportionately many refugees, so there is no justification for other countries to criticise the necessary national measures. The inclusion of the many people who have come through illegal ways, and the policy of resurgence from the external borders to Central Europe, in fact, have even increased the death rate on the dangerous and unsafe refugee routes. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be our mission, and Sebastian Kurz has put this to the point of protecting the EU's external borders, stopping the inflow to Europe, and for that we must invest in help on the ground. When you consider that you can help 20 people on the spot for a refugee who is being cared for in Austria, we can see how right the Foreign Minister was with this statement. [[Abg. Pilz: Why is not transferred?]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:We do it!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Follow the words actions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pilz, Austria will increase humanitarian aid to € 154 million per year. Austria will quadruple the foreign disaster fund to € 20 million annually. [[Abg. Moser: We hear that many times!]] And with regard to your criticism: I think the word lump has fallen. – A rag is the one who knowingly says the untruth. I don't know if there are such people here. We are still talking about the World Food Programme this year, and you will see the 5 million € promised for 2016. Austria is willing to make its contribution to a secure Europe, so from our point of view, it is welcome that the German army is committed to the international UN mission of Sophia. What's this about? – The aim of this commitment is to combat organised trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings in the Mediterranean and to prevent illegal arms trafficking by sea. I see no problem here, I really see it in line with the Lisbon Treaties. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website The EU regime with Schengen and Dublin was never a rule for a Europe without borders; it was a rule for a Europe without internal borders, with strong external borders. There is no such thing as this, and therefore we are all required to change it very quickly with the help and participation of all European countries. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank God!]] I can recall – because this has come a number of times today as a new proposal –: Two years ago, the then Minister of the Interior Johanna Mikl- Leitner presented the concept of “Save Lives” with precisely these points – waiting zones, protection zones on site, regulated transfer to Europe for those people who are actually persecuted – at European level. I mean, Let's stay on it! We are on a good footing with the Foreign Minister, who has stopped the unbridled inflow with the ÖVP, who has reached a ceiling after too long negotiations. We are far from finished, but the course is right, and together we do so, without foam in front of the mouth and without nativity, in the middle of political life. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6217	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Nice. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6239	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schönegger, you have made two fundamental statements today. [[Abg. Schönegger: More!]] - Well, two fundamental statements. On the one hand, I think you're all right: that the answers are not easy to give. The second statement does not give you so much right, and I believe you yourself are not right if you say that we need a policy of truth. A policy of truth basically means to look things in the eye and name them as they are. And it is not truth policy to distribute placebos or distribute treats treats so that people have something they can talk about, and to distract them from the real problems, but truth policy is to address the real problems. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have mentioned such placebos to the satisfaction; almost all my previous speakers – not all, I take a few – have prayed these placebos, this mantra yes. The first placebo is: We need to protect our external borders. – What, we need to protect our external borders? Yes, no, we have to do that! However, we must protect our external borders also means that there is some concept or plan and a willingness to protect borders. We are not faced with military or armed intervention, but with the situation that people are illegally and massed across borders and are not prevented from doing so. And this does not fail because countries like Italy or Greece have no police or no army, but it fails because they do not. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] It doesn't fail either because Frontex doesn't exist. This does not fail because there are no warships in the Mediterranean that could control or stop the flow of refugees or immigration or migrants. This fails because they do not have an order to do so, because the much-loved operation Sophia, to which we now have to send additional people, is not a border protection organisation in the sense of preventing illegal immigration; rather, it is a towing aid organization that offers attractions for illegal immigration. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] After all, it has no other mission than to "save" people under quotations, that is, to take 10 nautical miles off the border and to create Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] She has no order to bring back illegal immigrants, she has the placebo order to fight the tugs. But it does not do that, but it does nothing but carry out free transport services from North Africa to Europe. That is what they do, and it will do the same if we send 200 or 300 gendarmen – or as Mr. Puls's colleague, some Austrian naval units – there as long as the order is not changed. And he's not being changed! Although Juncker has talked a lot about the existential crisis and about the European army and European foreign protection – we must, we want to! – and more cooperation, but he said no word about defining the task. Not a word of it: Our task is to send back illegal immigrants. The task of the EU is to move local illegals back to the countries. The task is to force all countries to conclude withdrawal agreements without delay. No word of it! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Doppler and Mr Franz.]] That is, at European level, there are no even approaches to being prepared to tackle this issue. If one is now talking about the need for a European army, then that is probably the joke of the century, because where is there a military threat to Europe? Where are the enemies making an invasion? Where do we need military defence? We need the political will to stop and control illegal mass immigration and to name things! That's what's missing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need the political will to force those Schengen members who uncontrollably and unrestrictedly allow illegal mass immigration to stop doing so. We need the political will to prevent Italy and Greece from letting their army and their police look away and swing people through. But there are no approaches to this. Have you ever heard a criticism from the Luxembourg Foreign Minister of Greece and Italy? Not me. The only criticism I have heard, including Mr Juncker, is that of Hungary, because the Hungarians comply with the Schengen laws, because they take their obligations seriously, because they treat illegal immigration as what it is, namely as a criminally relevant act. As long as this rethinking does not exist, we do not need to spread sand to people and talk about European initiatives and more Europe, but there is nothing left but to protect our own borders. Then there is nothing left but to see and treat the asylum system as it is today: This is no longer a protection for politically persecuted people, as it is based on the Geneva Convention in 1948, but it is a legal instrument today to put illegal mass immigration in Europe on a shaky legal footing and we should not give in to it. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6334	Now the Member of the European Parliament is coming to Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6356	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is really interesting that what we are constantly experiencing in the European Parliament is reflected here as well. What comes from the FPÖ, in the European Parliament from your group, the ENF, Mrs Le Pen and all of them, is a permanent myth and fairy tale story. [[Abg. Honey: Where's a fairy tale?]] They're talking about truth, of you making truth policy. I can only laugh about it. [[Abg. That's what you're allowed to do!]] Unfortunately, it's sore. They create the myth that the European army is now immediately coming. If you had listened to Mr Juncker, Mr Vilimsky, or others, you would have known it was far and wide from a European army. Yes, a headquarters for cooperation, and I do not think this is the final conclusion of wisdom either, but a European army is simply not on the agenda, neither in Austria, we are on the ground of neutrality, which Mr Pilz has explained very precisely, nor in Europe. Can you imagine that countries like France would be willing to give up their own army for a European army? – Far from it. [[Abg. Hauser: You have to tell your colleague Pilz!]] That is to say, stop creating myths here, telling fairy tales that are only aimed at what you really want to say, because you want to leave the EU – the FPÖ as well as their partners in the ENF – and that you want to destroy this European Union! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Last week in Strasbourg, Mrs. Le Pen – Mr. Vilimsky, perhaps you listened when she spoke – said whether she really wanted the Frexit: Yes, of course she wants a referendum for it and this frexit. - That's your policy. They want to destroy this common Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You don't want to improve it, you don't want it any more, you just don't want it, just like Mrs. Le Pen. Do the same thing You may also have this policy in this presidential election campaign, which we still have until the 4th century. ==References== [[Abg. Kickl: This is abuse of the right of speech in there!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Tell us something at last!]] To you, Minister Doskozil: You and some others have said that you are proud that Austria will be involved in the control of the external borders, in protecting the external borders with soldiers. – Soldiers are not the ones to control borders, that is to do the police and not soldiers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We in the European Parliament are also committed to the fact that there is not only a police that does this, but there are also people from human rights organisations who are looking to see that things are right when people flee. These are those who are trying to come by a wacky boat from Turkey or from Libya to Italy or to Greece. You don't just take this risk so much for fun that you sit in such a boat and pay thousands of euros for any tugs. That is to say, there is a need for a common procedure for the European Union. We don't have this yet. The four Visegrád states – you said they lost confidence in the European level – are supposed to be the governments of Hungary, Mr Orban, but also the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland. [[Call the FPÖ: Not just the four!]] The governments of these countries – and in some cases the people themselves in the governments at that time – voted in favour of the Lisbon Treaty, agreed that solidarity is a principle of this European Union, that there must be a common asylum and migration policy and not one in which a state says: No, we're not! [[Abg. Kickl: They're inviting one of them, and they're supposed to pick up the other people!]] And no one can explain it to me – nobody! – that it is not possible for a place with a population of 1,000 to record ten people. No one can explain this to me, and it also works very often and very well, also in Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe people don't want it there! Have you thought about it before?]] You know what? – Next week, an initiative from Marchfeld, where several communities take up refugees together, will be awarded to people in Marchfeld, the European Citizens' and Citizens' Prize. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what it's all about. It works. This works in Austria and it works, for example, in Poland. I know even initiatives where it works. Governments don't want this, it's not the EU, it's not always the "evil" EU debt. We are the EU, and this would be my request, especially to ÖVP and SPÖ, to those who are mayors who are in the European Community Day: Talk to your colleagues from the municipalities in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, France and elsewhere, so that more refugees can take up. If it does not even succeed in distributing 160 000 from Italy and Greece in the EU with 28 states and 500 million people, it is a shame, not for the EU, but for all of us, for this common Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6505	Next speaker: Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6526	Mr President. Federal Minister! I believe that the few things we can all agree on here are what Jean-Claude Juncker said, namely that the European Union is not in top shape. There are the liberals of the same opinion. What do you do if an institution or anything is in crisis? – You can see if you can generate appropriate opportunities from it. Mr Vilimsky has also seen opportunities, he sees only opportunities other than those I see and also see Jean-Claude Juncker. [[Call the FPÖ:Don't do anything!]] But after all, you see a chance in a crisis. Then there are different possibilities: I can see that I am going more into national solutions. That is what the liberals propose and what they believe is right. They have no conviction. Nevertheless, I am convinced of what Jean-Claude Juncker has proposed, namely that more European solutions are needed. If Jean-Claude Juncker has proposed that it needs clear European solutions, especially in connection with the question of security, then I think the proposals that are coming now are very sensible and very correct proposals. Yes, we need a common European border and Coast Guard, and we need to see that we can secure and protect the external borders – in which we are probably all agreed – accordingly. What we've seen is that we haven't done this in recent years. This requires appropriate measures, and they are useful when they are established at European level, because they are common European external borders and not just the borders of some national states which are just at this external border. That is why I also think the proposal makes sense that in the future it should be possible even against the will of the respective national governments to send border guards to the European external border, because then we finally understand it as what it is: It is a European task of all 27 or 28 Member States to protect the common external border, and it is not just the task of Greece, Italy and Spain, but of all of us, if we want this Europe, as we have chosen, to continue to exist. The second point here, which is also new in the discussion, is that these new European authorities should have the opportunity to organise deportations for those who do not have the appropriate residence status. This is also something that the liberals constantly demand, which they are right to do – and we have often introduced this – that there must be readmission agreements with countries from which people who do not have the right status to live. We have also repeatedly made the same demand that there should be sanctions when countries fail to do so, and that is precisely where the EZA funds are to be used. Nevertheless, I still think it is right for Europe to move forward together and together try to achieve these agreements with the countries concerned. Which is also right – you have to say that –: Europe has not been very fast in recent years, we are negotiating for a very long time, but I believe that it is more useful, as a result, to create these readmission agreements together, and that is why we need a determined approach. Mr Juncker also spoke about the Defence Union. Now we can discuss it a long time and a long time, but the fact is that the opportunities for cooperation, increased cooperation and, as so often in the EU, the national states are saying: We're not going there, we don't want to! As has been said, the FPÖ is not aware, I have another and I believe that the European solution is the more sensible. We have also heard Donald Tusk's statement on the EU's main committee, the Foreign Minister has mentioned that we need to see that we prevent people from coming directly to Europe when they are picked up in the Mediterranean. I continue to believe that it is important that we save people in the Mediterranean. I think someone who thinks we shouldn't do that is kind of inhuman. Nevertheless, this can only be part of the solution. You have to keep discussing. Mr Schönegger also raised an important question here, namely how we finance the camps on the ground. Yes, we all hope that these payments will finally come, but it is similar to the resettlement programmes: We hear a lot, but very little happens. That is why the criticism is clearly justified in putting it there. And yes, if we want people not to get on the road and try to get to Europe by boat in the Mediterranean, then we need to be more closely involved in the resettlement programmes. Over the past few years, Austria has included almost 1,900 people over a resettlement programme, so we do not need to be surprised that people are getting on the way if they do not have the legal opportunity to enter and on the other hand we do not make the appropriate financial resources available. That is, in my opinion, it is clear what we need: We need a more Europe. We need common European reception centres at the external borders. We need a common European solidarity distribution of refugees because, if we do so together, we will also be able to do so. We need common European return agreements with the countries that people who do not have the opportunity to stay here with us because they do not have a right to stay will also be reduced together. We need a common security of the European external borders, because this will only work together at EU level. That means the result is quite clear: We need to work on more Europe, more European solutions. Whoever refuses to do so basically does nothing but scatter sand into the eyes of humans, for nationally it will not work.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6567	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6588	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Doskozil, you have said a beautiful sentence in your statement, namely that you do not want it as it was last year, when countless people were swept by Austria, without controls, without any other, than there are no limits, no controls, nothing. I think we can all agree with that, no one wants it anymore. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But with that, we already have it with the common similarities. If I have listened to today's debate and gather together what has now happened, there is relatively little left. We know, unfortunately, that there are not many similarities, and unfortunately you in the government are often disagreed on important points too. Only on a number of specific points is there already a consensus on the matter of you and Foreign Minister Kurz; and I would like to speak on that point immediately. I'd like to go back a little bit: ==References== In August 2015, Frank Stronach demanded protection zones in the summer talks, UN protection zones. [[Abg. Bösch: Who? What's his name?]] This proposal was a bit smiled, then something ridiculous was written about it, and see, shortly thereafter, on 18th. September 2015, Foreign Minister Kurz has also called for these protection zones and the EU's waiting camps, which we have repeatedly called for. We have, of course, supported this subject with proposals and have repeatedly been put in place and remain on this issue. What has happened in the relevant committees? – The applications were rejected with respect. On the one hand, it is said that there is a consensus that we must do something – Foreign Minister Kurz and also you, Minister, have supported these protection zones – but nothing will be implemented. You're always talking, but you're not acting. You have to make this accusation happen, you have to do it here. I can, of course, give my assent to Mr Lopatka's statement, if he believes that the borders must be protected and we must act, only: Your speech does not follow! Protect boundaries and give security – yes! – but where are the measures that will allow this to happen? I ask you, and remain an answer to that. She's been guilty not only today, but all the time. Now I'd like to have an interview with you on the 8th. In June of this year, I mentioned briefly, and you, Minister Doskozil, are entitled in the “Small Newspaper”: ‘Doskozil proposes asylum centres in North Africa’. And then we're going to go on: "Doskozil wants to establish asylum centres in North Africa, according to the media report. In order to lay down the craftsmanship, only asylum applications filed there are to be accepted. Minister Kurz welcomed the move.” Now we have here a point where there is a unity in which something can be implemented together, but nothing happens. Why is nothing going on for so long? There are no protection zones, there are no such asylum centres on the ground. There's nothing. It's always being beautifully spoken, and there's no solution. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, look at the reactions of the population! I don't know if you get e-mails from concerned citizens. I don't know if you're in contact with people outside the voters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] We say this very, very many, and we are constantly in contact with and in exchange with voters, because this is an important topic and because you cannot leave people in the country unlimited. Hungary is criticized for complying with the laws that it protects its own population with fence construction. And what about the EU in respect of a Member State, namely the Luxembourg Foreign Minister? – He wants to exclude Hungary from the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it is! Hungary has shown how it is. We should not look negatively at Hungary, because Hungary protects its own population, protects against irregular inflow and from crime and everything that goes with it – terrorism et cetera –; we know all of this. Finally, I would like to urge you once again to take action as it really is, and to implement the few commons you have for the Austrian population! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6637	The Member of the European Parliament has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6658	Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen. We went to medical ground today, it was spoken of by Placebos and the placebo effect, and the colleague wanted us to know that it is a placebo when we talk about protecting the common external borders, namely the common protection of the external borders. In response, he gave us a drug: Walls around the Member States. In the sense of subsidiarity, I would ask: Let us also do the same about the individual regions, about the individual municipalities, because that would be living subsidiarity! However, he did not tell us about his medication, which side effects are associated with this blockage. When I lock out, I lock in too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] He has not said in any way how this affects our common European economic policy, the internal market, how it affects the freedom of our young people to experience education in other Member States. All of this is not happening in the discussions and contributions that we have heard today. If we speak of healing, of effect, then we must take up what the Minister said at the outset: There is a good solution and there is a better solution. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: No solution at all, Mrs. Colleague!]] If the better solution is not yet implemented together, there may have to be the good solution as a first step. We need to see that we protect what we regard as values in our nation state. But that doesn't mean we can lose sight of the other. The problem we are dealing with is a very complex one. There's no drug, there's only one interplay, a total medical consideration. It has already been carried out by my previous speakers today: This wave of migration in Europe is triggered by a variety of failures. It is triggered by a climate policy that produces climate refugees and thus – we always say – economic refugees. We have natural disasters to answer; and in many areas we have also experienced a way of looking at military conflicts. [[Abg. Kickl: Why are everyone just fleeing north?]] That means the first point must be: It is not just about coming to Austria, not just about coming to Vienna or Lower Austria, it is about the common European Union. It is about fighting first of all the heatherds and looking at the fact that, together with the international community of states, we are ensuring that people are not forced to lose their homes at all. As a second step: Where at the moment these crisis spots are, we need near protection zones to allow people to return without putting themselves at great risk. We need – and this has already been mentioned today – a development policy and development funds worth their names. They're not alms. It is not a question of stopping people somewhere in the Third World in emerging countries. This is about making the continent Europe a humane region and involving the rest of the world in this human world. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] It is not just a question of security that soldiers are on the border somewhere. It is about social security and economic security. Let us not forget intra-European migration! If we simply see how in some regions 50 percent of young people do not find a job: This too is migration that we must fight together! Commission President Juncker has been quoted several times today, but no one has said that Juncker has also recognized what we Socialists have been demanding for years, namely that we should invest in the economy in Europe in this European Union, in the European Union, because if we do not, we will not only promote migration outside the European Union, but also within the European Union. Here too, it is important to start. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, we need this common protection of the European external borders, and we will only bring it under common pressure. I am very glad that we EU MEPs today have the opportunity to exchange with you, because Europe is all, and the EU institutions must play together. We need to be able to build confidence again. I often feel it's being played out to each other: There are those of the Council, there are those of the European Parliament, there are the national and regional parliaments, and we are far too rarely seen as a player who wants to move something together for this common Europe. That is why I say today with the words of our Minister: The best solution is a common European solution. We are working together on this European solution. Let us restore the confidence of the members of these European houses, of these European institutions! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Let us not try to play each other out, for together we are surely closer to a goal than if we are constantly insecured by hatred, envy, anxiety! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6745	Mr Becker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6767	Mr President. High house! Dear visitors to the gallery and very much to watch the ORF! On the one hand, I would like to make it clear that most of the problems we face in national and European policy have been caused by the fact that the safeguarding of the EU's external borders has not been achieved for a long time. [[call to the FPÖ.]] For example, Europe was practically surprised by the wave of migration, and unlike the most successful immigration states in history – USA, Australia and Canada – which for over 100 years have operated a consistent external border protection with all the means, including the armed ones – with ships, aircraft, satellites and today with drones – it has given a clear stand to the European governments: They never did their job. You then, when the EU Commission became active, of course, to see common border security as an urgent issue, with reference to the intervention on national sovereignty, even partially depleted and, in most cases, offendedly responded to the fact that the States are not given the confidence to deal with this task. Today we know: You didn't handle it. [[Abg. Beautiful: Affirmed...!]] – So much for the unexistent willingness of the individual governments of the EU to a common foreign, defence and security policy. And this is a necessary recognition of all of us, for that is the reason that Juncker speaks very kindly of the fact that the EU is not in top shape today. Recognizing the need to take such action, the European Commission has already responded in 2015 with a package of more than a hundred individual measures and initiatives, which have also been carried out by the European Parliament in the accelerated procedure, and which – you hear and marvel – have received approval from the governments of the Council. But: Member States have not implemented most of this to date. I believe that the full realization that no individual Member State can solve the challenges alone needs to be sufficient today to understand those who not only demand solidarity in action but also solidarity with those countries that do not fulfil their tasks. Austria plays an extremely important role in the solution process. “Save Lives” has already been mentioned; Minister Mikl- Leitner presented this to me in the Committee of the European Parliament, since it has now been adopted by the Commission and signed by all Member States. [[Complementary of the Abg. Aubauer.]] I am sure, even if it is not implemented, that this is a future solution, because one of the prerequisites – in addition to safeguarding external borders – is that we resolve the problem of asylum first and foremost with reception centres before entering European soil and carry out the examinations and the appropriate controls there. [[Complementary of the Abg. Aubauer.]] The safeguarding of the EU's external borders by Italy and Greece is an issue that absolutely justifies the transformation of Frontex into a European coastal and border protection unit. It will last forever; in October of this year, in perhaps three weeks, it will finally be valid. But I'll say it right away: These many hundred people, whom we will have in addition, do not solve the problem. This is not, as it were, the latte of external border protection that we need. I do not want to hide without a humorous remark that there have already been a lot of measures taken by our government partner here in Austria – with enormous delay. We also experience this in the European Parliament, as with passenger data: At some point, an advance of the ÖVP or EPP is also recognized as correct. It is just as yesterday at the Federal Chancellor who wants to write the Marshall Plan on his flags. It's been a year since we presented this. [[Abg. Kickl:... inspected!]] It is half a year since I presented this in the European Parliament with a conference. It is three weeks ago that with 200 economic operators exactly the concept that Juncker is now also presenting – investments to give people in Africa a life perspective – is supported. I thank you for all of you who are working on this work.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6856	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6877	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weninger, because you are just sitting here in front of me: They are really one of the last European politicians, as I believe the Chancellor Merkel's statement, that we will do everything we can, and that this kind of welcome culture is a good thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You seem to have hidden, Mr. Cot, that this statement and this welcome culture are partly responsible for the dead on the refugee routes and for the drowned in the Mediterranean. Please be always aware of this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Weninger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this current European hour has the protection of Austrian borders on the subject. This is an important issue; I thank colleagues from the Stronach team for this. The Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Defense, who a year ago also put this issue in the sand for our Republic, are – thank God! – today’s story. We have another German chancellor today, we also have another Minister of Defence today. And I am glad, Minister Doskozil, that you have the agendas in relation to the Austrian federal army today, because you seem to be one of the few ministers of this federal government who really take it seriously with the interests of the Republic and its people. However, you are in the Federal Government on something lonely, and I hope that you can continue your policy as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] They are preparing the Austrian Federal Army to secure the borders of the Republic as an assistant force with the forces of the Interior Minister or also in the independent military procedure. This is excellent, and this is incredibly important in terms of the development in which Austria is currently located, because Austria is in an emergency. The lid is still on top of it, but, ladies and gentlemen, the flame that nourishes the heat below has not yet gone out, which burns. It is therefore important that we take rapid action. And because Europe fails, these measures must be put at national level. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] But we have also heard the speeches of the Greens and other Members, ladies and gentlemen, and something, Minister of Defence Doskozil, must be clear to you: If we have a green President, you will no longer be able to carry on your consistent policy! And, ladies and gentlemen, something must also be clear to you – I say that towards ÖVP –: If we have a green President, your Sebastian Kurz will not be able to implement his announced policy either. Sebastian Kurz – I am helping you to jump – is that man who will help you not to sink into the abysses of political nothing at the forthcoming National Council election. You need to be careful of that! Watch out, because it can only do its policy if Norbert Hofer is the Federal President! Keep saying this in your organizations! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, particularly Mr Pilz. No freeman wants to leave the European Union. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Brosz.]] However, we liberals want a reform of the European Union because it has failed on crucial issues. You know, the President of the EU Commission is already further in his knowledge than you are. [[Abg. Pillow: Go, go, go!]] He said: Europe is abject due to its lack of policy. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Mr Pilz.]] Europe is on the brink of its own failure and of its own fault, Mr Pilz. They don't want to do anything about it; also Your presidential candidate doesn't want to do anything about it, it doesn't matter. He wants this EU policy to be continued as before and that Europe does not get away with this abyss. [[Abg. Pilz: Öxite fraction!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have clear and rapid action to take. We have to close the borders of the Republic because Austria is in an emergency. We have brought back those who are unjust, and we have to say to those who receive a residence permit under the right of asylum that they must return if the asylum ground is to be removed. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be a matter of course for a federal government to do so. And you also shared the competences properly when you were attacked, Minister of State. However, I have not yet heard from any Minister, nor from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, that he will also say to these people who are granted asylum here that they will return to their home countries if the asylum ground is lost. We should hand this office over to the Minister for Integration. That would be wonderful, I think, if Sebastian Kurz were not only Minister of Integration, but also Minister of Home Affairs, with the clear goal – and that was a keyword from you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – that asylum is only a right to time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e6991	The next speaker was Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7012	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I've been waiting all morning for the election program to begin. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But let us leave the church in the village, Mr. Bösch! It is not the politicians who are working for a European solution, namely for more and not less Europe, who are responsible for the fact that people in the sea have to die, but it is the war in Syria and it is the policy of the European Union that simply wants to protect the external borders radically. [[Abg. Steinbichler:... percent are economic refugees!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It is not European politicians who are committed to solidarity. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it sounds like Austria and the member countries of the European Union are not part of the international community. All the previous speeches here sounded as if the Austrian Parliament was leaning back, and we think, Well, let's look at how we secure our own borders, but what happens outside the borders, that doesn't interest us all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] – This is the completely wrong way as part of the European Union and as part of the international community. It has always been a consensus – that is true in Europe – that there must also be European external borders in the Schengen area, namely an area without controls. That was always consensus, ladies and gentlemen. The question is just how exactly this consensus is formulated and designed, and I think that the national states are more likely to move towards less Europe. That, I think, is the wrong way, but especially when it comes to external borders, it takes more Europe and a common European solution to this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What does that mean?]] I assume, ladies and gentlemen, that you know the geographical situation, especially at the borders of Malta, Italy and Greece. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: With such statements you can blow up highest balloons!]] I think the geographical conditions are clear to you all: A sea border is not a country border. I would also like to make it clear here that, for example, the Italian Coast Guard - I was also allowed to visit them, even in their headquarters in Rome - has a clear orientation, namely saving lives, saving people who are in distress. And that is the task of the Coast Guard, and for that it also needs more, rather than less financial means, for all the coastguards at the borders. That people in need must always be saved is, I believe, just as consensus. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What do we do with the Gerettes? Next step...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: To Europe or back to Africa?]] Furthermore, it is equally true, ladies and gentlemen, that there is war in Syria. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Also in Senegal? Also in Morocco...!]] I do not think we need to discuss this at all. 300 000 dead, 13 million people need humanitarian aid, some millions of people are on the run, as we all know. The UN General Assembly is currently taking place, of which Austria is also a member of the UN. In his speech, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon again strongly criticized the international community, and I quote: “Mighty patrons who continue feeding the war machine also have blood on their hands.” Ban Ki-moon also said that in the plenary session there were representatives of governments who ignored, made possible, financed, involved, or even planned and executed atrocities against the Syrian people. And the UN Help Organisations continue to cry out for financial support. The Secretary-General clearly states that the UN Member States also have their own responsibility that they can not only see people dying that there is a need for protection zones directly in northern Syria, in order to actually protect the civilian population, that it needs the end of the bombing, just over aid convoys. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is the worst of the arrogance in such situations that auxiliary convoys are bombarded, food and medicine cannot be supplied and the international helpers are also killed. It is also a responsibility of the Austrian Federal Government to take the step forward and to say clearly in the UN General Assembly: Yes, we need these protection zones. Yes, we need the protection of the helpers. Yes, we need more money for UN aid organizations, primarily for the World Food Programme. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, last year there was still €6 million from Austria, nothing this year. That's a shame! We are part of this responsibility within the international community, and if there is no help on the ground, there will be no salvation of people, ladies and gentlemen, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7145	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7168	Mr President. Minister! High house! We have already heard a lot about truth and the need for true concepts in politics. As a doctor, it is extremely important to use the right terminology and use the right terms, especially when it comes to migration and refugee policy. I notice that we still call all the immigrants refugees flat-rate, although we know very well that about half or even 60 percent of all migrants are illegal economic migrants, deserters or other invaders who want to come to us to stay here. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: These are only Syrians!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must finally get away from this false concept. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] This is the first and most important point to a successful therapy of this whole problem, which is no longer to be overcome. The Geneva Convention on Refugees is also, as we know, when we go to the bottom of it, because only one means: It applies to almost none of the arrivals – most likely for the Christians who have to flee for religious reasons, for all others or for almost all others it simply does not apply, and we have no other tool at present to classify the migrants properly. My question is: What is going on, why are we constantly communicating these false messages, why is politics and especially the media-political complex not finally going through to a true and accurate concept? Please, we must use the ordinary terms and the right word, that is our basic duty to the people. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hagen and Mr Steinbichler on his report.]] If we are already pursuing the wrong policy, please use at least the right expressions! That would be my call to politics and specifically to the government. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No real word, Mrs. Lunacek? Just for the record: Mrs. Lunacek shakes the head!]] For border protection: Mr Minister, what you are saying is all very sympathetic and quite supportive, but I am unfortunately seeing God's policy of announcement. I hope that these many words will also follow suit. If we recapitulate briefly: Since 2015, due to the lack of border controls, we have a continuing breach of justice, which is justified by humanity – that is always the headline. From my point of view, however, this breach is not justified, and there are already sufficient opinions from state and international lawyers et cetera. We are living in the condition of a chronic and continued breach of justice, which is still supported by humanitarian arguments. From my point of view, this is not acceptable, nor from the point of view of the population, because I experience it every day. I am in contact with many patients who come to me in the ordination, not only to be treated but also to tell me and ask me: Please, Mr Doctor, what is happening in politics, what is all this about, what do you tell us every day, day out for lies? The newspapers are full of lies, the politics spreads falsehoods, uses the false terms et cetera. – The population has finally enough, and I think it is time to really devote itself to the truth and, above all, to giving up this humane suffocation. It's not human, when hundreds of thousands of people come across the border, live here at our expense, and half of them never get the right to stay here, but still stay here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheelers in the direction of the Greens.]] This is really bad from my point of view, and it hurts Austria. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hagen and Mr Steinbichler on his report.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] I ask for a border closure, which can be read in all my statements of the last months and in my blog, in the sense of rigorous control. We have to check exactly who's coming in here at the borders. From my point of view and from the point of view of every person who knows himself a little legally, it is completely legitimate, since the army is using the Austrian army for border protection. Minister, prove strength, put two tanks on the burner! In this way, we would have a nice picture in all the media, which the arrivals could also send home – via non-lost iPhone – that there is quite a strong demonstration here on the Austrian border. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Lintl.]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] On the feedbacks that have already been addressed several times today: This small number of returns must be argued out by nothing. What is the argument of the Austrian minimum pensioners, Austrian minimum pensioners et cetera, that for years people live on our costs, who do not have the right to stay, and where obviously no one is able to reach an agreement with countries that would immediately take back the people – for example Morocco, Libya, Algeria and Cetera –? [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Why is no one leaving the government and making a special agreement with Algeria or Libya? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] In my opinion, this is a matter of two conversations with the message and a bit of money you have to pay. As we know and have heard today, the provision of the people down there costs a twenty-seventh of what it costs. From my point of view, it would also be urgently necessary to reduce the number of immigrants, the number of those who come to us, to those who really need protection and help, and that is now the Christians in the Middle East who are in front of extinction, which can be seen from all the newspaper reports and reports. We can go here as an Austrian state – and we have the right – and say: We only accept Christians, for this is that group of people in the Middle East whose lives are really threatened. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Of course, the EU has already been addressed a number of times. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] From my point of view, we cannot forget the EU, we are part of this EU, but we can and must forget and even forget about migration in Brussels and Berlin and instead turn to Visegrád. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7308	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7329	Mr President. Federal Minister! For Austria, far-reaching problems arise with the wave of refugees, safeguarding borders and the EU, which I believe may at least be discussed at a current European hour. Membership in the European Union is becoming an increasing burden for Austria as a net payer. Financial shares, financial marode are to be addressed Greek banks, the wave of refugees and, in particular, the billion-dollar Pact with Turkey and the economic embargo on Russia. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The European Union is far from the United States, with the United States as the major beneficiaries. US exports to Russia are marked by a marked increase, but for Austria, there is a significant decline in exports. The Federal Government is invited to take immediate action and to put an end to the economic embargo. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] A country as extremely undemocratic as Turkey, which is mostly associated with the Asian region, has not lost anything in a democratically-led European Union. The demonstrations that have been shaken out of the sleeves per Erdoğan are to be stopped in a sustainable manner as well as in the form of parallel societies. Integration is often seen as a failure, with no integration at all at the expense of our culture. The accession negotiations with Turkey must be terminated immediately. Furthermore, the Free Trade Agreements are to be addressed, with CETA's signature in the immediate future. Austria's quality of goods is to be described as high-quality and this standard is to be maintained. An adjustment to a lower standard cannot be tolerated. The beneficiaries of free trade agreements are only large companies; small and medium-sized enterprises will not benefit from a favoured export, so that further jobs appear to be at risk. A legal improvement of large companies through a planned turn of evidence cannot be accepted. It is also necessary to rethink the import of genetically modified food in the event of a ban on genetic change. In conclusion, the question is as follows: How long can Austria afford such a European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7386	Mrs Winter's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7408	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary and at home in front of the screens! Can you recall the problems we faced during the parliamentary break? – Yes, exactly: Refugees, legitimate immigration, migrants, border closures or whatever and the question: What is the EU doing? With exactly the same topics, we are here again today. And what happened in the meantime? Obviously, with the Austrian Federal Government some things, as we could hear today, but I have to say honestly: Mr Minister, I have not heard anything about the fact that, as Ultima Ratio, you would also consider closing the borders of Austria. I would also like to say: It doesn't matter to the Austrian population whether police or Gendarmerie or military are on the borders – it only wants to feel secure here in its home, in Austria, and to be able to determine itself. There seems to have been nothing happening in the EU except declarations of intent. I have to say to Mr Vilimsky with a “Keep Smile”: Was it not your desire to come to the EU so that you can renew the EU from within? better? What have you achieved on this issue? - Nothing. That's what I said, but it doesn't matter. However, something has already happened, and the Merkel finally has its saying – we can do it, we can do it – and it is no longer alternatives. This is a very positive thing, although we still do not know what it actually wants and what it does not want. Something else has happened, and there has recently been this EU summit in Bratislava, almost as a signal against chaos. And what happened in Bratislava? – Well, Bulgaria is bordering Turkey with high-performance transistors, and there is an online register for travellers to Europe. Well, that's probably not going to be wisdom at last! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we simply cannot solve this problem of inflowing migrants and mass immigration if we do not directly address the problems as such. There are two categories of problems: We have some problems here in Europe, in the form that we say: We don't have a circular economy, we're taking advantage of Africa to the no-one else, and we're taking care of how people are doing there. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Schittenhelm.]] Another problem is that we have subsidized industries that are still disrupting the African economy, which you are not doing well. If you think in addition of the overfishing of the seas, then once you have finished our dinging. The second category, which is also true, concerns these wars in the name of terror. More and more people are questioning the war against terrorism and know very well that it is at the heart of geostrategy, of raw materials, of oil, of gas, of power and of money. All old wine in new hoses! We in Europe want to agree, we need a surveillance state and we need to abolish the cash in order to combat terrorism. - We don't need all of that. What we need is a great increase in honesty in the press and in the media and much less NATO in Europe, because, ladies and gentlemen: Have you even heard about sometime in the media or read that NATO was waging and also leading war without a UN mandate in Serbia, Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and Libya? What we have is clearly a vicious circle of violence and counter-violence. History teaches continuously, but unfortunately it does not find any students – even here in Parliament. If the European Union is not able to protect the external borders, we must, then, the Austrian Government must protect our people and our state borders, with the provision and the requirement that the people who are here and are rightly here, experience a corresponding integration, that we should, however, separate ourselves from the people who are not right here, and that we – in fact, there should be reception camps in North Africa – provide assistance there too. Now there is a little cream cell, because it is always said that Mrs Mikl- Leitner is the one who has propagated so much these shelter camps in North Africa: I can show you something, you can also read it in the media. In 2009, I made a press release in Graz City, that one should finally make these shelter camps in North Africa to protect people from drowning in the sea – after all, it is also better and more pleasant for them to be in their usual environment. Ladies and gentlemen! You must not forget one thing: We, humanity, are a solidarity, and we must and must not be separated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7483	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[12:33:31]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7504	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[12:33:43]] Request for a short debate on the response to the question 8855/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7658	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 8855/AB to Question 9252/J by Mr Mag. Mr Kogler, colleagues, on the dramatic risks posed by the CETA Free Trade Agreement by the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Wheeler: Aha!]] This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7684	Let's go into the agenda. A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 5.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 74, FPÖ 69, Green 58, NEOS and STRONACH each 30 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 15 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We come to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:35:29]] 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1814/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971 (1257 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7743	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7772	Mr National Council President! Minister of the Interior! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It must be borne in mind that this shift of elections, which we are discussing today, is a real testimonie to poverty. It's a blamage for Austria in Germany and abroad, you won't pass it. This is a sad development, for which I do not think there is an excuse. The “Süddeutsche Zeitung” even wrote, I quote: “Loriot would have had his joy (...). Sobotka refers to the ‘technical situation of the glue’ or its ‘technical defect’. That would be wonderful funny formulations if it were not so embarrassing.” That's what it's all about. We obviously had a printing company that had been awarded this patented system for quite some time, then under Mrs Fekter, after an EU-wide call for proposals. [[Abg. Fekter: After an EU-wide call for proposals!]] Incidentally, the managing director of the printing company, who is responsible for this, is from your region in Upper Austria and is close to the Economic Federation. [[Ah-and-oh call at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fekter: In 2003 we have already...!]] I don't want to talk about the economy of friends, not a question, but this closeness seems to be there, and you can't just wipe it away. [[Abg. Fekter: This is a submission, Mr. Strache!]] [[Abg. Wheelers:... Conspiracy theories!]] Then there's a new glue that's been guilty of all this absurd farce. Silvia Strasser of the Federal Criminal Office has explained that I quote them: “We have found that the printing company has used a new glue for the production of the electoral cards, which has not yet been used in the elections.” Interesting! [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] That means: Have you followed the contracts there or not? Was a glue used for the first time, or was it perhaps already used before? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Finally, there have already been such developments in the past. In fact, problems have occurred in the 2013 National Council election. At that time a report was also published in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 27. ==References====External links==* Official website This Austrian writes literally – in 2013! – has received this espionage envelope, as follows: “Protection film removed, election card glued with solid pressure, election process completed. I am now trying to reopen the electoral card without damaging the intrusion. See, without tools with the bare fingers, too, up, too – no problem at all, no damage. The glue used is simply too weak.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That was 2013: an Austrian citizen living abroad, who wanted to vote by letter election and who noticed this, and a newspaper report, also from 2013, which gives the clear indication that the problem had already existed before – by the way, also at the ÖH election, where there was evidence of such developments and one could open, stick to, open and stick to the letter election envelopes. That has already been the subject at the time! If it is said that the Ministry of Science was informed at the time: We are dealing with a government, and I assume that the Ministry of Science will, of course, have informed the Ministry of the Interior so that such a thing can be stopped at elections in the future and no longer occur. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: I'm not so sure!]] You have to question that. Of course, this is subject to supervision, and in the case of a functioning control management, it is natural to stop such faulty developments, which have been made aware of this. That's what I'm asking myself: Did you do that? And if not: Why not? – This is now evident in the election re-election, which, as defined by the Constitutional Court, took place on 2 July. October should have taken place because the last election was cancelled and cancelled, due to massive illegalities, because of the situation that officials – officials! – as District Electoral Authority Leaders before the time unlawfully without constituency, over 500 000 post-election cards have been sorted in advance and over 125 000 post-election cards have been opened and thus perhaps God knows what has been done so that at least the manipulation door and gate have been opened. [[Abg. Fekter: Because the Freemen...!]] [[Abg. Brosz: They didn't sort out in advance at all...!]] That was the reason why the Constitutional Court lifted the last election: to restore confidence in the rule of law and democracy. And then something like this happens at a re-election that happens at 2. It was decided on October! After that, you really have to say: Incredible! This shift is certainly one of the biggest embarrassments in the Second Republic, and this, of course, has to do with the history and with these massive violations of laws and irregularities. [[Abg. Moser: Because you are the state printing...!]] If the Ministry's side of the meeting now brings in inadequate quality assurance in the electoral card printing, I wonder why the ministry in the past did not cause it to control the election envelopes in a sample manner, and that is, right after pressure, because from the beginning it could be found: There's something wrong with that, we're knocking it, we're not sending it out, we're making a safe reprint and we're sending it right to ensure a correct election date. – All of this apparently did not happen, not even the sample-like control. The printing company is Austria's only company that can produce the legally prescribed election envelopes, and has even held a patent on it since 2011, so that only this printing company can make the construction of a letter dial envelope. That's what I'm asking myself: Why has the Ministry of the Interior not been concerned that, in the event of such a failure, which is possible, as one can see – it has already been shown in the past – one has a second printing plant in place in order to ensure a secure production when such a faulty production occurs? These are exactly the crucial questions that need to be asked. But you should take a closer look at this printing: According to a report of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” of 25. In November 2014, the printing company apparently had to delete 39 jobs already in 2014. The most up-to-date balance sheet of this printing company: ==References====External links== In January 2015, a negative result of more than €800 000 and a balance sheet loss of almost half a million euros was reported. – Well, that’s not all very trusting. In any case, at least the responsibilities must be established, and when it comes to responsibilities, I admit: The Minister of the Interior will certainly be speaking and replying, what he knew and whether he was informed or not, but he is only relatively new in office, since there are already responsibilities in time ahead. At least at the head of the electoral authority, Mr Mag. Stein, however, can't be said that he has no responsibility there, at least there must be consequences when it comes to human responsibility, but that is not the case to this day! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is so typical of Austrian mentality: Everything remains, as it is, we may still appoint additional officials instead of having consequences for those who are responsible for this lubrication theatre and for these embarrassments. And that's a wrong way. In general, I say again and again: The choice of letter is to be reformed, because it is obvious that in the case of vulnerability to errors, in the case of abuse, but also in the case of the existing manipulation vulnerability, it is not guaranteed that a genuinely correct and secure democratic election and counting of votes will be carried out. That is why it is important to debate it honestly. Of course, the choice of letters should continue to be maintained for Austrians from abroad and for Austrians who are abroad on the election day – not a question – and in Austria one must ensure that at last a central electoral register comes, that the electoral cards are extended and that every citizen in all nine federal states can give his vote in each election cell on the day of election, with constituencies on which, if one is prevented from voting on the election day, one can still give his vote personally, and with a mobile election commission for the sick and the need for care, so that for them a personal and secret choice is ensured, and not anyone gives the vote for them. [[Abg. Wöginger: Why not for the domestics?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would have removed the vulnerability to mistakes, abuses and manipulation, and I wonder why you don't want to. These are mechanisms to be questioned. And that's something that would be necessary. We all know that there is this possibility, if you want, but, as I said, you don't seem to want to put it off. Of course, either Mr. Kern will soon be provoking new elections, as we can learn from the newspapers, or the short will do so, or they will definitely agree on what the less likely variant is. The climate in this coalition is definitely more poisoned than ever. You can already see that, that's visible. The core doesn't bring anything else. When it comes to the current account since he's been in office: zero. Although he will be in office for even longer, the current account will remain null. Therefore, as soon as possible, he will start new elections as possible in order to somehow overplay them. And at the ÖVP, the last cartridge, Mr Kurz, is kept in peat, which of course one does not want to heat and build at the right time. The reform of the election of letters should, however, be undertaken at least for the next National Council election, if one is serious about democracy, and in a democracy the highest good for the citizen is the reliability that his voice is ultimately counted and appreciated and that it cannot happen that anyone can vote for anyone else or fill the electoral seat and come to such developments. I believe that this is the highest principle we all have to take care of, and I say that this is our responsibility and should be ensured in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if the ÖVP makes the proposal for an e-voting [[Abg. Neubauer: This didn't even work at the ÖH election!]] With all due regard, e-voting is also also vulnerable to errors, abuses and manipulations, so this is entirely beyond the essential principle of allowing a democratic election to be carried out correctly and securely. The e-voting also poses many dangers under data protection law, which have been rightly shown. In the future, one must fear in a system as we have it, that perhaps there may be a computer failure throughout Austria. So such ideas should be treated very, very carefully. This Blamage, which we have now experienced, could have saved the country of Austria if one had acted prudently. This is actually a priority, and we should try to do so in the future, and I would also like to see mechanisms ensure that, in the event of an error on the part of a printing company, it is really certain that this mistake will be eliminated, that correct postcards will be printed and that a timely choice will be ensured, because everything else would only show that, if they fail in such problems, this government will no longer be able to accept problems in other areas at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e7981	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8002	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Strache, we cannot say this by ourselves that democracy is the greatest good. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: What?]] [[Call the FPÖ: You mean the election cell!]] Because democracy is the highest good, Mr. Strache, because democracy is so important to us that every voice counts, please do not turn away, but vote in favour of this election to the 4th. Move on December! [[Abg. Go, go!]] That's where you're at the right point. Let each voice count, and if every voice should count, then you must be for a shift! You turned around three times, Mr. Strache. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Call at the FPÖ: It won't even get red!]] On the other hand, I would have expected you to have a total conspiracy theory: American East Coast Freemasons are on their way to Austria, collect all the raised constituencies, they are taken out on the Elector night Hofer-Voicell and then the Kuverts are filled with Van-der-Bellen-Voices. [[Abg. Strache: What's in there with you? Did you swallow anything?]] – This would probably be a conspiracy theory that would have been taken from the FPÖ. Don't you, Mr. Kickl? It would be a conspiracy theory of yours that everything is directed against you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Are you coming from ÖVP Leopoldstadt? 5 percent!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Did you make election advertising in Leopoldstadt?]] Let's leave the church in the village! My son is a football researcher. [[Abg. Strache: When he comes after you, he can't be very successful!]] [[Call at the FPÖ: There he must have good genes from the mother!]] When the coach buys football shoes, and the football shoes then start playing during the game: Well, what's going to happen? – One will move the game because the shoes did not fit. And what does that mean in this case? – Mr Colleague! [[Abg. It's such a fool! ... Football match!]] [[Abg. Kickl: A particularly successful example!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] If you award an order over the Internet, order a printing company and have an election envelope come, and then the electoral envelopes do not vote Who, Mr. Strache, is to blame if the contractor fails to fulfil his mandate? [[Abg. Kickl: Please talk more often!]] [[Abg. Singer: Lack of oxygen!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Abg. Listen, you're totally unsuspecting!]] – Stay at your points, it’s just like this: If you order something and the one who has it to deliver it to you does not deliver properly, then you, the client, the debtor. So construct You don't always owe people where there's no culprits! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Blow: No control and supervision requirements!]] The Republic has done exactly what it must do in that case: She goes to the contractor and says: Guarantee case, you're gonna give me new envelopes! [[Abg. Strache: What about the football field now?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This is the only right thing, the only thing you can do is do what the client has to do, and that is good and right for democracy, because in the future every voice counts again, Mr. Strache. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear spectators, it would have been surprising if it were not so much in this case, that it would all be good to secure democracy and let all Austrians have the opportunity to vote, but that there are two no-sagers here: the FPÖ and the Stronach team. [[Ah-run at the Stronach team.]] It's always the same. You've never said anything to anything, you've never said in what direction you want it to, you've just always said no, even if it's in the sense of democracy. Mr Strache, you should finally think about what the failure for the country would be! [[Abg. Kickl: So in democracy, everyone has to be of one opinion, that's the ÖVP model, right?]] What we have also done in this case, also in line with the Findings of the Constitutional Court: We decide today that some 46 000 young people, who have now become additional eligible for election, will be eligible for vote on 4. ==References====External links== This is important for me in terms of democracy, because it is about an equal number of electorate who has a right to vote. From my point of view, this is also in the sense of the Constitutional Court, and I would like to take the point of view of the colleague of the Stronach team: I think that's what a politician has to do: to see that as many people as possible can choose. Then we are also in line with the knowledge of the Constitutional Court. One should not stick to the word of the law and say that we are now simply leaving because so many people have died, fewer people are elected. That wouldn't happen. Mr Hagen, you will certainly explain this after that. As regards the right to vote as such: Yeah, that's where we have to sit. The club members have already discussed this with each other, that we look closely at all the proposals made by the electoral authorities in our own working group and that after that we will also implement what is practical. A right of election must be fair to practice, must be a support to the members and must ensure that there is no manipulation. Therefore: Yes, very important – electoral reform! One point is that we also need to be able to get re-electorate, and it is precisely the Freedom Party – I am grateful to colleagues Stefan for addressing this quite honestly – and the Green Party, which does not set enough election seats. [[Abg. Lausch: But that's your electoral law, that's your fault!]] I support Mr Mödlhammer's proposal that there should be something to think about, how to get enough constituencies, because the electoral authorities must be properly composed, and we need all parties to do so. It cannot be said that the government parties are always the only ones to appoint the members of the election, but it is important that the opposition parties should also be appointed according to election representatives, constituencies and trustees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: So in Leopoldstadt there were no ÖVP voters!]] There are still many proposals to be discussed in this context, such as an early electoral day or e-voting. I would like to mention one more point: I'm just from an election observation in Jordan. If, of course, it is there that anyone who has chosen is electronically registered in each election voter, then we will probably be able to discuss an electronic registration with us. This is not an e-voting, but the use of electronic means directly in the electorate, and thus perhaps the reduction in the frequency of errors in election seats or in election commissions, we should really be serious, and we should not pretend that the electronics are only bad. [[Abg. Lausch: You've never been to an election commission before!]] We should take a bold step forward in this direction, towards more direct democracy, towards more and new technical means, to ensure that we can continue to carry out a federal presidential election 100% secure and fair in the future, so that no vote will be lost in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8344	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8366	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It was not a good speech, Mr Gerstl, but it is amusing, at least, that I would like to stress now. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Yes, and the arguments were not good either, Mr Cot; I would like to take a look at them: Mr Strache referred to a central register of voters. This is also an important point from our point of view to give voters more security and more opportunities. For the selection of letters: I have to say honestly that this is manipulative, and the Constitutional Court has also found that only in exceptional cases there should be a choice of letter. I think that's a clear signal. Otherwise, we would like to listen to what the Constitutional Court decides, so we will do so even where perhaps it does not fit the big parties or certain different coloured parties! – That would be a good idea! Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court has also said some other important things, and I would like to briefly address the position of the Stronach team. I mentioned it clearly in the Constitutional Committee last week: We have great abdominal pain in what is now to be decided here – that is why we will not agree – and this has the following reason: We have to start from the beginning. We had a Federal presidential election in which six candidates took part. Two made it to the election. Then this election took place. There have been inconsistencies in this election, or there has once been the possibility that election manipulation could even have occurred, and the Constitutional Court has reversed this election. What happened then? – A new election was announced, election date 2. ==References== Then we have had the situation, which for the Federal Ministry of the Interior does not represent a fame sheet, namely these open constituencies, these constituencies that have gone up, bad glue. It can now be to blame who wants to, to some debtor there is certain, anyone will have to stand for it, even for the costs that have been incurred by it. The Federal Minister then first said that there is no problem, the election can be carried out, these are just a few faulty envelopes. Then there was a round and round, and suddenly he was blazed, and it was the word “waiving ” in the room. And see: Now we are there, discussing, and today is likely to be decided by a majority – I will not decide – that the election date of the 4th. It's December. - So far, so good. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now we're doing it for months. People outside will think something, and you will hear it when you discuss with the people what they think of politics and such situations. [[Abg. Wheeler: Stronach!]] – Well, the ÖVP is leading the way, Mr. colleague, we have to say that quite clearly. Then there's something that I'm not quite comfortable with, I have to say quite clearly: Now you go here and say, okay, in this period so many people have died. But there was an election day earlier, and those who passed away between this and the election day did not have the ability to vote either. This is force majeure. And I think the Constitutional Court has not said that we should exchange the register of voters, but it has clearly said that the election has to take place again under the same conditions and conditions. Now it is not possible for all those who have died to be included in the electoral register again, but they are inside anyway, because we have the conditions of the first election, and among these is to carry out the now upcoming election. [[Abg. Wheelers: They're in there anyway!]] And he who did not live at the first election has not been able to vote there either. And he who has not lived in the election has not been able to vote there either. And now we go here, ladies and gentlemen, and say: Okay, now we have so many voters less, that might have a negative impact on the election result for one or another. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not a good speech, it's more a confusion! A hat game!]] And we now also have so many people who have become 16 in the meantime, so now we go here and add them to the register of voters. What is the result, ladies and gentlemen? – These 16-year-olds could not vote at the first election and were not allowed to vote. They could have influenced the result at the time. Maybe then Mrs. Griss would have been in the pickup? That is quite possible. You have to see that, too, and I have great concerns. Not only I, but also the Constitutional Judge Öhlinger, has mentioned this, and even Mr Voggenhuber of the Greens has said so. Ms. Griss also confirmed this on her Facebook account. And I spoke to Mr. Lugner, the builder of Lugner, yesterday, and asked him how he saw it. He sees it the same way. [[Oh, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Schieder: Professor Richard Lugner!]] So, and now we are at the point, ladies and gentlemen: Now we're going into a running election here – it's nothing else, it's not a new election – and we're changing the voters' register! Ladies and gentlemen, this is extremely worrying and with nothing to justify. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I can't imagine someone who is really informed about these circumstances – and we've had enough discussion, both in committee and here – with good conscience, except Mr Rädler of the ÖVP, who seems to have been squatting it, replacing the voters' register. What do we do in the next election, where the result may not match? Then let's go, find some bones we can take out, and then say, Okay, we'll just hesitate to do this a little bit, and then we'll change the voters' register, and then we'll see that the result will actually be right. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not only extremely worrying, but it is negligent and extremely dangerous! And that's why the Stronach team will not agree to these amendments.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8467	I call Mr Klubobmann. Arbitrator. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8488	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors who have also followed the mission and who have most likely been concerned about the processes surrounding the Federal Presidential election over the last few weeks and months, or who have also felt despair, and who have reacted with incomprehensibness! I can also direct you: I understand, I can understand. And I also fear that what has happened has certainly also caused damage to confidence in democracy. However, the political debate must also distinguish between the issue of debt and responsibility, for: The blame – why the glue is such, why the company has ordered it and so on – is a question that will certainly be criminalized and will be resolved in the courts at some point. The political responsibility, which is also to be said quite openly, is, of course, with the government and with the competent minister. And the responsibility of us here as Parliament is also to deal with this problem in such a way that, at the end of the day, a solution can be found. We have nothing of it if we all describe the problem as my previous speaker did, but we have to think about it at the end of the day: How can we create the best possible solution for democracy? And this is because today we decide first, the election date at 4. In December, we decide, second, that in the case of the postcards, another system should be used, that, for democratic reasons, we also decide that today's 16-year-olds or those who until election day 4. On December 16, 16 years of age should be able to vote because otherwise it would be incomprehensible to democracy. And we also decide that Freistadt can vote at the same time as the Federal President's election and that the harmful electoral cards for the election date 2. It is possible to collect and, where appropriate, destroy after the investigations. Furthermore, we will decide on an amendment that the vote, the electorate can be cast in both by the electorate and the electorate, so that there is no uncertainty, but that both are possible; for, in the view of some, the clear process of the one who does this is the electorate, but many voters also find, they want to vote as “their vote”, and they should be able to do so in the future. Other major questions remain to be answered, namely: In the future, how will we deal with the findings of the Constitutional Court as regards counting time points, publication time points and other election settlement issues? And in my opinion, we have to answer these questions at the end of January, at the beginning of February – at some point in this time – here in the House too. An answer, namely to create a central Austrian register of voters, will be given on 17 November. In October of this year, the Constitutional Committee has already dealt with this issue, and with it it has already been decided or made in November, so that it is decided to do so. However, I would like to say one thing quite clearly, because the damage to democracy is not only caused by the embarrassment with the broken Kuverts and with the challenges before the Constitutional Court, the question of how democracy is considered also depends on how we – each one of us or every party – deal with questions as well. [[Abg. Kickl: What? This creates a damage to democracy?]] And that's what it's all about: How is criminalised? How is it spoken here? And I say, after listening to my colleague Strache here, one thing: To be honest, a case like that in Sonntagberg, where the FPÖ Congregation has falsified statements of support and has been condemned for it, is not in the sense of the democratic inventor, but quite the contrary. And there are several such examples, and I would therefore ask that we all take one step back and not take one step, namely, persistent suspicions and conspiracy theories, and what is being washed here, to continue into space. [[Abg. Conspirators!]] [[Abg. Strache: A conspiracy is not that... the choice was repeated, in Hohenems...!]] It is even more important – and this is my desire to ask both candidates, and I hope they both not only want to hear it, but that they, the candidates and their election teams, will ultimately also be able to implement it – a clean election campaign until 4. December without suspects, Internet rumors, conspiracy theories – conspiracy theories on diseases, on election counterfeits and all these things. This has been achieved by Austria and this has not deserved the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. And by the way: I also hope that none of the two candidates will have to do something like this. That would be the best deal for democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8555	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stefan. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8576	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now that I have heard the speeches of the government group, I wonder very well about some things. First of all: Mr Schieder says that it is a damage to democracy when an election is challenged. - That's really hair-throwing. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But I didn't say that!]] That's exactly what you said, literally! [[Abg. Arbitrators: You got it wrong!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] All right, then you promised. Then I take note of that. Nice to meet you. [[New calls from Members of Parliament for arbitration and feces.]] - No, I listened very carefully. You have said that the challenge of the election is a damage to democracy. [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the Abg. Arbitrators) Read the speech through! You said that's a damage, election challenge is a damage!]] Good, so if you take that back – or feel wrong – it's right for me. This is not a damage to democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we'll take a look at the record. I'll put the slide on you, but you can stay where you are. Mr Gerstl, too, has gone up and said very strange things here. I mean, whenever someone says "never", he's been on the wrong steamer before. To say that the FPÖ never agrees, that is really hair-sharing. We will vote in part here even today. We will, for example, agree with this epochal change that, from now on, no longer the electorate will be allowed to cast the envelope into the urn, but also the elector himself. So we will agree to this really great reform. - First of all. Secondly, we will also agree to the change in the deadline for electoral evidence, although we also see the problem that it is no longer a proper re-election. But there are the two conflicting problems: on the one hand, the young people, who have been 16 years old in the meantime and therefore of course rightly have the need to decide there, and on the other hand, the fact that there should be the same constituency in a re-election and also in a turn. But both have something for themselves, and that is why we believe that we want to give young people the opportunity to participate in this election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So we've been talking a lot about the election being postponed. There is no doubt that this is a blamage. You can also discuss debt and responsibility for a long time. I am actually convinced that if you give such a mission and if, as was the case there, you add an extra date for the election re-election, namely the 2nd. October, chosen – there would have been a previous one – to eliminate the danger of possible difficulties this time, in order not to have the embarrassment that something is happening again, then it is quite clear that one is also taking control in the most sensitive area of choice, namely in the selection of letters – since we already knew that the choice of letter was the problem. And that this has not been done, it is certainly presumptuous, and this accusation will not be avoided either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So what's to do now? – The Constitutional Court’s decision was obviously a wake-up call to find out that there are, first of all, a number of problems in practice – perhaps there has also been a Schlendrian – but there is, above all, the need to change the law. We have very concrete proposals in this regard, and we have always said clearly from the very beginning that the choice of letters is a democratically-political husary, a problem. And I say it again, even if I repeat: It is strange that there are two classes of choice: One choice is the one in the constituency and the other is the choice of letters. Remember what's in the constituency: You have to go to the electorate, you must not vote openly. And everyone who's going to vote in the constituency is also a powerful citizen. It is always said in the letter election: I'm a powerful citizen, I know what I'm doing! – Why does he who goes to the constituency not know what he is doing? The voters in the polling room are protected, among other things, from being able to drive him to vote openly, or it is prevented from influencing others by being open to vote. No one is allowed to enter the electorate with the electorate, there must not be more people inside. Of course, no one can look over their shoulder. All of this is carefully monitored and guaranteed. The constituency stands in the middle of the constituency all day long. The constituency is not carried out for an hour, while some constituency leader is now preparing something. That would be totally unthinkable, because everyone would jump on the barricades and say: We have always celebrated Possible vote manipulation! - All of this is in the constituency. That's the one side. And the other side is the choice of letters. That's not true. We don't know. Who really did the cross now? Who's next? Has there been an influence? Has there been pressure? We do not know whether the constituency has perhaps not arrived because of the post and therefore the vote has not been counted. We do not know whether the electoral envelopes were opened, whether they were exchanged and the like. That's not exactly what we know: What are the constituencies, once they've been sent? Are they really safe? Is there a clear system in this regard? Who's got access? - We don't know all these things during the letter election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you keep this in mind, it is therefore quite clear and for us of course: Well, if you already want to maintain this choice of letters for a variety of reasons – because it is absolutely necessary for the Austrians abroad – you have to say at least once clearly that you reduce them to the absolute minimum. The right access is of course: Only for Austrians from abroad and Austrians who stay abroad! Everyone else can go to a constituency. The moment I have a electoral card and go to a vote place, all the principles of the right to vote are fulfilled and the problems of the letter election – perhaps up to a possible problem in the delivery of the electoral card – are solved! That is why this is a logical step, and that is quite reasonable, also in the sense of the safety of an electoral process. We don't want to take anyone the chance to choose. On the contrary, everyone should have the opportunity. The choice of letters often takes it! Remember that some 40,000 votes were not counted at the last election because there was no signature on the envelope. These 40,000 people have all believed that they have chosen, and their voice has not arrived. We want the voice of these people to count and arrive very well, and therefore these proposals for reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must therefore be ensured that no abuse occurs when ordering the postcard. And if you can order electronically right now, and then you get a registered letter, then you have to consider: Electronic order can be anyone, we know that. It is also not said that the voter must be ordered – identification data is very easy to obtain in a variety of ways, or you have it from someone else – and as for the registered letter, we also know that it is not personally delivered, but someone who is signed. In addition, I can have the postcard posted elsewhere, at an office address or elsewhere. So all these are circumstances that are susceptible to abuse. And it must be ensured that the voice cannot be abused! The same applies to those people who actually do not have the insight about what the election is all about. They must be protected against abuse of their right to vote. It's a protection, and nothing else! If someone orders a vote for such a person and then gives up the vote, then this is an abuse that we have to put off! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You don't need to turn this around in a polemic way now, and to say, the liberals want to take anything away from anyone. On the contrary! It is necessary to distinguish clearly between those who need help for physical or other reasons – this must, of course, be guaranteed – and those who do not have this insight. And that can be very different! For example, there is always a psychiatric opinion when ordering a guard. Among other things, this psychiatric opinion shows whether a person is mentally able to make a will. That is to say, it is clearly qualified because it is a very wide field of questions when a guard is ordered. The same could be said about whether someone needs to be protected from an election abuse. – So that’s quite easy to solve, and we’d have less of a way of manipulation. So there are many points to be clarified here. In this context also a word for e-voting, which is often presented as a new remedy: First of all, we know of many cases where e-voting has not worked. If you look around internationally – you just need to look at it on the Internet – there are many bad examples. We know about the ÖH election. And if you talk to the people who organize and carry out these things, they tell you what huge manipulation possibilities and inaccuracies exist. Once it starts with the need to protect the hardware. So the computer itself has to be checked once. Then it must be protected so that the computer itself cannot be manipulated. We don't know what kind of programs are going on in the background. I can never see if a choice has passed properly – and I am convinced that none of the people here can really understand it. This can only be done by absolute experts in hundreds of man-hours' examinations, because they will have to examine all the programmes behind them. It's not like you're saying, Yeah, it's all right, you put in front of A and back there's A coming out. It is not understandable what voice you have entered and which has arrived. So I'm asking for great caution! Please don't just come here 'cause it sounds so good, say, e-voting solves anything. We have to be very careful about these things, because once there is distrust that you say, I don't know what happened there, I can't understand it, and now some expert tells me this or that – and we know what different statements from experts there are in all areas – then the right to vote is severely damaged. So: I'm asking for caution! Central electorate – yes! We are there too, unlike what Mr Gerstl believes, for it to be introduced. All right! But there is also very important: It must be done right. A central electorate must be made right. It must be quite clear that data linked to it will be deleted again, and it must be quite clear what data is inside it. In principle, it is in the draft law, but the technical implementation is very crucial, because if there is a link between the data that comes to it – I say: which Federal Presidency candidates have I supported, which popular desires have I supported, was I not in the election? – if this is understandable, then we have a family database. And she can't be there! That is why we are going to get involved in the discussion, because it is crucial that elections are carried out properly and that the voices of each Austrian are counted properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8704	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek has now come to speak. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8725	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. At the end of this discussion, a broad majority of the Constitution will adopt this special law, including several constitutional provisions. All those who do not participate in this yes obviously have a different idea, which would have wanted the election to take place on 2 October. It is carried out on October and the risk that thousands, perhaps even hundreds of thousands of voters, will not be able to exercise their right to vote. This is not responsible and also a very strange view of democracy in the choice of the only institution to be directly elected at the federal level, the election for the highest office in the state in which so many people can participate. That's unfortunate. I believe that this is a very central right, namely the right to participate in political elections. And exactly this task we follow today with this constitutional change of special law. It is therefore very annoying that the Stronach and FPÖ teams reject this in Bausch and Bogen de facto. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's not enough. [[Abg. - Did you listen?]] – I listened very well. [[Abg. Strache: Or didn't you understand?- Oh, my God!]] I listened very well. It's quite clear: If you do not agree to the postponement, you agree that these thousands of voters, who have received a completely innocent election envelope, will simply be deprived of their right to vote. That was also your candidate's first reaction to the Federal presidential elections, Norbert Hofer, who meant that they simply shouldn't vote. – This is already more than a questionable concept of democracy. [[Abg. Bitch: Well, that's a fool!]] - That's all proven. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It does not matter to us that a relevant number of voters are excluded. That is why, in this situation, we have a technical panacea – that is annoying, it is annoying, and I believe that there are a lot of people who are annoyed by it – yet this is still necessary. I am glad that as four parties we have also managed to prepare this bill properly and vote today. But that's not enough. As a FPÖ, you have now broken a discussion of the fence in the course of this necessary shift, in which you take up certain groups and want to exclude them gradually from the right to vote. You started with the people in the nursing homes, you started with the people who are being guarded. They generally want to do away with the choice of letters. That is to say, this concerns sick, in need of care, disabled people, people who may be employed, who may work in a tourism business. Let me give you an example: If someone works at the Munich Oktoberfest as a tourist season worker, he may be able to choose because he is abroad, but is someone as a seasonal worker in Kitzbühel and has on Sunday service, he can no longer, according to your imagination, choose any more. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] All these are restrictions, that just separates us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The FPÖ wants as much as possible... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] - Why are you so upset? They want to limit the choice of letters to Austrians abroad. In this way, you exclude all in the country exactly in such situations from the choice of letters. And that is certainly absolutely unfair and extremely worrying in terms of democracy policy. The first election repetition has already taken place in the Leopoldstadt. I can only hope that the citizens who have been annoyed and annoyed by this panic are still still on 4. ==References====External links== This is a very important right, for which many people in Austria have historically fought. In all the troubles and irritations, it is important to bring democracy to life and to go as well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you feel wronged, I would like to quote that again. The European Vilimsky spoke in a very disparaging way of talking about people in charge. He said: “A good thing in the extreme case does not know what they are called and do not know that democratic elections are taking place.” – This is really very, very devaluing. They know as well as we do that participation in the political life is a fundamental right for people with disabilities, must not be restricted and is a very important opportunity not to discriminate against them. To say something like this in Bausch and Arch, namely, they don't know what they're called is really beyond. I would have expected you to apologize to all these people today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also find the writing of the FPÖ-Anwalts Böhmdorfer to election cards in nursing homes very strange. The caring people there are doing a very hard job – I would like to expressly thank you at this point for their work. Just to frighten these people with threats of punishment and also to point out that you should hang up this note with the threatened punishments in your home, what is the other thing than the attempt to intimidate the staff working there? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are also the repeated claims that the word manipulation is repeatedly taken into the mouth, that what is taking place here is repeatedly put into a shaky light. And again: the correct representation of the Constitutional Court. At last take note of this and do not harm democracy by constantly talking about manipulation. There has been no reference to manipulation in the largest, so to speak, procedure the Constitutional Court has ever made on these issues. I would ask you to finally present this to the public and not to see democracy with your austere conspiracy theories from the magic ink to the magic glue – I do not know what is going to happen to you. That's really harmful. Take note that Alexander Van der Bellen actually had more votes in this election – that is a fact – and do not try to give the impression that someone has misallocated a single voice here – or present evidence! You haven't done that to this day. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] ..
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8843	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stefan. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e8864	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I was really amazed at the fact that Mrs Glavischnig did not seem to have listened to me and apparently was really trying to twist very Polish things. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a fact!]] Let us start with what we have said quite specifically: We want everyone to be able to give up their voice. The people who work on this day, who are on duty or who are on vacation should also be able to give up their voices. [[Abg. Brosz: How do they do that?]] However, we have also clearly stated that there are possibilities for this: First, there are electoral cards, I can go to another constituency. [[Abg. Brosz: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: When I'm in the kitchen, I can't go to the constituency room when I'm a nurse, I'm in surgery!]] Secondly, you can make pre-election days – this is already in discussion. Thirdly, you can make service exemptions. We can do all of this, and we want to bring it into the discussion, and we have said that here too. So now to say that we wanted to take away someone's voice is the purest polemic. This has nothing to do with what was discussed here. The flying constituencies have always existed for those who are bedridden or who cannot get to the constituency because of a disability. These should definitely be able to choose, unimpeded and free, and not that one might give up the voice for them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the contrary, we want to protect them, and there are the flying electoral commissions and they should continue to exist – if necessary, more. That means that there is the possibility for everyone to go to choice. And we said that clearly every time. “Astonishment” is the wrong word, but I was now surprised that you are trying so polemically to twist it completely. You're saying we're going to take the president's right to vote. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Mr Vilimsky said that!]] – He never said that! He said quite clearly that there are people who need to be protected. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: He said that!]] – No, he didn’t say that! He said there are people who need to be protected. At There are great differences between the members of the council. There are those who only waste money or else need support in certain areas of life, who can of course take part in a choice. That's perfectly clear. But there are also those who are not actually able to see that, and they must be protected. I also said this today – if you have listened to me, you know –: There is a clear concept by making this decision by means of a psychiatric opinion. And that's not any discrimination. On the contrary. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Insanity!]] - No, that's not crazy at all. On the contrary, it's a protection. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a protection when I know that the person is not able. I'm a guard myself, too. I know there are huge differences. There are also officers who are comapathists, who lie there staring at the ceiling. It must be clear that no letter vote can be obtained for these persons. That must be quite clear. That must not be possible. Are you, otherwise, in the opinion that they do not have to be protected from misuse of their right to vote? That's exactly what I think. It's obviously a concern to you. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Who's doing that?]] Funnyly, the Greens have rightly criticized this. In the 2010 election, Margulies, who was a member of the country, said that a vote card was ordered for his grandmother, although she never wanted to, because she was unable to do so. Shouldn't they be protected? [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: seven years ago!]] – In these seven years, nothing has changed in the law, which is still the same problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then to say that the Member and Presidential candidate Hofer would have wanted to take away someone's vote! On the contrary, he just said that the election must be carried out properly. Since these postcards that were on the go were apparently harmful – that was in the early phase – he suggested invalidating them in Bausch and Arche – otherwise she sends someone away, then she goes up and is no longer valid – and this time the choice is carried out without a choice of letter. Of course, everyone in the polling room can still choose. – That was just a proposal for the solution, but he didn’t want to take the vote away from anyone. This is a complete distortion of what has been said. I'm really amazed you're trying to wipe it out so polemic. We have very clear requirements, which in fact often meet with what I have been discussing with the Greens for a long time. I met with the former Constitutional Spokesman, and we discussed together that the choice of letters is a problem and how to improve it. And that you suddenly pretend to be anything else is obviously only to be associated with the election campaign, otherwise I can't imagine that you're twisting the truth like this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9029	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Dr. Strolz. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9050	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! We are discussing a law here to be passed in order to be able to postpone the re-election of the Federal President's election in December. Of us NEOS there is an agreement here. We think of what has happened, of course, as a real expression for the citizens. I think we are all upset and, as legislator, we are required to solve this pragmatically now. That it is to be moved, dear FPÖ, is completely out of question for me, and I would have liked you to have a clearer confession. Why to move is clearly demonstrated by the view into the Leopoldstadt: In the Leopoldstadt, 7 400 electoral cards were issued for about 70,000 voters. Of these, 3 100 were broken, almost half of the electoral cards. In turn, 800 people who have been informed of this as well as all the others from the city of Vienna – a shift has not agreed to the SPÖ, we think this is a mistake – have not reported that the electoral cards are broken and they get a new one. Now we take these numbers and transfer them to a federal election, the Federal President's election: Then we would have about 600,000 electoral cards, probably even more in a nationwide election. If we have the same error rate – and if it is expected to be the same printer – then we speak of adventurous 300 000 or more broken electoral cards. If anyone in this House says that we must not move and we could have solved this differently, then I do not think this is responsible. You can't say that's a small thing, let's put an eye on it, 300,000 people have broken electoral cards, isn't that bad, let's go on. - No, that's bad! It is about the fundamental right in a democracy to vote. Therefore, the shift is the only possible answer here to keep the whole thing waterproof in the sense of the citizens. I also think it makes sense for us to make some other corrections, for example, that we should be allowed to cast the electoral paper ourselves in the future. We just had to make corrections, as it was done in practice anyway. Overall, I am important – Mr Minister, here I am speaking to you, but also to all the other groups here in the house – to all six club members and also to you, Mr Minister, have agreed that we are starting a six-party political reform group in January. This commitment must be observed. Mr Minister, you also promised that you would go to the preliminary stage and start a preparatory group with the six political groups from the end of September. We NEOS will be very careful to ensure that these promises are respected, as we must not allow these maladministrations to happen again. In the event that an advanced election comes, National Council elections et cetera, these things must be waterproof at federal level by next year in spring, for elections of all kinds. If we don't do that, we don't meet our responsibilities enough. That is why we, like the arresters, will be careful to ensure that this is done in the interests of citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9096	Next speaker is Mrs Steger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9120	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on the accusation of Mr Gerstl – whom Mr Schieder, too, has rightly given – of conspiracy theories. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Interesting that you feel addressed!]] Apart from the fact that you have presented this in a very strange way, you can already call it very absurd, for the simple reason: You might call it conspiracy theories, we call it a question. You think the population is very grateful for the fact that there is still a party here in this House that is actually questioning what the government is doing. It is very grateful for this because mainstream journalism has long since ceased to do so, and the two opposition parties, both the Greens and the NEOS, prefer to oppose the opposition rather than the government – perhaps also with the background that they might want to join the government in the near future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My colleague, Harald Stefan, has already said a lot about Mrs Glawischnig's speech. In short: I have never heard so many untruths in one speech! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That was an exact quote!]] A lot has already been said about it. To say this is something that has not yet been said: The argument that all those who do not agree with this law now want the votes to not really be counted can also be turned around and say that everyone who opposes a letter-election reform wants this vote not to be counted correctly. For it was precisely the Greens – and that has already been said by my colleague – who said earlier before they were now affected that this choice of letters allows any manipulation. Let's go back to the law that's being passed today. The government has now officially proved that it is not in a position to ensure a correct choice in time for the time being, and now wants to adopt a law that is historically seeking in a very negative sense. But we have experienced a lot of historical things in the last few weeks and months. First, due to the innumerable illegalities associated with the choice of letters, but also with the inability of authorities, the choice is rightfully abolished by the Constitutional Court. And I really find it objectionable that there are politicians and political parties who criticize the Constitutional Court of Justice for this decision. This may be the case with my colleague. Arbitrators have taken back today, but there is enough here in the house that has done so very well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's what the FPÖ does otherwise!]] To be honest, in my opinion, this is even a dangerous game. For weeks, the media and also the political parties have called this a misjudgment and have treated lawbreaks as sluggishing, which is a massive damage to confidence in our rule of law. However, the rule of law is one of the cornerstones of our democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The whole thing, although the Constitutional Court has so and no other jurisdictions for over 90 years, is right: first of all, the Constitutional Court does not have the legal order and not the possibilities to actually prove manipulation in a thousand different cases. This would take months or even years, and it is precisely because of that that there is the public prosecutor's office, the criminal courts, and there will also be an examination and there will certainly be advertisements in the future. Secondly, the principles of electoral law – generally, equally, freely, directly, personally and secretly – are central requirements of democracy and thus also an important part of a constitutional principle. In view of this importance, the Constitutional Court has always decided, in all its findings, that the possibility of manipulation must be sufficient. Those who claim the opposite today are either unsuspecting or will play with the fire. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unproposingly: There we would be at the next part of the infinite election story, the so-called glue or Uhugate. This has not only caused headaches in Austria, but has also blamed us quite internationally. By the way, a problem, as our clubman H. C. Strache has already done, which has already occurred at the 2013 National Council elections and also at the 2015 ÖH election. And, of course, there is the question of why the Ministry of the Interior did not respond to it back then. Why was the slightest suspicion that something was not right not carried out comprehensive tests and investigations? And how did your authority react instead? – She called for further violations of the law and recommended that those affected rather take a Uhu and ban the Kuverts from sticking together. That was another highlight of embarrassment that happened. Today, the election is finally postponed. The real reasons were put forward, but I would like to point out in this context that the original election was scheduled for the end of September and the Federal Ministry then postponed the date at the beginning of October, with the request for a safety pad, if such unforeseen problems should arise. And yet the election is being postponed today. I'm just saying, ladies and gentlemen, that's dilettantism in pure culture. What are the consequences? – There are no human consequences and there are no consequences. The choice of letters, for example, is a faulty, manipulation and abuse-sensitive system. That was her from the very beginning, and that's why she's reformed. We, and what Mrs Glawischnig has said, absolutely corresponds to the untruth, we must say – we do not want to abolish the choice of letters in any way. We want to ensure the best possible protection of the secret, free and personal right of vote, we do not want to abolish as you have claimed or as medially reported. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In our opinion, the choice of letters should remain the exception for those people who live abroad or who are abroad on the election day. [[Abg. Walser: Salzburg!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] There should, of course, be mobile constituencies for those in need of care and the sick. On the election day, there is also the possibility that you can choose with your election card in every single explosive in Austria, anywhere. [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] And there should also be pre-election days. My colleague has already done all of this – you just don't say the truth here in a row. However, instead of adopting real reforms, today's law sets out a new chapter of historical legislation. This law creates a choice of sui generis – a legal procedure that I believe is highly questionable. In order to ensure security, of course, the whole is also raised in the constitutional order so that the Constitutional Court does not have the opportunity to lift or amend it by means of the legislative review procedure. And as always, the Greens and NEOS are playing the sidewalkers for the government – just like in the ORF general election, as we have seen recently. In summary, from our point of view, a election in October would definitely have been feasible. And today's law makes it miss that reform of the election of letters that would have been urgently necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we will not agree to this either. However, we will give our approval to the extension of electorate, so that 16-year-olds can also vote. Let me tell you again: It is high time that this government drew both content and personnel consequences. Best of all, she'll start with herself and step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9256	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9284	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the address of the colleague Steger and the FPÖ: If you've given up the speech so much, you have the impression that you and the FPÖ have a problem with the choice of letters. I do not know, however, whether this may also have a connection with the fact that the number of votes of the FPÖ among the post voters is obviously a little lower than that of the other voters – but that does not have to be so. [[Abg. Stefan: We voted against the introduction!]] I should like to make the following request at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I believe that this is a change in the sense of living practice so that voters can act in the same way that you want. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Revolutionary!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Hat off!]] ==References====External links== After all, December 2016 is necessary due to a technical error – no more and no less. It's interesting what's been told today. Based on what is unfortunately the problem for the constituencies due to this technical error, one has to say very soberly: Without a shift, this would have been the first reason for a turnout. It is likely that one would have rightly challenged this and reversed the choice. What I am allowed to say – I do not know how the Members of this House are doing – is that in recent weeks I have been very often addressed whether it might not have been possible to list the envelopes in these districts again, and if there are indeed changes and manipulations to repeat the election. In the end, however, the Constitutional Court has resorted to formal errors. This is to be noted, but it is already to be noted: The problem was not the choice of letters as such. May, but it was formal error, and it's what the 2nd. It is a technical problem on October. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] I think it is right that the Federal Ministry of the Interior has been guided by a great deal – including written information – of the conduct of the elections, that there are also training courses for the district election authorities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] And I think it would be useful not always to draw up conspiracy theories. The law presented is certainly useful and necessary. I am personally very glad that in the district city of Freistadt the mayor's election on 4 April. ==References== Unfortunately, this is necessary because Mayor Christian Jachs died suddenly in summer. I would also like to say at this point that elections cost money. Of course, democracy must be worth something to us. However, the communities are not responsible for this, so my request that these election costs be reimbursed to the municipalities accordingly. It is estimated that this shift will cost about €5 million in Upper Austria alone. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest – I have been mentioned very often in recent weeks –: Do we really need the function of the Federal President or the Federal President? – The location in politics often determines the position. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Personally, I believe that we need the function of the Federal President very well. The Federal President does much more in the background than is perceived in the public. It's not just about representation, state visits and so on. It makes sense to discuss, together with the electoral reform over the next few months, whether all the possibilities, tasks et cetera of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, which were defined in 1920 and 1929, are still up-to-date. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] You can think about it and discuss it together. In connection with the previous speeches on this item on the agenda, I would like to make one more comment: I think that starting with Mr Hagen, we should think a little bit about whether it really makes sense and what it is that we are publicly valued by colleagues in this House. If you're sitting in the glass house, maybe you shouldn't throw stones. Finally, the words we choose also contribute to the image of ourselves and thus of politics. [[Abg. New builder: This also applies to you!]] I think we should be really careful in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9437	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9516	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9538	Mr President. High house! Mrs Glavischnig said that it is very terrible that we do not agree to this today. But you really owe that to yourself. In principle, we have had nothing against the fact that the election will be postponed, because it seems impossible to exchange these envelopes. You can believe that or not, but if it is, then you have to move it, of course, that's not a question. The problem was that by means of a Constitutional Act, you will eliminate the knowledge of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has said that the choice must take place under the same conditions. That means the electorate has to remain the same. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] What you do is not a re-election, but a re-election. There is the question of why the other candidates are not also on the choice. And here we come into a situation where you, with a constitutional majority, cancel the Constitutional Court. This is a door that should not be opened from my point of view. [[Abg. Brosz: That's against the FPÖ party line! That's dangerous, because there's nothing going on with the mandate!]] But I come to the Constitutional Court again. I will also stick to what the Constitutional Court has said as regards the electoral cards. The Constitutional Court clearly stated: The choice of letters is permitted because it allows additional possibilities to choose – possibly for foreign-Austrians or for others – but – and now it comes – it must be the exception. But what happens now is exactly the opposite: One is trying to expand this more and more and more people into this very critical form of election from democratic policy considerations. This is really a problem, even if you know that these Kuverts were already in use at the last election. I showed it to you, you know that you can open these envelopes laterally and close them again. And now we have this situation. That's exactly what you said. They claimed that the Constitutional Court did not find any evidence of manipulations. [[Abg. Brosz: Did he say literally!]] Only: He didn't even look for it, and that's not why he said he couldn't find out. [[Abg. Brosz: Of course!]] If someone who is not responsible for withdrawing into an extra room with the envelopes in his hand and comes out after a few hours with a result on a note, how do you want to prove the manipulation? [[Intrusions of the Abg. Brosz]] If the one – we know from the ÖVP sympathizers that many have chosen white – is sitting alone without the statutory control in this Chamber, this voice that is white – many ÖVPs have said that they have chosen white – and with a pen simply do a cross somewhere, how do you want to prove it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser]] How is the Constitutional Court to get there? Or: How is he supposed to get behind these up-to-door envelopes when they are in an unblocked chamber all night long – on, out, on, on, and on – and counted the next day? [[Call the Greens.]] All these things are a problem. And if the Constitutional Court says it's not about whether it was actually manipulated – you couldn't prove it – but because it was possible, then we're at the point where you have to say: If it was possible that could have been manipulated, then this choice must be repeated. I'm sorry, but the That is also good, because in the end, the citizen must be able to rely on what he has chosen to actually reflect himself in the result. But this was not the case now – not with 1,000 votes, not with 10,000 votes, but with hundreds of thousands of votes, the Constitutional Court has said. You know the distance was only 35 000 votes, which is definitely the case... [[Abg. Brosz: At 100,000 he said?]] At hundreds of thousands it was theoretically possible that manipulated... [[Abg. Brosz: Did he say?]] [[Abg. Brosz: Did he say?]] – Of course, read it through! That is the problem, and that is why we have this re-election. But what we don't have: We do not have the choice on the conditions which the Constitutional Court has clearly defined. If you rule out the judgments of the Constitutional Court by your majority, then this is a door that I would rather not want open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9688	Mr Brosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to point out the provisions in the Rules of Procedure which are very clear. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9712	Mr Lugar has just claimed, several times, that the Constitutional Court has found that hundreds of thousands of votes – I quote literally – have come to a breach of law. I quote the judgment of the Constitutional Court affected a total of 77,926 votes. [[Keeping a document in height]] Thank you, Mr Lugar.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9756	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9777	Ladies and gentlemen! When we discuss with citizens – and we do so every day – we note that it is undisputed that the course of the Federal presidential elections has led to a loss of confidence in democracy. Let us talk about what the damage to democracy is! – The first major damage has been done by the incredibly scandalous sluttings in the electoral authorities at the first election, because this has resulted in the result that the candidate who has received the most votes, namely Alexander Van der Bellen, was put to death because election authorities slammed. – This is a scandal, which is a sloppy that is unbearable in a democracy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second damage to democracy occurs when a party that has lost the election practices the myth of manipulation because, on the one hand – possibly – it is a bad loser, but on the other hand, it wants to open up a next chapter for a re-election and, on the other hand, to derive an advantage from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[call to the FPÖ]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) On the eve of the election, President Hofer has already spoken about the strange results of the electoral cards, which he has already given the impression that there could be manipulations. And then came the conspiracy theories on the Internet – I don't want to repeat them at all – from secret inks that would become invisible to the current statements. [[Call at the FPÖ:The VfGH has confirmed all this!]] Deputies Steger – she doesn't know at all – turns to the speaker's desk and says she doesn't want to talk about what the real reasons for the postponement of this election are. So there are real reasons. This clearly implies to the Minister of the Interior that for any reason that have nothing to do with the fact of the broken envelopes, he postpones the choice because he wants to make an advantage to anyone. These are absurd conspiracy theories that only lead to one thing: that people lose confidence in democracy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] Of course, the adhesive affair is also a damage to democracy. But there would have been at least the same damage if we had made the election in October and had seen eyes in a blamage, because the execution of this election would of course have been a point of attack for a further election challenge. This would not have been understood by any citizen and no citizen at all, no more – that is what I do not understand in the FPÖ – as the claim that this choice could still be carried out properly if the Kuverts opened themselves by themselves at all places. Let us not forget whether there is the legal basis for this, but the exchange has not been possible in time for the Austrians abroad. How do we explain people who want to take part that they cannot vote because the deadlines do not allow the exchange of the electoral envelope? This is simply not explainable, and democracy is detractable. [[Abg. Mölzer:... in a week send Kuverts!]] This is the point where the FPÖ begins a double-dwelling – I take back double-dwelling and say where the FPÖ becomes contradictory –: On the one hand – that is her legitimate right – she is fighting for a choice because of mold defects, on the other hand she is making herself today and says: Quite obvious flaws are no reason to postpone a choice! – This is a dual assessment, which is so unsustainable and not comprehensible. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] My thesis I see behind it is: You just don't agree to keep you going. Your myths and conspiracy theories can spread by speaking of real reasons for a shift in elections – just as Mr Steger did. The second point concerns your proposals concerning disabled and elderly people. I quote you correctly – as also colleague Glavischnig She correctly quoted it – because I am talking about a serious debate, you want a judicial review of the right to vote with an expert. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: She didn't!]] – That was the demand that was expressed several times. This is highly problematic for many reasons. Let's start with the first point! There are people who are only temporarily impaired. If you imagine that the right to vote will be taken, then their state will change, and no one will feel responsible for verifying that state. [[Abg. Stefan: And that is true of all other things too!]] We're talking about 50,000 people in charge, not small groups. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] Another example: You're saying that can just be explained by an expert. That means: In the final consequence, an expert decides on the right to vote. [[Abg. Stefan:... Business capacity itself!]] If I look at the debates on the quality of court opinions, I fear and fear that court opinions will decide on such sensitive areas as election law. [[Abg. Stefan: He can't conclude a single contract!]] Wherever we look – this starts with occupational incapacity pensions or with the care allowance and continues to go to arrests, property agencies or damages proceedings – they are always in the foreground of court judges and their controversial opinions. [[Abg. Stefan: This is a problem of the state of affairs in itself!]] And you want to ignore this lack of quality, which is now being denied more than a few in the judicial system, and say that this delicate area of the right to vote should now be reviewed by experts who are responsible for discussions everywhere?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Stefan: Do you want to abolish the board?]] That's a way we can't go. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] There are clear rules who can and can choose. There are clear rules on how to deal with this right. It's true that we don't want the wrong people to vote for the old and the sick. But there are clear rules. [[Abg. Stefan: But the business capacity can be taken away?]] It is also prohibited by criminal law. And it has – because you always quote my colleagues Martin Margulies – been criticised by him in 2010, but it has been responded to in 2011. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] Many things have been changed due to this criticism and experience in the National Council – probably also with the approval of the FPÖ, at least with the consent of the Greens. It is simply wrong that we had not responded to the right criticism of Margulies or that they do not want to have true today, no, it has been responded at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only hope that the further election campaign will not bring any further damage to democracy, that the election will take place properly in December and that we will finally have a Federal President who also deserves this office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e9988	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10010	Mr President. Minister! Dear listeners on the gallery and in front of the TVs! High house! Apparently, with the greens the nerves are really white, because otherwise... [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Why? We just won the Leopold City! I'm fine!]] - I'm still coming to the Leopoldstadt. [[New call of the abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] - I'm trying to understand that. We're actually in a federal presidential campaign marathon, where it seems like you're just waiting for one of the candidates w.o. there – and an end is still not in sight. In order to give the whole thing a little bit of a taste, we are voting today on a legislative amendment which would not have been necessary by our conviction if only one had wanted it and which, as Mr Hagen has already mentioned, is extremely problematic to law. And now I come to the Leopoldstadt: Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely worrying if only 36.5% of voters vote in a re-election! [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Yes, you stayed at home!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] That's the disaster we're actually experiencing. For me, however, this disaster is comprehensible. In fact, the Constitutional Court did not, at the Federal Presidential election, cancel this choice out of lust and love. He has thus identified massive inadequacy and violations of the law, which no longer rule out the fact that, in the event of manipulation, another election outcome would have occurred. That is the point, but many do not want to stick to it, or do not want to accept it! The media are also an example of this. Despite this insight, which has clearly and clearly highlighted the causes and reasons, this result is mediated differently. For example, I refer to the magazine “NEWS”, where I was entitled: “Why it wasn’t an election fraud” or an announcement that there were no clues, or the “Kurier”, which speaks of the “Chronology of a Farce”. And for many – and unfortunately I have to observe it in the House – it is obviously not a drama if we do not comply with existing laws in Austria. I only refer to the asylum policy in which the rule of law has been removed. That's where we get to the 2nd. October, which was scheduled as a replacement date. The reason why this election day is not possible is that the German Federal Ministry of the Interior, despite the fact that it could have been known in due course of supervision or care that precisely these elections were harmful, because errors and damages were already observed at the 2013 ÖH election and also at the National Council election, as Mr Strache said. But it is obvious to us that the left hand does not know what the right one is doing, or does not want to know, because the question arises whether the individual ministries are not communicating with each other and simply do not pass on such an important message, such as incorrect electoral envelopes, which are also used in other elections. That's actually a failure you shouldn't just talk away like that, and I'm wondering: Who knows what else will happen until the replacement date? I say yes, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we have to worry about voting, but for other reasons, because the population has other concerns: Mass unemployment, migration flood, the highest taxation ever in the Republic. All these are the points why the population becomes lazy. And here, too, the choice of letters does not help, so to speak, as a means of miracle or as a means of all-healing, to move the people, the electors and voters back to being elected. For one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: You can do so with the choice of letter as you want, you will not succeed, namely a free, personal and above all unimpeded choice, as it is only possible in the election cell. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we say that we have to return the choice of letters to what was originally created, namely precisely because our foreign Austrians have the opportunity to choose and also those people who are not in our country on the election day. For all other events and options of choice – see flying electoral commissions, pre-election days and so on – there is sufficient care. – Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10081	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10103	Mr President. Federal Minister! The difficulty in this debate is now to separate the partly comprehensible and also legitimate discussions which Mr Stefan is bringing here and which he would like to discuss in principle about questions of the right to vote from those points of discussion which are an argumentative one, so that I have not come along for a long time now, what you really want to say. On the one hand, Mrs Steger says that there are real reasons why we are moving the election, and that there are other reasons than those that exist here. At the same time, Mrs Steger is making herself up and acting as a defender of the Constitutional Court or the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is similar to when the clubman Lopatka tries to defend the rights of freedom. This is unbelievable because, in particular, the liberals are always those who otherwise call into question the findings of the Constitutional Court. Well, that's extremely difficult. I'm also of the opinion that this knowledge is not only acceptable, but it's also right, but it's a bit difficult when the Clubobmann street is making itself and says: It is important that the election is also carried out properly and that the general right to vote is guaranteed, namely, that each one should: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And we know it's the only way to move it. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] The egg dance just doesn't fit together! We also discussed in the Committee the comparison with the election in Leopoldstadt – Mr. Rosenkranz was the one, and Mr. Stefan was on Sunday in the “In the Center” programme – and there was always the argument that Leopoldstadt had the function of replacing the electoral cards. – We also now have the proof that it obviously didn’t work because we don’t know at least 800 people whether they got the information in time, whether they had the chance to exchange the electoral card, and, and, and. So also the Leopoldstadt is a bad example of how you could have done it. This will keep us at the result: We had no other chance, and there is no other chance – regardless of what happened before. Whoever is guilty is not interested in this situation at all, the only possibility was that we should postpone this choice. The argumentative eiertanz by Klubobmann Strache is making himself here and says: We must guarantee universal suffrage for everyone, everyone must have the opportunity to exercise their right to vote, and the FPÖ will then vote against a shift, leaving me speechless, for that is not understandable.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10154	I call Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10175	Mr President. Federal Minister! In many cases the FPÖ has now put other untruths in the mouth, referring to the Constitutional Court. I have listened very carefully to Mr Strache's speech, and I am actually wondering if that is the case: When is the FPÖ once ready to acknowledge the Constitutional Court's judgment? In his speech, Mr Strache said that it had previously been sorted out 500 000 votes, and that was not acceptable, and it would have been illegal to count 125 000 votes. [[Abg. Höbart: Knowledge of the Constitutional Court!]] – Knowledge of the Constitutional Court! Oh, that's where the expert comes, thanks for the call, Mr Höbart, I've been waiting for him. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Page 99 of 175, knowledge of the Constitutional Court: There the question of so-called pre-sorting has been dealt with. What is meant by this pre-sorting? – By the way, Mr. Strache has said that it is a little different from pre-sorting, because if I sort something out, I take it out, it's gone, it's no longer comprehensible. Pre-arrangement means that the district election authorities, the persons who carry out administrative activities there, will check once the tab is signed, whether the signature is on it, whether the data on it is on it. Then there were two piles, namely the constituency cards, which were pre-classified as correct, and those which were not classified as correct. Both constituency cards are located at the local election authorities, and it was possible to check whether there had been sufficient checks here, Mr Höbart. It is precisely this procedure that the Constitutional Court has reviewed and has found: ‘In the course of the collection of the electoral cards... ‘pre-sorting’ of the electoral cards in voting cards to be included and void’ means, on the basis of further reasons, ‘there is therefore no concern’. That is to say, the pre-sorting has been regarded by the Constitutional Court as in conformity with law. Mr Strache, why are you going here and still coming up with the Bohemian argumentation and pretending that what Böhmdorfer wrote is the argument of the Constitutional Court? That is simple and simply wrong and incorrect. Nor were there 125 000 votes in which illegalities were found – that is what the Böhmdorfer wrote – according to the findings of the Constitutional Court 77 769. [[Abg. Strache: The rest has not been tested at all! Tell the truth!]] . No, it is simply unfavorable, Mr. Strache, that all the districts have been reviewed. According to the Constitutional Court, in some of the districts in which you have fought, it has come to be an exemplary narrative there. He even mentioned that! As a result, it was much less than it was originally inside. You do not accept the Constitutional Court's ruling, you still pretend that the pre-sorting is not correct. Ongoing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: Not all districts have been checked! That's why it was lifted!]] This fits exactly in the picture that Mr Steinhauser has already mentioned. A presidential candidate who says before counting a single vote: Well, that's always the case, let's say, strangely counted! This is a source of distrust in democracy. “Remarkably counted” meant that voices were shifted from one side to the other. That's what you want to suggest. [[Abg. Strache: That was possible! That's why it was lifted up!]] The same is true of the question in the report to Mr Hofer, which distinguishes us from Switzerland. Not the question of how to count, that was not the point. [[Abg. Kickl: Read in your own party archive!]] Do you know what he said after he by the way asked the journalist Schnabl if she knew how to count? And in response to the journalist Schnabl, Mr Hofer said: Now let me talk! – By the way, this is NLP, another form of conversation. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] But the form behind it was: In Switzerland it is strange, because there the votes of the electoral cards are quite identical with the votes in the letter election. We already have a problem: If most of Switzerland is elected by the choice of letters, it must logically have a width in the population. In Austria, it is not that one understands, if in Vienna the proportion of the electoral cards is particularly high and the result of FPÖ was significantly worse at the time of the urn election, and then relatively many electoral cards come in from Vienna that the impact of the FPÖ will be affected. This has to do with logic and mathematics, of course. [[Abg. Strache: That was not the case! It was awarded the post-election results in Vienna by Hofer!]] – Mr. Strache, there have been clearly disproportionate electoral cards in Vienna, so Mr Hofer's vote-card results must have been worse. This has to do with logic and mathematics. They are still trying to disapprove the right to vote. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, they are trying to exclude people from the election. Mr Stefan, you say that everyone can then choose, and then you said in a side note: Well, then, there are freedom of service! With you can choose all those who are abroad, okay, the foreign Austrians can choose who is on vacation in Austria or abroad can also choose. How does this look in the tourist area? How does that look? – The constituency day, okay, there's a constituency day. [[Call the FPÖ:The day of the election!]] And do you seriously believe that tourism is doing the service plans in such a way that the cooks, waiters and waiters, or the lift guards, which are already in question in December, do not have any service on the day of the election or on the day of the regular election? If I stand there in the kitchen and it says that I can't leave now, because by chance the guests come to lunch – in Vorarlberg, where the last constituencies are partly locked at 12 or 1 p.m. – then I only have the opportunity to go to the election commission and nothing else. [[Abg. Kickl: If it goes to Van der Bellen, you don't have to choose anymore!]] They are in favour of taking the right to vote because they cannot even vote. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: How was that 20 years ago?]] So: Don't pretend that's not the conscious attempt to restrict the right to vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10364	Mr Dr Franz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10385	Mr President. Minister! High house! I think now some medical corrections are necessary. There was a lot of talk about patients in charge, stationary patients, nursing homes and cetera. We need to know that we currently have about 100 000 dementia patients in Austria, most of whom exercise their right to vote, because they live 80 percent at home and are, to a large extent, brief voters. What this means for the families and what this means in itself for the right to vote, everyone can now imagine for themselves the possibility of abuse. [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] This is something that we have to deal with very intensively: how much a right to vote is linked to the cognitive ability to look at one's life at all, how much the right to vote is still valid, practicable and judicable, if there is a serious dementia in which one can do nothing more and one is controlled for all areas of life. [[Abg. Strache: That even demanded the margin!]] This is something we have to deal with, quite simply for the reason, because the number of dements in Austria increases daily. Now that Mr Stefan has just said here and to say that this should only serve the FPÖ or a manipulative change of the right to vote, if you address this problem, as has been done by Mr Vilimsky, then that is not all right. This is a problem that we have to deal with. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] According to serious estimates by neurologists over the next 30 years in Austria, we are expected to triple the number of dementia patients. These are about 300 000 Austrians in 2050, who will no longer be able to look at their daily lives due to their dementia. Please, you can't do that anymore with the words that this is only a few in the nursing homes or a few people who are being cared for at home, but it has a very massive influence on the majority relationships if the secret right to vote is no longer to be kept at home and also in the homes! I have personally experienced as a senior physician of the municipality of Vienna in a hospital, how the freedom of choice or the personal right to vote is dealt with in mentally restricted patients. That mocks every description, and we all know that this is reality in all homes in Austria and in all hospitals. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's our damn duty for us to point out and deal with these things, because this has a profound impact on the majority relations in Austria. If there are open doors and gates here, to do with electoral cards at home or also in homes or with flying constituencies that are not optimally composed, then this House of course has to deal with it. Who else, please? If the media are to regulate this for us, the neurologists should arrange for us, we should make medical election tests, for example, we should establish a sort of electoral license from the 65th or 70th. Year of life? These are questions that we must ask ourselves, because that is quite essential. Again: It is about majority relations, it is about the personality of the right to vote, it is about a really essential democratic property, and it is not simply a matter of wiping it away by assuming to Mr Vilimsky that he would call these people devalued here. Not at all, he didn't. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Didn't he do it? That was an official broadcast from him!]] There are people who are limited in business capacity and controlled and have a dementia. We must deal with this, it is important for the people of Europe, it is politically important and it is important for democracy. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To the election card in itself: Why, please, must a choice always take place on a Sunday? Why can't this happen like in England or in America under the week? Then the entire tourism argument et cetera is gone! People go to work, get out, go to the next constituency and choose there. It takes a quarter of an hour, and the matter is fixed, and no one has the excuse anymore: It was too nice weather, I didn't want to or I had to go swimming with the family. These are ridiculous arguments, but they mock democracy itself. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Let's make a right to vote that we can exercise under the week, and the thing is going on! This will also increase the number of voters. We don't need to discuss for long. From my point of view, the whole issue of electoral cards has been addressed quite correctly: Choosing by means of voting cards is limited to Austrians abroad. In patients who are heavily bedridden, who are severely ill in the hospital or who are in nursing homes, you can discuss this. In this direction you have to re-developed this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10474	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1257 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr. Strolz, colleagues, tabled an additional request. Furthermore, there is one by the honourable Member Mag. Stefan's request for separate vote. I am therefore going to vote first on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr. Strolz, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new Z 4a. Who is for that, I am looking for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Now we come to a separate vote on Z 6 § 26b para. 2, second and third sentences, and Article 26b(3), (4), (7) and (8), as amended by the Committee's report. I am seeking the approval of those members of the House who give these parts of the bill an important sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:20:03]] 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the financial statements for 2015 (III-262/1256 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10563	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10591	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Even the fact that we can welcome the President of the Court of Auditors – which I very much support – but not the Minister of Finance, already shows one of the fundamental problems of the Austrian federal accounts. It is quite unique in international comparison that the control institution submits the billing and not the Federal Government, which is also responsible for its content. There would also be no association to the idea that he would have the annual accounts made by the auditor and not by the financial officer who would have to answer him and then be relieved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the annual accounts of the Republic this is happening, and we will have to talk about it in principle and in principle, Mr Krainer, there is also a study of the budget service. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] But now on the figures presented: Earnings of €74.4 billion are compared with €79.2 billion, which is a minus, a deficit of €4.8 billion. Budgeted was a minimum of € 7.2 billion, but before you break out in jubilation that this minus is less than feared, you should look at the reasons for this. That's what I'm doing now, because then you're coming up very quickly, where this lower minus comes from. On the one hand, higher tax revenues from the cold progression, i.e. by the non-inflational adjustment of the wage tax, which means that everyone who receives a salary increase and thus falls into a higher tax rate, pays more taxes than before and thus gives the Minister of Finance a basket money. We are also, unfortunately, miles away from the promised abolition of cold progression in our country. But also the second reason for these unplanned tax revenue is that a large part are so-called preferential effects – preferential effects on capital income taxes and on basic income tax due to tax reform or collective reform 2015/2016. And as is the case with preferential effects, they are pre-eminences, that is, advances to the future. We already feel this very clearly this year in the first half of the year, and we are now being presented with the invoice for these preferential effects of the previous year. With the success of the current financial year, we see very clearly that revenue from these taxes is falling dramatically, and this will also give us a very, very bad result for 2016. If you look at the expenditure side, you can see that the low interest rates have a positive impact, but on the other hand, €482 billion of additional expenditure from the increased unemployment to book, especially in sub-group 11, with additional costs of €250 million to deal with the refugee crisis, the migration crisis which this Federal Government owes through the unjustified border opening and which will cost us billions over the next few years, depending on the study between €2 billion and €2 billion each year. So what remains to be said? – deficit of €4.8 billion; the debt of the Republic increased by €13.3 billion to €290.7 billion – 86.2 percent of GDP. The reserves have increased by one billion to 19.5 billion euros, of which only 16 billion euros in the detailed budgets of the resorts, with no human being – not even the budget service of this house – being able to say how this should ever be dismantled and realized. But the worst is the change in the net assets of the Republic. This indicator for financial sustainability has deteriorated by €5 billion, the Republic holds a negative net assets of minus €153.4 billion. That is indeed not a leaf of glory. It is also not surprising that the Court of Auditors has had to object in the examination of the documents 750 – that is, more than half of the evidence examined in the total of 1 449. The Court of Auditors has also had to correct some €950 million by means of corrections made by it. That says in itself volumes, for every entrepreneur would be mercilessly punished by the financial if he were “careful” as the covenant would. [[Abg. Krainer: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Krainer: That's wrong what you say!]] It would therefore be fairer, in the light of my considerations at the beginning of my speech, if the Minister of Finance would and should be here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10653	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10676	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider, it is unfortunately a lot wrong what you are saying. [[Abg. Haider: “Yes”!]] The €950 million corrections have not been made by the Court of Auditors, but about a third of them by the Court of Auditors, two thirds by the departments themselves. But what you are right with is that the Minister of Finance is naturally free to take part in the debate. This is his decision, however, whether or not he participates in it. [[Abg. Haider: Nice for the Minister!]] He took part in the Committee on Budgets. However, I have believed that you will now come out and explain to us the role of catastrophic blue politics in Carinthia in the debt of the Republic. I thought one would finally come out and take responsibility for the disaster of the hypo. We have seen clearly in the committee of inquiry where responsibility lies on the disaster. That's with the liberals in Carinthia! [[Abg. Neubauer: Is that where you requested the reports? Haven't you been shown?]] I thought that at last one came out and recognized it and said: Yes, that was our fault! This – at the end of the day, we don't know – 8 or 9 billion €, yes, we have to answer as a liberal! – But once again, I'm still waiting for it to happen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wöger.]] I believe that we should also simply talk in general about the economic situation in Austria and, above all, about the economic situation in the European Union. We can only bring the European Union on a new path if we boost investment and boost the economy. However, this requires the interaction of the European institutions and national governments. We need more growth, that kind of growth, which, like the tides by the sea, lifts all boats and not just a few yachts. Yes, I am for the doubling of the Juncker Fund after an appropriate evaluation of the first phase, whether it works well. But I am not sure if it is really enough to double the “only” – under quotation marks. With the Juncker Fund, we have found a model in Europe that allows public funds to be raised through private money, a better linkage of European monetary and fiscal policies could create more scope. This is also urgently necessary, because the slow fiscal policy at European level and also at national level have taken much of its potential from the ECB's determined interventions. The main cause of the sustainable crisis in Europe is the low level of investment. The economists Stephany Griffith-Jones and Giovanni Cozzi have impressively predicted the book published in a recent book: “The fall in the investment rate in relation to gross domestic product was dramatic in the southern euro area, falling from 21.7 percent in 2007 to 14 percent in 2014. In the UK this case was similarly sharp, from 15.9% in 2007 to 11 percent in 2012 (...). If you set an investment rate of 19 to 21 percent as average and normal, it can be seen that even in those countries that were somewhat well hit by the crisis, the investments were more thin. Even in Germany, the value in 2014 was just 17.5 percent.” However, the industrial sector is the source of innovation and the basis of stable economic development in Europe. We know this particularly in Austria, because this strong industry has, of course, helped us very well in the crisis. We should therefore not afford any further weakening of the European industry, but this is precisely the weak investment that costs the industrial sector a lot of future potential. However, public investment in the EU and the euro area must not continue to decline. On the contrary! More investment in infrastructure needs to be made. In competition with the other major economic areas – the United States and Asia – Europe needs strong transport and energy networks, as well as strong digital networks in rural areas, saying: broadband development and the like. If one compares the economic performance of Europe with that of the United States, it turns out that we have not done everything right since the crisis broke out. While in the United States it has been relatively rapid to reduce unemployment to a pre-crisis level and to increase investment significantly, there is an investment gap in Europe and persistently high unemployment, especially among young people. The partly serious impact of austerity programmes on economic growth and employment has been systematically underestimated. Many institutions such as the International Monetary Fund or the OECD have now recognized this. But the damage has already arisen, of course, because many people in Europe have suffered permanently under this policy, as well as their belief in the prosperity promise of European agreement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler.]] Finally, the mismanagements and the above-mentioned misevaluations of the institutions are based on the idea that a withdrawal of the state from the economic situation would in any case lead to better results and more growth. But we know that this is, of course, wrong. But modern economies do not work that way. You know that. Even within economies, markets are structures, some of which only arise only through publicly driven investments – through research, through the establishment of innovation clusters, through smart economic policies, which ensure that capital flows into forward-looking sectors. This is true already in normal times, but especially in times of crisis in which too little investment is being made. I think we need a plan for Europe that generates growth and more prosperity through investment and innovation. To benefit those who need growth most urgently. Wage development must go up again, unemployment must fall, and more good jobs must be created, of which people can also live. The large European internal market offers sufficient opportunities and outlets. We will only move forward if we raise prosperity with each other. I would like to refer to the previous image: As the flood lifts all boats and not just a few yachts – just as our economic policy should lead to us all being better and not just a few. The discussions over the next few weeks on the 2017 budget, I think, provide a good opportunity to think about what we use the money for in our budget, what we can do in particular for growth, what investments we can make, because it is not always like what a business is doing and what the state is doing. It is very little comparable. But one thing is probably true of both: The one who does not invest today has no future tomorrow or, at least, a much worse future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10759	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10780	Mr President. Madam President, Mr Kraker! Budgets are the government programme cast in figures, it is usually said. We are discussing today this government programme, which fulfils and discharges the government. We do this regularly in the absence of the Federal Government, there is no one there! [[point to empty places on the government bank]] [[Abg. Moser: Eh!]] When the Federal Proposal is decided, all the members of the Government are present, but when discussing the financial statements, it is not even worth the effort of the Finance Ministers to get here. There is a legitimate question: Why is that so? – Yes, we are formally discussing a report from the Court of Auditors and not a report from the Government. And why is that so? – This is due to the fact that we in Austria have the practice of the Court of Auditors drawing up both the accounts and the audit. This is strange and contradicts international standards. It was a mixture of responsibilities. This has been determined by the budget service in a study I have commissioned. We – all the political groups in this House – should therefore consider this procedure and come to a solution that meets international standards – standards that, for example, the Ministry of Finance draws up the accounts and examines the Court of Auditors and then gives the whole message of confirmation. But now to the invoice itself: The financial statements show generally satisfactory results. All budget balances are better than in the year before. They are also better than in the proposal itself. We have already achieved the structurally balanced budget target earlier than planned, even significantly lowered. This, of course, has many causes. It has not only been the budget implementation referred to by the Minister of Finance on a regular basis, there are also many special effects. There are many budgetary upholstery, for example, in the tax revenue that was deliberately under-backed in the Federal Financial Framework Act in spring 2015. Well, if, as it were, you have upholstery – by the way, even in billions of interest rates – at the end of the day, you can easily say that our budget targets are better than we indicated in the proposal. However, there are also areas in which the results were actually better. I would like to point out the area of pension insurance, in which we are about €750 million better. On the other hand, there are areas that are under-funded, such as education. [[Abg. Loacker: The Social Ministry always tricks... Number shift!]] Although we corrected that in 2015, in 2016 we have this gap again and in 2017 we will also have it. Now, in principle, the Minister of Finance is making budgets bad, even if the results are great, I think. He regularly turns to the government bank here and tells us again and again: We have a problem with spending. - Well, then he should look into the billing. I cannot see this expenditure problem. The expenditure ratio drops from 2014 to 2015 from 52.6 percent of GDP to 51.7 percent of GDP. And the Minister of Finance regularly calls for structural reforms. Structural reforms, in such a way as to say: We have to cut back on minimum insurance, we have to cut back on unemployment insurance, we have to cut back on pension insurance. True structural reforms remain on the long-term bank, such as the reform of federal structures. What's going on? - Nothing's going on! Whoever heard Mr. Wallner from Vorarlberg early today knows that there will definitely be no reform of the federal structures in this financial compensation. This new financial compensation, which is already fixed, is a bankruptcy declaration for Schelling – despite full-fledged announcements he made a year or more ago – and a bankruptcy declaration for the government. However, what is needed – as Mr Krainer is right – are expenditure programmes to close the investment gaps in Europe, in Austria. What Austria needs are structural reforms on the tax side. That means: We need to consider how we can raise the taxation of assets, how we can implement an eco-tax reform while at the same time reducing wages and additional labour costs, i.e. not increasing the tax rate. It is worth thinking about and working on it. However, we must also ensure that once and for all this tax avoidance practice is abolished from Apple to Starbucks by international large companies. This would make our Minister of Finance deserve spores. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we look at a report submitted by the European Commission a few days ago when it examined the stability programmes, I note that there is something inside – this report is here: [[Keeping a document in height]] Austria has a certain margin for an expansive budget policy without endangering its sustainable budget policy. - Quote. So the Minister of Finance should not always, and you should not always talk about the expenditure problems that are not present. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Read this report, yes! – Look [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, record tax receipts are blown!]] Get in there once! And then we will talk, Mr Loacker. Finally, another point that is at my heart: A few years ago, we decided on a budgetary reform. There is a volume in the accounts, which deals with faultshooting procedures, which is Volume 3, which has 284 pages. It lists the flaws and sluttings of the federal government in the accounting and in the budgeting process. It would be worthwhile to drastically reduce this deficiency settlement procedure to its extent. It is, by the way, a declaration of bankruptcy, a certificate of poverty for the Minister of Finance, that, despite many causes, he is not willing and able to stop these sluts. On the contrary! What's he doing? – He feels simple and simply not responsible. The overall budget responsibility does not exist for him. He is putting the blame on the resorts, which are obviously not willing and able to fix these mistakes. But if we decide on a new budgetary law, we should also implement it, otherwise we will have put up a lot of effort and at the end of the day find that we have come to budgeting practices that we have had in the past. The statement of results and assets is simply wrong, Mr Haider. I wouldn't use them. I warn you because it simply leads to false conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10869	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10890	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to welcome the President to us for the first time today. Today we have the first meeting after the summer, and the President of the Court of Auditors is here for the first time in the House at a plenary session. She was in the Committee on Budgets last week and held an intensive debate there with the Members. Much of this has already been said by my previous speakers. Yes, one can of course be completely different about the 2015 financial statements. You can say: If expenditure has fallen relative to gross domestic product and revenue has increased, then we have not budgeted as much as we should imagine. I'm just saying, We have for the year 2016 with 1. A tax reform was decided by January, which of course also brought preferential effects for, for example, the 2015 financial statements. This is always the case if you decide on a tax reform which is also linked to counter-financing measures. However, we also see – and the President of the Court of Auditors has said that gratefully in the Committee – first of all that we will not get to grips without structural reforms. In 2018 we will have the greatest difficulties in budgeting. But it has also shown that, in terms of a certain degree of reform and inefficiency, dual-tracking and skill overlaps, it could improve the use of resources. For example, the fields of education, pensions, health, social affairs, research and promotion have been mentioned. Now it is always said that education is under-compulsory. But we have also heard in the last few days – last week – that we are using a high amount per student in the OECD comparison. However, there is not such a high output as we invest in money in the education sector. That means we need a massive increase in efficiency, and we also need reforms. It's not just a cut, Mr Rossmann. It is not always a question of reducing expenditure, for example in the case of minimum security. [[Abg. Rossmann:... OECD!]] This is not a reduction in the labour market, but if we take a horrendous amount for active labour market policies, and then we do not succeed in reducing unemployment rates, but in increasing them steadily, then we have to consider whether the funds are used properly in the various areas. I believe that this has also been the criticism of the President of the Court of Auditors, namely the use of funds on the one hand and the respective output on the other. I'm just thinking about it: We have awarded almost €600 million to the Federal Financial Framework for Integration, for example in German courses and other measures. Unfortunately, however, we cannot even see whether these German courses also lead to the integration into the labour market of those who are ultimately asyl. That means we need a more efficient budget. And that is what the Minister of Finance always says. Regarding the criticism of why the Minister of Finance is not sitting on the government bank: Well, because at the moment we have this phenomenon that the Court of Auditors has prepared and audited the annual accounts. The Minister for Finance said quite clearly at the Budget Committee meeting: If you want to change this, the Ministry of Finance is ready. That's not a problem. The criticism that has come to the paragraph 9 reviews and the inadequate bookings: It must also be said, of course, that Mrs Sectionschefin Berger in the Budget Committee has said that since the evaluation of budgetary law, the third stage of budgetary reform, discussions have been held with the respective budgetary authorities, that there are training courses, and that we are gradually trying to improve the matter here too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] The time would not be enough to address everything my previous speakers have said, but one thing I would like to say: We are always talking about the fact that tax revenue is therefore increased or wage tax revenue is always rising because there is the cold progression. The Minister for Finance sets out a concept of how to eliminate this cold progression, but there is a different opinion for our coalition partner at the moment. Nevertheless, I am convinced that we will agree, because ultimately it is about to relieve taxpayers. And as far as the cold progression is concerned, a huge step has been taken. Another issue on tax fraud: Of course, tax relief and tax havens belong to them. It's a fight against tax flight. You've seen that at Apple's. Then, of course, there are those who say: Insanity, the punishments! You can't do that! So I believe that every Austrian company paying taxes in Austria should also be in favour of punishing the tax refugees very well. That's the one side. And on the other hand, I have spoken more often, and the Minister of Finance has also said it at the Budget Committee meeting: We must try to ensure that we can introduce the reverse-charge system in Austria. Then we would finally get rid of the sales tax fraud – which is now happening again and again – at last. In this sense: We can only continue the consistent consolidation path. We need to implement reforms. We don't fail. We're on it. And the Minister of Finance is a good negotiator, Mr Rossmann, because you don't have to worry!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10933	Mrs Gamon. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e10954	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I am very pleased that you are present to us for the first time in plenary, especially on this important subject. What probably sounds relatively dry at first glance also looks dry at second glance. However, it is more important to take account of extremes of balance, especially if you have learned to account. It may be possible to make it clear to a number how responsible in our Republic is, in part, also dealing with the money of the Austrians: The assets currently amount to minus € 153 billion. At the moment, the Federal Chancellor is always happy to take the example of the Entrepreneurial State, the Entrepreneurial State, of Professor Mazzucato. However, if you were to take the entrepreneurial state as an example, you would have to be able to evaluate it as well as a private-sector company in its balance sheet – and it does not look good. The total assets of € 88 billion, with € 24 billion, face 241 billion of debt. That means we have to sell all our assets in triple execution in order to become debt-free. Considering that we have every year social contributions of €50 billion, we would have to take these over the next three years in order to cover the debts again, and would just be in the case of net debt. This is €20 000 for individual citizens. After all, that's what an unemployed employee deserves a year, so not to mention. This may also help to make these inconceivable amounts more apparent. A rising debt burden and thus also an increasing interest rate burden – that may not be so dramatic at the moment. But interest rates will probably change again in the future, which also means that we will have an exponentially less money available for future investments in the future. Every euro we put in interest, we have less for universities, less for broadband expansion in the country. And there is also a morning and a next generation who have a right to live free of the liabilities that a government has received for them, but without their consent. The government is not doing much, and the Court of Auditors has nevertheless taken an unusually sharp assessment of this in the 2015 BRA, namely – quote –: "As the data of this BRA 2015 show, there are significant risks to successfully cope with the budgetary challenges of the coming years: – Risks of spending [...] – Risks of using funds [...] – Risks in the banking sector [...] and – Risks of meeting EU budget targets.’ The Court of Auditors thus proves that we will have problems with this and is in principle committed to a turnaround in the management of the budget in Austria. I do not think we need to debate where there could be a fundamental separation in Austria. We all agree here that there are many possibilities in the area of pensions, but also in general in the field of administration, in the health field would be much more efficient everywhere, where you can really save money to make the administration and the country future fit. However, I would also like to thank Mr Rossmann for starting the debate on the fundamental implementation of the federal accounts, because it is really internationally abstrust that a body that should actually examine should also create the federal accounts itself. This is not only unusual, but probably at first and second glance it is a bit bizarre and not very meaningful. We believe that the Minister of Finance should present the financial statements on the budget and that the Court of Auditors should, of course, examine them in retrospect as an audit institution. I would also like us to be able to hold a debate on the basic tasks of the Court of Auditors this new year, perhaps in the National Council. We thought about it before the summer and started it. This debate is extremely important because we are constantly burdening this most important audit instrument to our Members here in Parliament with non-exhaustive and really resource-binding tasks, which ultimately also take the impact on the Court of Auditors which it would really need. That cannot be in all our interests, therefore this issue, who makes the federal accounts, would really also be something we should be addressing quickly! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11020	Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11042	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! What does the 2015 Federal Accounting Accounting Office, which is currently in the House for discussion, show in the main key figures? We are pleased to say: Austria has an orderly government budget and is based on stable figures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] For years, the European Commission has estimated the structural budget deficit higher. For years we have been better and better: in 2015 by 0.5 percent better than forecast. That's what we're talking about at least €1.7 billion. What does that mean for concrete policy measures? – In other words, there are funds available for active growth policies, for example for the labour market, for infrastructure, for education. Where can we see further positive effects? – The federal accounts are clear: The reform steps introduced in the pension system – in particular the increase in the retirement age – have an effect. State subsidies are falling into the pension system, people are in employment for longer, so pay. What has the Court of Auditors still held in the accounts? – The overall economic situation has improved, clearly according to the following indicators: GDP growth, employment and current account as well as price stability have increased. That means we meet the stability criteria. Nevertheless, necessary reforms must be made in order to prepare skills and structures. About Reforms: Let's take a quick look at the 2016 budget implementation! We see: The tax reform is taking effect. We have relieved the factor of work, conclusion: It remains more for consumption. People have more to spend. It's obvious: Income from sales tax and private consumption has recently increased significantly. What we need, of course, is public investment. Ladies and gentlemen, let me take a look at the offensive of our Federal Chancellor Christian Kern! By significantly increasing the eco-taxes, especially those on fossil energies – heating oil, coal – important impulses are set to motivate, to switch to alternative energy sources. Although there are differing views in various fields, Minister of Finance Schelling fully supports the course of Chancellor Christian Kern on the subject of environmental tax reform. The Minister for Finance also reaffirmed this in the Committee on Budgets. Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed: Before us there are very big challenges. However, the facts in the federal accounts and the successes of reforms that have already been implemented are very good reasons to continue the process of reform optimistically. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11091	Mr Ddr. Fuchs. Doctor, I will have to interrupt you at 3 p.m. unless the speech is finished at 3 p.m. [[Abg. Fuchs: That's not going to happen!]] But now it's 4 minutes. I have to ask you to speak. I'll just have to interrupt you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11123	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Values Advisors! The Federal Government today wants to be relieved by the National Council regarding the 2015 federal accounts and does not even find it worth the effort to be here today. For this reason, FPÖ will vote against the 2015 federal accounts. But that's not the only reason. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government does not have a proper accounting system either. The Court of Auditors has identified massive deficiencies in the Federal Government's financial statements for 2015. If an undertaking's accounting system had the same shortcomings as the federal accounting system, the financial office would appreciate the entrepreneur and delete the pre-tax deduction. Financial consequences would not be unlikely. If entrepreneurs have to comply with all accounting rules on points and commas, this must also apply to the Federal Ministries at least to the same extent. It must not be measured by two measures. The Court of Auditors' audit of the regularity and evidence has given a disastrous picture for the Federal Ministries. The Court of Auditors reviewed in a total of 1 449 documents, of which the Court of Auditors challenged 750 for having shortcomings – inconceivable 51.8% of the verified evidence was therefore defective! The look is, in particular, a bad one for the Ministry of Finance, which should actually be a model function. [[Abg. Fekter:... from the resorts! Not from the ministry!]] In individual areas, 100 percent of the verified evidence was formally defective in the Ministry of Finance – 100 percent of the evidence! You have to imagine that! What is to be thought of by an entrepreneur whose evidence is turned three times over by the Financial Office, and which is embarrassingly scrutinized? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us now come to further shortcomings that the Court of Auditors has identified with the Ministries. First: The Court of Auditors has identified significant shortcomings in the internal control system in the ministries during the three main audits. Secondly, The Ministries' earnings and assets accounts continued to show a number of massive shortcomings and mistakes, as they did in the previous year. Thirdly, The Court of Auditors also pointed to serious shortcomings in the budgeting process, such as the systematic budgeting of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice and the Federal Chancellery. The Federal Chancellery was not even able to budget the interests of the government members and the heads of state at the right level. What does the Federal Chancellery say about this? – The Federal Chancellery established the subsidisation with the restrictive budget targets of the BMF for the 2015 Federal Estimate. Isn't that inconceivable? There you can only shake your head, as is budgeted in the Federal Chancellery.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11171	I am interrupting the honourable Member in his speech so that the short debate on a question under the Rules of Procedure can take place at 3 p.m. at the latest. [[15:00:19]] Short debate on the response to the question 8855/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11193	We are now entering the brief debate on the German Chancellor's response to the question with the order number 8855/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Mag. Kogler as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11232	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, you are probably the one in the Federal Government who is most likely to have to do with the CETA sludge, which was set up here, or could have something to do with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] Nevertheless, you're here. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would remind you of the announcement made by the President today at 9.07 a.m.: The Federal Chancellor Mag. The core is the Vice-Cancellor Dr. Mitterlehner. The fact that it is not the case now will also have reasons. It is not illegal either, it can also be represented. It is clear to us that it would have happened on the other hand if Parliament had been informed who was ultimately the representative. This concerns all of you, no matter what couleur, because the special probability that a minister should come here surprisingly and not planably is always given at 3 p.m. plus always if either a urgent or just this instrument is required. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] Be quiet. So why you can't tell that accordingly, and whether an appointment existed or one was invented for Mr Mitterlehner, you have to clarify it separately. [[Congratulations with Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Anyway, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, he's got one in Bratislava: Informal Trade Council, very important – informal is usually more important than formal, that is not different from Austria – and that is why, of course, we are state-of-the-art here. If this had not been done, a urgent request or a urgent request would have been appropriate. Now, however, we are referring to a series of inquiries. We would have liked to have the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany here, because his answers to many aspects of CETA – no one should claim that we are not dealing with it in detail – are particularly interesting. Moreover, we have asked similar questions to several ministers, including Mr Vice-Chancellor. In part, the answers from Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Chancellor differ on similar issues; all of this cannot now be addressed. However, and we want to focus on this briefly, the Federal Chancellor writes to us, to the National Council in its reply to the last question we asked here, namely how the decision-making in the Council of the EU should look and whether there is a single line of government on CETA: The Federal Government shall represent a common and concerted position with regard to the approval or rejection of the Agreement. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Voted!]] So just to write: ‘The Federal Government shall represent a common, coordinated position with regard to the approval or rejection of the Agreement.’ Well, it'll be of interest tomorrow and the day after. I will now briefly discuss it with you after I want to lose a few words about the history, because always so is done – so that we can warm up for TTIP – as if there were already so much discussion and everything was so transparent. In Austria, this is in a certain way so, as the opposition – not only us, but also the Greens – makes a lot of pressure so that it is at all a topic, as it is here and today and also in the past. But the government itself has rarely gotten anything up to nothing. You've got to see that before. It is precisely the previous government that is able to do so. They have nothing to do with that which a negotiating mandate has given not only for TTIP but also for CETA. [[towards State Secretary Duzdar]] That is why Commissioner Malmström is right. It has negotiated on behalf of the governments, i.e. red and black in Austria. This has now been criticized, in the place not quite wrong, having reference to this member survey in the Social Democratic Party. But I don't want to do it so cheaply and I don't want to go into the cheap question at all. We're not going to stop here. We ask: What can the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor do if they already lean out of the window? However, Parliament has never been involved. One can speak well with those I do not dispute, with Mr Mitterlehner in particular, with Mr Kern we will still see it. It is already training itself more – like its predecessor – in public appearances and in insect-like announcements. We will still see that, but Mr Mitterlehner can be disputed. As they do in the government, however, is not quite clear, and we want to clarify this now, especially since it is interesting what happened between red and black in 2013. There was expressly CETA, and this really has to be broken on the tongue, unlike TTIP, the so-called investment protection, vulgo the privileged investor-clad, expressly declared in the mandate afterwards! And the Council's Legal Service said: Yes, but you know, you have to be careful, because we have to make it clear whether national parliaments can vote on it or not. – We have understood all of this in the confidential protocols. Social democracy is nowhere to be found, not even in homeopathic doses, but it is always with us. Always with you! If we now have a chancellor who leans so boldly out of the window, then we all want to contribute to the fact that he does not fall out completely. That wouldn't be good either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact that the Vice-President is not going to make a major contribution is already recognizable and to be expected unless the Secretary of State now tells us how the government’s “joint, coordinated position” will look forward to tomorrow. Now it's up to you. We do not need to stop for long, CETA is not as bad as TTIP's fears, but it is enough that leads to wrong results at the wrong level. There are also some poison teeth inside, such as this famous investor protection. There will be nothing to help – perhaps you, Mrs State Secretary, say something about it – that now Canada and the Union are making an addition, a so-called pack or clarification, to clarify. Since or where the contract is unclear, where there is room for interpretation, it can help legally, logically, but for the material inclusions in the contract there is no change due to the supplement. You still eat the medicine, not the side dish. If a sugar glaze is placed over the bitter pill – now the sugar bakers of all couleurs are on their way, including the red sugar bakers, Gabriel, Trudeau, as they all are called, it's funny to look at – this doesn't make things any better in the core. She's not gonna be better! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Not even in...!]] You should now just make this clear and look at how it will occur, from tomorrow. It is about this special case-law of the major groups in particular – SMEs in Austria and Germany are also in a number of ways opposed to these agreements, because they see that something is played out to them, of which they have nothing, but only the large groups. The German Richterbund is against it precisely because there is no legal necessity and no basis at all and so on and so on. But no, it'll insist. It was the same predicament there. It is now called the Investment Court, although it has nothing to do with a normal Court of Justice. It remains a number of Group privileges, which are then treated privately, and one pretends to be a Court of Justice. That alone is already to be rejected! Just that. That's exactly the poison tooth you don't get out with this crazed sideboard, because that counts the matter of the contract. The arbitration court is going to shave a deuce about what's spilled around on any glaze. Now we want to know what it will be like tomorrow. It is not only about individual points of content, but also about the so-called provisional application, the experts know it. So what is the only matter of the Parliament of the Union? What the hell is going to come here? I find that already the summit of naughtiness: This Parliament is not involved when negotiating what is going on here and what is being voted on elsewhere. It's unacceptable! Where's that happening? – Somewhere around the trade ministers, all of this cannot even be understood in the confidential protocols, but probably tomorrow and the day after. It's not much time anymore. After all, it is only more than a month, and I would ask you, Mrs State Secretary, to inform you about the common position on the provisional application, which is exactly what it is all about, that you have less to talk about than you already have to talk about. It is therefore important to pay close attention. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that there are binding opinions from this House – let me say this to Mr Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chanzler, who is going there tomorrow – who are based on the national conference on the one hand – these are not necessarily our friends, but there are also lucid moments there. They have adopted a legally binding opinion which addresses precisely this provisional application and which the arbitration courts expressly wish to have outside. This is binding under the Austrian Constitution. The National Council's main committee referred to this issue. On June of this year, it was included in the content and has also committed it – the Federal Government, I mean now. So in that respect, there could be a common, coordinated position at least on the biggest problems, but not because chancellors and vice chancellors and red and black agree, but because this Parliament has done something. So we want to know whether the representatives of the Austrian Federal Government comply with Parliament's requirements. To conclude: How is it that Mr Chancellor wants to speed up the whole process or fix the most important points by saying in the Council that Austria will not agree? Yes, there is a qualified majority there, which only confuses everyone, but there are also international provisions for these state agreements, which then provide for everyone to sign extra. In Austria, we have the following procedure: unanimous decision by the Federal Government, mandate on the President of the Federal Republic of Germany – now on your Bureau, Mr President – to the member responsible, and that is now in the run-up to Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[in the direction of the Abg. Hofer]] If he was asked tomorrow, he would have to say: No, it looks that way with us, because Parliament and the federal states have decided to do so. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Make sure he does so, otherwise Mr. Kern will continue the usual “Kronen Zeitung” line of his predecessor, where he tells something and then does something else. If it comes to it, 27 or 28. In fact, Austria would have to refuse to sign on the basis of the decision. We want to know what that is. So what is the common and the voting? – Please explain this to us!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11325	Ms Mag. State Secretary has given his opinion on the matter. Duzdar. Mrs State Secretary, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11346	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, Chancellor Christian Kern is currently in New York at the UN General Assembly. I can therefore speak here today in his office. Austria is an open economy. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Representation of Mitterlehner...?]] – I represent the Federal Chancellor in Parliament. [[Prolonged calls.]] Austria is an open economy, and this openness has helped us to have a high level of employment for decades. This openness has also contributed to the prosperity of large population groups, and in the future, Austria should benefit from an increasingly integrated global economy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yes, in fact, trade and economic integration can increase the prosperity of all those involved, but one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: The rules of global trade must be actively designed, since global trade without appropriate rules of play can increase prosperity as such but not necessarily justly spread between all people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] Therefore, it is our duty as a policy to ensure that global trade in our society benefits everyone and there are no losers. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Schieder: Pirklhuber is for losers!]] Without such rules of play, global trade does not take into account the climate, the environment, and without appropriate rules, global trade does not take account of democratic decision-making processes. It does not, as we have just seen, lead to fair taxation of those who often benefit most from it. We therefore have to ensure that all of this is done. That is to say, our task is to see political design spaces grow larger and not narrowed down, because this is a fundamental prerequisite for us to be able to meet the challenges of a globalised world as well. The balance must not shift to the benefit of global corporations and to democratic decisions. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Then there is no signature!]] All of this also applies to CETA, because I would like to make this clear: We are, of course, for global trade, we are in favour of deepening the economic relationship with Canada as an important partner and a good friend. With Canada, we often connect more than we separate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] In particular, there would be a great opportunity to build on common principles and to be a model for making world trade social and fair. In our decision, ladies and gentlemen, whether Austria should agree to this agreement or not, we also have the task, as a policy, of weighing the opportunities and risks. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Contract is done!]] Against the background of the critical attitude, we have to deal with the risks in particular with further sections of the population and many critical decisions – in the federal government, in the countries, in the municipalities. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Contract is negotiated, Mrs. Colleague!]] By the way, this is not a populism, but it shows political sense of responsibility. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] With regard to the opportunities, experts say that CETA can make a positive contribution to EU GDP. However, the European Commission assumes an effect in the order of €12 billion. This is basically a little less than 0.1% of the EU's GDP, that is, even under this assumption, at best, it is a small measure. The question of the risks is much more complex, as the risks cannot easily be quantified. The question is whether the basic principles I have set out to you are being fulfilled or whether there is a risk of these being eroded in realistic scenarios. Although CETA is a further development compared to previous agreements – such as the basic principle, the right of the State to regulatory measures, or there are also its own chapters on social and environmental sustainability – there are quite comprehensible concerns that focus on three main areas: first, investment protection and the dispute resolution mechanism therein; second, the protection of general care; third, the enforcement of the principles contained in the Treaty in the field of social and environmental sustainability. Let me take a brief look at the following: In the field of investment protection, we already have to ask ourselves whether or not we wish to allow investors to complain under what conditions and can allow them to be allowed to complain beyond proper jurisdiction. In any event, we must not allow States to take regulatory measures in the interests of the population or no longer want to do so because the risk of high claims for damages and compensation for damages inhibits these projects. We therefore see this as a very central issue, as one of the most important areas of the agreement, which must at least be discussed and decided here in the House. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is German position...!]] In the field of general care, it must always be true that the liberalisation and deregulation measures imposed are not irreversible, because just general care is one of the most important prerequisites for social justice and participation in our society. Thirdly, social and environmental sustainability: Many critics are skeptical of whether the agreement can actually contribute to the effective enforcement of the required standards. Of course, the question is why, in the field of investment protection, additional measures are actually being created to enforce interests, but in other areas such measures are not being implemented. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In these critical areas, which I have now mentioned, there must therefore be substantial improvements before a decision on the Treaty is taken at European level. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11519	We are now going into the debate. The first one is Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. The speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11544	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, it is an important debate, on the other hand a rather unfavourable time, because 20 minutes ago the meeting of the Canadian Minister for Trade should have taken place with all Members, or this has also begun. I believe that it is necessary and also important to discuss with the colleague from Canada – but that is the case. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Kogler.]] With regard to Mr Kogler's disappointment that there is now no Vice-Cancellor Mitterlehner, I must say: That depends on who you ask. If he wanted to see Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner, he could and should have sent the request to him – but that doesn't matter in itself, because it's about the content. Let's get to the content. First point: The big question behind the CETA and TTIP debates is indeed: How do we want to shape globalisation in the future? – There are two approaches that go in opposite directions. One is that, as Joseph Stiglitz describes him: The companies are trying to get through the back door, through secretly negotiated trade agreements, which they cannot achieve in the open political process. – This is the impression that is becoming more sustainable at CETA and TTIP. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] On the other hand, we also need to know: A return to the pure nation state does not go either – we need an advanced trade agenda that includes human rights, environmental rights, workers' rights and all these things. This makes us the difference between CETA and TTIP. TTIP makes it clear: The US side is running for liberalisation as well as others. At CETA, on the other hand, I often have the impression that some European positions – critical positions, just as we have mostly here in Parliament – and Canadian positions are much closer together than what European chief negotiators represent in the form of the European Commission. Sometimes, if you want to, I have the impression – to quote a film – that the enemy is acting in his own bed and that the European Commission is also trying to bring its liberalisation agenda into this debate. What are the critical points regarding CETA? – On the one hand, the ICS, a further development of ISDS, with two questions still raised, first of all: Do we need such mechanisms at all? Secondly, If we want to deal with fair rules, we do not need an international jurisdiction that does not undermine the national states. And there is still the question of whether these agreements meet these requirements. So far, I believe, the criticism and scepticism are justified. The second point concerns the “right to regulation”. Is it certain that national decisions on environmental standards, policy lines, further developments, social standards cannot really be undermined by the back door? – There is also legitimate skepticism, and what we have heard so far does not clear this doubt. Third point: Social and environmental standards, precautionary principle. The core labour standards of the International Labour Organisation, the ILO standards, are all mentioned, but not as indictable as the profits or lost profits of companies. For me, this is not a level playing field, as it is called in the financial world, between employee interests and investor interests, and I am therefore very skeptical about that. Another point is the provision of services. What we call public services, whether it be health, education, childcare, waste disposal, sports, social housing, all these things must be protected, and it must be clearly protected. Unfortunately, I can't discover that in the text until today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is the Austrian position now? – I think it’s pretty easy for us as a National Council: We have here decided on motions for resolutions to clarify: These standards must not be eroded and political standards must not be eroded. By the way, the heads of state in their conference see this as well as we do. And we will measure this agreement by these criteria. It's very easy: If anything else changes fundamentally, then you can discuss whether you agree if nothing changes, then I think it is a bad agreement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] This is the position that the Austrian government will hold on to, because the resolution has just passed that on to the government. I believe that the debate is starting so really now, because we need to discuss content, because we need to discuss carefully, because we have to act on the side of workers' rights, on the side of environmental rights, on the side of the political rights of the national states. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] You don't have to fear anything either: If the agreement is critically assessed and this criticism is justified, one will be able to argue through to the end.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11608	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11630	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have recently had a large survey on CETA, since we have been able to follow that some experts have expressed views that CETA sees critically, but other experts have also said that this agreement is good. German Minister for Economic Affairs Sigmar Gabriel said only yesterday: “Ceta is a real quantum leap towards all the bad agreements we have decided.” – We have decided all the agreements here in the house, and now we are making a quantum leap with this agreement – you have to say quite honestly, there I ask the question what this discussion is about here. [[Call at the FPÖ: That's why the SPD in Germany has 19 percent!]] Especially Austria as a small country, where 60 percent are earned in export, where every second job is directly or indirectly dependent on export, needs trade agreements. The Secretary of State also said: Global trade is important, and it should benefit everyone – it is true that it benefits businesses and benefits workers. I think that is an essential point of this agreement. If you say now, we'll renegotiate this: CETA's done negotiating, that's reality, we all know! Since 2009 CETA has been negotiated and is one of the best-negotiated agreements. I think we can't tie up any more capitals now. All those involved have been involved in these negotiations, including the economy, we have taken our positions and have taken into account these in this agreement. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] CETA provides for the abolition of duties for 99 percent of the goods, that is, a real relief for both sides. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What is the current rate of duty?]] The Secretary of State has also said – I can quote her – that Austria and Canada and the EU and Canada have a lot of links. I think we should definitely make sure that we bring this agreement to a good conclusion. The investment protection was renegotiated on the basis of many nations, but especially by Sigmar Gabriel, in 2014. At that time, substantial parts of the new approach of a bilateral investment court developed by the European Commission were anchored. This includes, inter alia, the appeal body, publicly appointed judges and an explicit anchoring of the law of the States to be able to make regulations at its own discretion. You must not forget one thing either: Austria has already concluded 60 investment protection agreements. [[Abg. Kogler: These are others!]] If everyone says that CETA is one of the best-negotiated agreements, then we should make sure that, as Austria, we also retain our credibility in the EU, because that is also a very essential point. The Austrian Government has so far spoken a single language. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs State Secretary, if you could perhaps extend to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: With all due respect for party surveys – but I do not think it can be said that 7.5 percent of SPÖ members, i.e. 14 000 people, decide on an agreement between the EU and Canada, which has been negotiated in detail for seven years since 2009. It's about Europe's location and it's about Austria's economic location. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Ask your members once!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes eh!]] Hannes Androsch – he's not quite strange to you, I mean – said: “If of 8.6 million inhabitants only 200,000 (the SPÖ members, note) This is not a serious quorum. And if of these 200,000 are only 14,000 against CETA, then 186,000 are for it.” – So you can see it from another side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I would like to put another quote: "Without free trade, it will not be possible. It would mean that we were shot off, similar to in the interwar and post-war times. At that time, there was poverty and hunger. A small country such as Austria needs access to the markets and needs open borders. And not the Schrebergartenwirtschaft, with which we have held ourselves more badly than right over water in earlier times. The prosperity we have today, we can no longer afford.” – Ladies and gentlemen, this is also from Hannes Androsch. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I think CETA is a great opportunity, and we should stay on the path that the government has taken so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11757	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11778	Thank you, Madam President. – [[Call the FPÖ:It's going on now!]] Let's go! I am somewhat surprised that after seven years the SPÖ has come up with the idea of renegotiating things, I will give my colleague Peter Haubner all the way through. These things have been being negotiated since 2009, the SPÖ's position has been that CETA and TTIP are basically good for a long time. There have been light, cautious remarks that this may not be so optimal with the arbitration courts, but in principle the SPÖ's signal for many years – until the German Chancellor's core has just come – that the SPÖ is quite agreeing to these two agreements. Unfortunately, the German Chancellor's core is not here, nor is Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner, who would now be the people here, the question is – and I also give the previous speakers the right: What is now the line of the Federal Government? [[Abg. Kogler: That was the real question!]] I don't see a line from the Federal Government, I don't see it, I actually see diametrically different approaches. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The ÖVP, at least the leadership of the ÖVP – with the ÖVP-near small and medium-sized companies it probably looks different – but at least the leadership of the ÖVP is unconditional and unconditional for CETA and TTIP. The SPÖ has made a clear swing in recent months under the core. If I do, there are some things she cannot do about, especially the arbitration courts. For years now, a clear position has been represented by the Freedom Party: We have said from the outset that, on the one hand, we need to critically and precisely analyse these free trade agreements and, on the other hand, we must not only consider the supposed benefits, but also take note of the potential risks – which are always hidden – which are very likely to occur. If we hear from the survey that only 1 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises are currently exporting to the US, then I have to go into the calculation that for the remaining 99 percent, this market opening will result in very likely disadvantages and occur. This is completely hidden by the ÖVP. Once again to the government: As I said, I am confused about the government's position, not just with regard to CETA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] – I try to understand this and strict myself with all my intellectual competence available to me, but I am still confused. [[Abg. Wöginger: We've had this for a long time!]] I'll also explain why. CETA and TTIP are a matter in which core, in fact, diametrically says the opposite of what the ÖVP gives of itself. In economic policy, we now have to promote public investment – please, you know just as I know that this is nothing but new, extensive debt. This is not really in keeping with your line of expenditure savings. I also do not believe that the machine tax, the property tax and similar suggestions with your access – even with ours! – agree. [[Abg. Katzian: Application address?]] The last sign concerns the change in the trade order, where we know that, in addition to all the useful things that are happening, it actually leads to a clear reduction in revenue in the Chambers of Commerce. This is not particularly friendly now by the Federal Chancellor towards the coalition partner. [[Abg. Wöginger: Is this a mediation?]] – No, but maybe I could explain to you a little bit now why I’m confused. Finally, one thing: This new government is launched with a statement by Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner – after the “New Deal” of Kern, of which we do not see anything today. Please, the government has been in office for 120 days, look at the agenda of today's plenary session, which is an admission of nothingness, that thin! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I wonder what happened the last 120 days. Usually, new Heads of Government are given 100 days, and this time has already been exceeded. Today's agenda: not a single bill, you can see from the correction of the electoral debacle. So I quote Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: “I heard the speech” – the speech of Kerns – “. I want our side to be too, and when we deal with the problems together, we should have the right and the reality linked. Good cooperation – we are dealing with the matter.” – Right and reality, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11886	The next item is Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11920	Mrs. State Secretary! Madam President. I heard at 9 a.m. today that the chancellor is represented by Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner, I have now noted that he will continue to be represented by the Secretary of State – be it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] It would have been wise to come here to Parliament. Why? – Because it is obvious – and in fact proved – that there is no common, coordinated position of the Federal Government, and not one of the SPÖ and ÖVP political groups. Ladies and gentlemen, there is, however, a common position of our National Council, the Federal Council, the heads of state. One of these is present, and I would like to say that the Austrian population is not stupid either, which also looks closely at: What has been said, who said what, and then how is it decided? I would like to take up one thing: Mrs State Secretary, you have clearly said – I have listened carefully – before this agreement can be signed, there is still a need for substantial changes. I share this view – but that means concrete follow-up negotiations, which does not specifically mean a signing roadmap with 27 or 28. October, and we should be clear about this today: It's indistinct! The task of the Minister for Economic Affairs is to clarify this at European level too. Please ensure that this information from the National Council goes to Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner in good time, so that things are not presented differently afterwards than they are actually. I would also like to say one thing, because here again and again it is said that critical arguments are now coming to the conclusion: Yes, at TTIP it was exactly the other way round! Everyone says that there is no final assessment, nothing to say, because there is no text yet. Now it is CETA, we have our critical arguments, we are bringing them in, and we also want these arguments to be properly assessed, evaluated and integrated by the population, NGOs, trade unions. This is now the requirement that exists. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Haubner mentioned that the survey took place. – Yes, after much, much pressure from the citizens’ initiative, just carried by the various NGOs, and with the support here in the house we have created them. If you've been listening to the experts, you've really listened, it's been very exciting. I'd like to quote a few things here. Dr. Raza of the Austrian Research Foundation for International Development has carried out: “One has to say quite clearly that trade agreements of the new generation, such as TTIP, but also CETA, are not trade agreements in the traditional sense, but in the core regulatory agreements.” Ladies and gentlemen, he has quoted Paul Krugman, who has formulated similar internationally. This is about disciplining national regulations, which may be about disciplining social and environmental standards implemented by individual national states, individual regions. I was particularly disappointed with this survey by Mr Mitterlehner, because what did he say there? – I quote literally from the provisional protocol “This is why SMEs in particular benefit and, of course, agriculture benefits from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] Why agriculture? – Because products such as wine, food et cetera, when they are in favour of customs, find a completely different market. Also, don’t say that we don’t need to, because I’m looking at the surpluses of our agriculture!” – says the Minister of Economic Affairs. There I am waiting for the farmers to cry out in this respect and in practice. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: It's suspiciously quiet at the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP, ask your members once, ask the farmers what they think of this statement when we import tariff quotas – 50 000 tonnes of beef, 75 000 tonnes of pigmeat, 100 000 tonnes of wheat – in addition duty-free! This is not an announcement for agriculture, which has really extreme problems and difficulties anyway! What was also significant: Professor Breuss of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research has clearly said that Canada is opening up to a larger market, and as always, when a country opens up to a larger market, it gains more, i.e. Canada. – These are very clear statements: Canada will benefit more. Now to the arbitration courts: These are by-constitutions, please, which is a sub-constitutional court which is introduced here. After all, only privileged companies and corporations have access to this, but not citizens, that is already to be held firm and clear. Read, as said, the documents of the survey, and you will notice that the experts are very concerned. – Therefore: Back to the start! We need to renegotiate, and for this we will continue to make massive efforts in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e11977	Before I give the floor to you, Mr Schellhorn, I would like to warmly welcome the Canadian Minister for International Trade, Mrs Freeland. [[General condolences.]] It will follow our debate for a few minutes and then go into a debate with Members of the House. Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12007	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs State Secretary! You mentioned earlier, it is a common line, an agreed opinion. However, this is also an information deficit. I am quite right for Mr Kogler to say that there is total responsibility here, because you have informed the citizens much too late about what it is all about. It is sheer populist responsibility to be against CETA. This means being against growth, against job security and against securing prosperity. We should be quite clear where this is going. I do not understand colleagues Pirklhuber when he says 60,000 tonnes of beef come to us – or 50,000 does not matter. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: 50,000 I said!]] – They come to Europe, not Austria, you have forgotten! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: I said import...!]] It starts once, with the honest and clear titulation, where it goes. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] These 50,000 are 0.6 percent of the total EU volume, and if you come here with regionality – my dear Mr Pirklhuber, we have an opinion anyway – I believe that you are just always running a fright. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, exactly!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] There is a great opportunity for farmers to specialize – all experts say that this is the best negotiated agreement – and thus continue to do so. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Ask the farmers!]] This is the opportunity for farmers not to hang on the drop of Mr Rupprechter, not to hang on to the support drop, but to make specialization. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You must first explain to the farmer how this should work!]] This is a classic example of how it is about regionalisation and how it should come about that we are entering the general competition. And the farmers can also do it, the good farmers can do it today, and they don't even need CETA, but CETA would massively increase their opportunities. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Do you know what the average farmers in Canada have?]] Now to the open society of which the Secretary of State spoke and to the relevant rules of play that were negotiated. She said: You need fairness, you need fairness with the tax burden. I'll give you all right. This is a European issue and not a subject between Europe and Canada. How do you get on it? What we need and what you should write on the forehead is fairness to the citizens. They are now committing to the citizens something that should be renegotiated here. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] How and where and what? One cannot renegotiate, CETA is negotiating, and there should be a clear opinion on the fact that this CETA agreement is finally ratified, finally signed and can finally enter into force. Everything else is against growth, against job security, against security of prosperity, that should be clear to us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Where's that?]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: You were not on the survey! You have no idea!]] When it comes to this, you can also re-thematize the iPhone that German Chancellor Core has quoted: Where does the iPhone come from? How is it done? How many customs is it burdened? Where's it going? In particular, we should give small and medium-sized enterprises the chance to achieve more by removing barriers. We should give them the freedom to do business with whom they wish. And above all, we should think about the customer's own responsibility. Now I come back to agriculture, to the great fear of the chlorchin. Jürgen Trittin, a family colleague of yours, said he didn't know what was smarter to give the antibiotic to the chicken before or to dive the chicken into chlorine afterwards. – If it were your logic, the organic chicken would have served in the supermarket today and it would only buy more cheap goods. [[Abg. Steinbichler: This is an infame, Mr Cot! Unheard of what you say! Open your eyes!]] We believe in the self-responsibility and the power of the citizen, we believe in it, and we should actually think of it. It is your responsibility to speak for the economy, for jobs and for security of prosperity, and that is why the CETA Agreement should not enter into force only in October, but in fact already tomorrow. That's the jumping point! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12195	Next speaker: Mrs Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12216	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We had a survey last week on CETA and TTIP, and all those fellow Members who were there – if they take the critical opinion of many experts seriously – cannot make themselves here and agree to this trade agreement without When and But. Ladies and gentlemen, globalisation is good, but it is not the panacea. Globalisation without a framework brings many, many losers of globalisation, and these losers of globalisation have responded with the yes to Brexit. That is why it is more than right to deal responsibly with agreements that do not only relate to trade, which, according to experts, have the objective of creating uniform standards, uniform regulations. Brexit is a sign that confidence in the European Union has been lost. On the other hand, the European Union's response is that it continues to negotiate in the silent chamber, without seriously taking the concerns and fears of the population seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, our criticism refers in particular to the fact that this is not a trade at all. The core labour standards alone are not implemented by Canada, which is also a reason. Even the chairman of the Canadian Trade Union Confederation, Hassan Yussuff, sees this agreement very critically and says its employees are not protected. This would have to be even more true of our work, and I would ask myself: Where is the critical voice represented by the workers in the ÖAAB? It can't be that only policy for large companies, for large companies, and the small structures remain on the line. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Promises that there will be economic growth have also existed before the enlargement of the EU – we can all remember – as there has been such a gold tomb. In retrospect, there are many companies that have paid for it, which have even done well because of the enlargement of the EU and because of the false promises. That is why, I believe, we should be more careful about our responsibilities to the citizens. There are different studies, for example from the US University of Tufts, which says that the EU will lose 200 000 jobs by 2023 alone due to CETA. In Canada, 30 000 jobs will be lost. However, there are also studies by the Commission that want to be positive, which say that the EU will benefit from an economic growth of 0.08 percent, Canada of 0.76 percent. – So very, very low values. Ladies and gentlemen, CETA is a Parliamentary disarmament. It is a living agreement in which a committee in the silent chamber can continue to flourish, how to amend Annexes and Protocols. That is, if we decide something today, we do not know what will be in this agreement tomorrow and the day after. – That’s why our very critical attitude. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Very right!]] To the SPÖ: It is quite surprising if the one holding the vote among the members does not even know what CETA is in the “ZiB 3”. – So much for the credibility of this government party. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] I'm curious about what the New Deal of Chancellor Core means. Is the New Deal perhaps that a clear no of the population to CETA, a clear no in the vote of your party colleagues is transformed into a “yes, but”? Is that the New Deal? I am already pleased to see how the party members will be happy about the decision of the Federal Chancellor. So much to his credibility, so much to what he has brought new style into this country's commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12265	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I thank the Secretary of State. [[15:52:20]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12289	I shall now resume the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12313	Thank you, Madam President. I can continue my speech: How did these massive shortcomings in the federal accounting system actually have a quantitative effect? – The Court of Auditors As a result of the examination, fault fixes to the extent of inconceivable 3,919 million €. – Nearly €4 billion Errors in the federal accounting system. I don't think there's anything to add to it. Especially embarrassing for the reputation of the federal government is the Court of Auditors' finding that the Federal Ministries and the Supreme Institutions do not comply with the payment targets set out in the invoices. This immense process of the ministries can put many companies in financial distress. One has to imagine the opposite case: If an entrepreneur does not pay his or her taxes and social security contributions on time, it will not be long before the manager is sent to the supervisor or even an insolvency order is filed. Or think of the construction contractor from Upper Austria, who has filed for an employee 11 minutes too late and has therefore received an advertisement from the financial police. [[Abg. Christ: Because he was a repeater!]] 2 180 € Punishment was the result of this ad, and in second instance the penalty was then reduced to still very high 1 090 €. Here too, the following must apply: What the Confederation requires of the Entrepreneurs must apply to the League to at least the same extent. The immense sluttings in the accounting of the ministries must finally have an end!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12353	The President of the Court of Auditors is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12374	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Last week I had my first parliamentary appointments and duties in the Court of Auditors and in the Budget Committee. I would like to thank all of you very much for the positive inclusion and for the extremely constructive basis for discussion in both committees. It is extremely important to me, and I can assure you this, ladies and gentlemen, to maintain an intensive and permanent contact with you in the interests of control, because the Court of Auditors can only ultimately be effective together with the National Council. Recommendations of the Court of Auditors can only be made by you with the necessary political responsibility. As Austria will stand in the future, – and this is my real conviction – depends on an objective cooperation of all the institutions in Austria and, of course, to some extent also on a well-functioning control. I am therefore pleased to speak today for the first time in my capacity as President of the Court of Auditors in the plenary session of the National Council and thus before the entire National Council. Before I come to the actual item on the agenda – the 2015 financial statements – I would like to make a few fundamental comments from the Court of Auditors' point of view and hope that this will be allowed here. Success through control, I call the message for the work of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has the most important control function in the field of financial control, and control is inseparable from democracy, so it is that which you represent as elected Members. Control strengthens public confidence, something that citizens, I think, need increasingly. I also think that it is time for people, with all their criticisms, to be able to return to positive future views. Ladies and gentlemen, an independent control body such as the Court of Auditors therefore needs a clear strategic approach if it wants to be effective and if it wants to benefit the general state. Finally, the word ‘revision’ refers to ‘vision’, and the strategic objectives of auditing are therefore the careful use of fiscal resources and the sustainability of public finances. The Court of Auditors shall ensure accountability and transparency, it shall be responsible for the urgent need for reform, it shall ensure the quality of public performance, and shall create confidence among citizens through objective and objective audit work. All these strategic objectives are also pursued by the federal accounts. With 42 percent, the Court of Auditors leads the confidence index. The Court of Auditors is therefore a role model institution and is to be built on this foundation. However, I personally want to put the focus on implementation in the future. Therefore, it is about success through control. Control only succeeds when the proposals are dealt with, heard and implemented. Control is not self-evident, but it also shows opportunities and, accordingly, the Court of Auditors consistently opposes the need for reform and calls for a reform ruck without delay. The political decision is, of course, not the Court of Auditors, but always the Parliament and the revised governments – the federal government and the countries. I therefore ask you and call on you to take up the opportunities and opportunities that the Court of Auditors shows in its reports and recommendations. However, I have found here a situation with which I cannot be entirely satisfied as President of the Court of Auditors: At present, more than 70 reports or audit results of the Court of Auditors have not yet been dealt with by the National Council. This is a weakness and is not in my opinion consistent with the purpose of the Court of Auditors' work. The printed not only prints beautiful reports, but shows mistakes and abuses and is obliged to the taxpayer. Court of Auditors reports are intended to help improve the public system and should therefore be dealt with here in Parliament in a timely manner. I think and I am confident that in my term of office we will hopefully find a good working mode. I'm coming to the federal accounts now. I can only say to the 2015 Federal Accounting Statement that in a two-hour meeting last week we have already discussed intensively and in time the contents of the Federal Accounting Board, and it is now on the agenda. In line with the new legal situation due to the BHG-Novelle in the previous year, the Federal Accounts were already presented at the end of June, i.e. three months earlier. President Dr. Moser thus left me with the federal accounts for the year 2015 for further parliamentary treatment. This earlier presentation of the federal accounts is timely – for which we are also very grateful to the legislator – and is suitable as a well-founded basis for the budget creation of the coming year. Therefore, based on this analysis of the status quo, a budget can be better planned. The implementation of the last year is as detailed in the financial statements as the budgetary challenges, and there are also numerous proposals for action. The federal accounts are therefore an extensive and detailed work, and I would just like to briefly outline some key statements at this point. The essential parameters of the accounts show a negative picture. The net financial balance, i.e. the cash deficit, amounted to minus €1.9 billion. The net result fell significantly worse at minus €4.8 billion by €2.9 billion. I now want to compare the net result and net financing balance. In the financial statement one sees the financial flow of a financial year, payments versus payments, in the earnings account one sees the economic situation of the federal government, the consumption of resources or, at least, the increase in resources. Budgetary bug waves will be visible through the shift of payment commitments into the future. Thus, the earnings account provides financial warning signals that are not apparent in the financial statement, e.g. through exposure depreciations, depreciations and provisions. In order to plan Austrian state finances permanently – and this is the urgent recommendation of the Court of Auditors – the findings from the earnings budget must be taken into account. Only in this way can it be ensured that the real economic conditions are included in the budget planning. The basis for this is the new budgetary law. The Court of Auditors therefore recommends that budgetary policy takes and uses the existing budgetary discipline and monitoring instruments, the financial statement, the medium-term planning and the stability objectives seriously to reverse the negative trend. And, of course, we have talked in the Committee about the quality of the statement of results. Consensus was that there were, of course, still problems, especially with regard to the time-consuming booking. However, the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Schelling announced measures to resolve errors, such as training in the departments. The Court of Auditors welcomes this. I can also tell you that on our part we are planning a functional check on the quality of the calculation of the results and that we are already starting to do so. This will be published within the framework of the next year's federal accounts. I am sure that, with our audit findings, we can help to draw up action-oriented recommendations in order to jointly raise the quality of the statement of results. What are the central data of this numbering work? – The assets of €88.2 billion in 2015 amounted to €441.5 billion. Foreign funds increased by €5.8 billion compared with 2014. The federal government's financial debt in 2015 amounted to 199,1 billion euros. The negative net assets in 2015 already amounted to minus € 153.4 billion, thus further worsening by 3.4 percent. This means that the State's assets are getting smaller each year. This trend must be stopped. As a general rule, according to Maastricht-ESVG, the public deficit in 2015 was minus 1.2 percent of GDP and minus €3.9 billion respectively. The structural balance was balanced. The government's government debt continued to rise to minus €290.7 billion. As a result, the debt ratio at the end of 2015 was 86.2 percent of GDP and thus significantly above the 60 percent reference mark foreseen by Maastricht. With regard to the risks of medium-term budgetary development, the Court of Auditors complains that the documents published by the Federal Government so far do not show an comprehensible overall financial presentation that illustrates how and by what measures the structurally balanced budget should be achieved from 2018 onwards. The Court of Auditors considers that we need scope for action for new tasks and challenges, such as the increase in age-dependent expenditure, migration, new social tasks arising from the Integration, all day care and the labour market. For this reason, the Court of Auditors sees an urgent need for action to improve the existing financial situation of the Federal Government and therefore strongly points to the structural reforms that the Court of Auditors repeatedly calls for, which are also included in the 2015 accounts. The areas of education, pensions, health, social affairs, research and promotion are mentioned. With these recommendations, the Court of Auditors is not alone. The recommendations of the European Council, the European Commission, the Fiscal Council and the IMF are in line with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. I would also like to take a brief look at the much debated results of the final audits. The Court of Auditors is obliged to examine the regularity of one year's accounts, which is called the auditing of the staff, and to carry out functional checks. It examines whether internal control systems fit into key areas of budgetary adjustment. We have carried out functional tests in three areas. When we examined the regularity of the evidence, we found that in almost all the divisions of the federal government there were shortcomings in the budget calculation. 49.8 percent of the verified evidence showed a formal defect. And we made this visible at the level of the sub-divisions and also revealed the nature of the dispute. What I want to add: We have tested 1 449 evidence sampled. 49.8 percent included formal defects, but only 60 out of the 1,449 evidence showed a total defect. The resorts now know where the problems lie and can work specifically on improving them. It is about non-obligos, non-compliance with payment targets, non-prevention of the verification of factual and mathematical correctness, incorrect allocation of accounts. The shortcomings in budgeting have already been addressed. Several departments have not complied with the principle of faithful presentation of the federal financial situation in budgeting. This covered the subject of political relations in some areas where this was not sufficiently budgeted, services related to the remuneration of the national teachers and payments for the remuneration in the science and rental sector. Against the background that now the budget creation for the year 2017 is on high-speed tours, you can and should benefit from these findings. Finally, I may be able to address the analysis of the budgetary service on the role of the Court of Auditors in the preparation of the accounts. I thank the budget service for the well-founded analysis. I know that many Members of the House are concerned about the role and responsibilities between the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors in the federal accounts. However, I would like to say that the Court of Auditors is under constitutional obligation to write the accounts. In the case of audits of the accounts, it applies international standards, which are also required in the BHG accordingly. However, a clear distribution of roles between drawing up and auditing the accounts is also beneficial from the Court's point of view. In this regard, there is room for discussion on how this Austrian solution should and can be further developed in the preparation of the federal accounts, which has grown historically. The decision to do so lies with you as a constitutional legislator. The Court of Auditors is open to any further development that serves the matter. High house! I am convinced that, even under my authority, a good climate of cooperation between the National Council and the Rech- The Court of Justice has always been able to continue. I am also willing to expand this cooperation. The Federal Accounting Office provides you with comprehensive information on all the policies of the Federal Government. I think you can use this information beyond today's debate and decision-making for your political analysis. I should also like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors, who put a lot of work into the constitution of the federal accounts. I would like to thank you for your interest in the work of the Court of Auditors and ask you, together with the Court of Auditors, to continue to pay attention to the state's future capacity. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12506	Next, Mr Magistrate. Big deal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12527	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! It is nice that we are discussing the financial statements separately today and do not do so in connection with the budget creation. It's new. It is nice that we can discuss an extensive work consisting of four reports: the financial statement, the income situation, the wealth situation and the much discussed special report. It is therefore important and therefore beautiful because this billing is the basis for many decisions we are making, and this should not be washed up with the current budget. What do we find out about this billing? – On the one hand, we had a very difficult environment. We had a lower economic growth, we had more unemployed, we had the refugee flows. On the other hand, we also had some goodies. The goodies are the interest rate landscape, the low inflation and other aspects. We have also addressed these good aspects, and we see that through the tax reform there have been preferential effects and we have therefore taken more and had higher inflows than planned. But we also see that the other goodies, the low interest rates and the low inflation have already been spent again. This means that expenditure has hardly decreased, as we have had more expenditure in the area of unemployment, the labour market and in many other areas. In the asset comparison account, we see very precisely that on the one hand it was really budgeted positively – commercially cautiously – and that is good, because only in this way can we fulfil all payment obligations, on the other hand, we see in the report on the findings that our goal not only to have a camera list has not yet been fully realized. In this regard, we are called upon to offer our support to our members of the Government, together with the Court of Auditors, for we want to understand the income situation and the wealth situation carefully. And why do we want to know this yield? – This yield situation shows the sustainability of policy, and unfortunately it has not improved. Although we achieved a huge improvement compared to the previous year in relation to the budget, we still had to determine the use of resources and resources. Based on the wealth status, we see what has happened so far. The President has already said that we are almost €154 billion more liabilities than assets. What lessons, then, must we draw from it? – On the one hand, we see that the budgeting is in business order and fits so, on the other, we see that sustainable reforms need to be addressed. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, please!]] We need to talk about the big positions: in the social area, in the pension area, in the double promotion area, wherever we look. In the case of payments, we also need to ensure that they are activated or written down or – even worse – to produce further expenditure in the future. In order to bring about a change in the trend, I think we need to invest mainly in the private economy, because any creation of a private job that we support creates future revenue and improves our results. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But above all we need to invest in the mood in the economy and in consumers. It is a matter of mediating that we believe in this country that we can continue to work here, scratch the sleeves together and carry on a little bit. This mood investment is probably not included in this budget: This would be a flexibilization of working time, a reduction in the amount of luggage taxes and improvements in labour law. We must start on these issues in order to bring the budget together in the long term. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Should this do the opposition? You're in government!]] That would be the possibility: by building up long-term budget assets for our Austria. Our citizens expect budget recovery from us by reducing the tax rate and more investment in the economy. Our citizens will be more involved if some position is deleted. We believe in our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12589	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12610	Madam President. Madam President, Dr. Kraker! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Groiß! It is also an investment in the mood when there are provisions in the government programme that say that precisely these proposals for reform are actually being implemented. The President-in-Office of the Council also spoke in the Committee on Budgets about the lack of reform, and these must finally be overcome. That's how I remember it, and that's exactly how it is. Of course, this is about the careful, efficient handling of taxpayers' money. At the same time, it is also about actually implementing the reforms that have been announced. And I'll stay right there with an area that'll please you now. This is the theme of the one-stop shops for plant permits. The Government Programme 2013 to 2018 states that the bureaucratic obstacles to businesses are to be reduced. What happened? – To this day of 2016, exactly in this area very, very little to nothing has happened. This, of course, is also partly due to the problems we have in the revenue and expenditure structures of the budget. Yes, it would be an investment in the mood to actually implement the announced reforms. The President-in-Office of the Council has today pointed out the shortcomings that have occurred during the test. You have to make this clear: Any second evidence was de facto lacking in the examination. And that's not the way it's going to be. That's where it's going to be. It is a question of making a clear ship, checking it and doing it properly. After all, it is not only about the correctness of the figures, it is not only about complying with the payment targets, which is of great importance for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also about transparency. That is exactly what we need in this budget. I'm returning to the reforms. Her predecessor, Dr. Moser, ended his period with 1,007 recommendations for a sustainable development of Austria. There are several areas mentioned here, for example in the field of research. And we know that today's research will create tomorrow's jobs. It is therefore particularly important to take steps as structured and efficient as possible. There are, as has been said, various areas mentioned. This begins with the evaluation of the research premium. It is noted that tax benefits should be monitored regularly for their effectiveness. This is something that has been asleep for years; and we will see what the current project really brings. It is also noted here that it is to be examined whether country funding is actually implemented efficiently in this form or whether it would be possible to deal with these funds through federal institutions – a very central point. Of course, monitoring of the research rate and the impact indicators is also maintained. Because only if you actually check regularly, do monitoring and a corresponding follow-up test will you be able to address the problems consistently and find appropriate solutions. Of course, this is also about increased cooperation regardless of the local authorities – and I see the Minister of Education out of service in particular: [[in the direction of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] This small-scale thinking in the countries and so on, of course, poses problems especially in these future-oriented areas – as it is in education, but also in research. The reform proposals are on the table. The question is: How consistently is this addressed? . I believe that the debate on the 2015 Federal Accounts clearly shows the need for action. It shows how important it is to take appropriate reform steps and implement them in this follow-up. For your work, Madam President, I wish you endurance, courage and, of course, the necessary farsightedness. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12672	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12693	Women's President! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, I would like to highlight the issue of pensions, because it is very interesting that, after this proposal, which we have already discussed in the Committee, we have found that the state grant, the state grant, is ultimately €471 million lower. This is interesting in so far as we are constantly told by the various places – and also some Ladies and gentlemen in this round are saying this again and again – that the grant will be higher from month to month, that pensions can no longer be financed. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the history of this issue, it was with regard to the financing of pensions in all areas and, above all, in the ASVG area, as far as the workers are concerned, Usus that Members pay a third of their own, one third of the employers are paid and the remaining third is granted state aid. The fact is that the state grant in the ASVG sector is now only more than 18 percent, and 82 percent of the pensions are paid by the ASVG insured persons themselves. It's a bit different for the businessmen, because the state pays 49 percent for it. And to mention all the groups: It is a bit more extreme for farmers, as the state pays almost 80 percent for it. However, the group concerned pays as said 82 percent for the workers themselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Therefore, a clear word to those who always think that financing is not safe. Look at the numbers! Then, I hope, there will be a different opinion here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the age of arrival: Here we feel and now also see in the report that the measures adopted by the Federal Government are taking place and that the objectives agreed and written for 2018 have already been achieved in September 2016. I've been looking at the NEOS homepage. Mr. Loacker! Of you there are some interesting contributions, including those of 21. ==References====External links== I quote literally: “According to government plans, which are considered unattainable not only by NEOS, but also by the Court of Auditors, Pension Insurance Commission and Parliamentary Budget Service, the actual retirement age is expected to rise from 58.4 to 60.1 years by 2018.” – You think impossible, unattainable. Today we have the 21st. September. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] – Mr Loacker, we have not only reached the 60 years, but we are now even a few months above that. Today we have the average age of entry of 60 years and three months. I therefore believe that it is appropriate for Mr Loacker to look at the facts more closely and then to say something. [[Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak.]] I ask you to stop the constant uncertainty. Let us not be insecure to people who work hard for 40, 45 years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12772	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12794	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! I am in a happy situation to speak on behalf of my colleague Mr Schopf, which is good because a few elements of historiography belong there. On the one hand, if you quote articles from 2014 to take into account the statistical galery, namely, around the calculation of invalidity and incapacity pensions below 50, which the Social Ministry has achieved there. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Now you just figured out the people. [[Abg. Kirchgatterer: Are you accusing the Social Ministry of Gaunery, Mr. Loacker?]] And by this factor alone, the statistical retirement age increases above 60. That's why no man worked a day longer than before. It's a purely statistical trick. But you know that. You don't need to show the learning effects of your union school on the stage, you know that well enough yourself. Let's stick to the facts! If it says, oh, in pension insurance we need less subsidies than we had previously assumed: There are other factors, of course. For example, today I have received a request answer, including from the Ministry of Social Affairs, with which such a statistical trick is revealed: The higher unemployment also increases the contributions of the part-insurers to pension insurance, says what the AMS sends to pension insurance, and this is €300 million higher than it was foreseen in the Federal Proposal. And just as you clear the FLAF through the partial insurance, 100 million € will come to pension insurance, than was foreseen in the Federal Estimate. On the other hand, the fact that unemployment insurance lacks the money to pursue active labour market policies is a fact that trade unionists around Mr Schopf and Mr Katzian would like to hide. But there's no trick in counting the pension hole in a little way. Let's go to the billing. This is the German Federal Government's declaration of bankruptcy. On and on, it is famous that we have a structural zero deficit. What does “structural zero deficit” mean? – That it is not a zero deficit. There you go and push out expenditure items for so long, until there is a zero deficit. A private budget would mean: A family has expenses for living, for eating, for clothing, for a car, for everything possible, and there comes a salary or maybe two salaries come in. If the car has a motor damage, I just don't count it among the expenses, because that's not structural. So the family has a structural zero deficit despite engine damage in the car. A family also has to pay for the car, but the state expects it to be nice, and says: It's nothing anyway. We always have some excuse for not counting expenditure. What we have is a high tax rate in the international comparison. The taxpayers are expressed as the lemons. They no longer know how they can come to prosperity at all through work, and at the same time the debt level reaches new peaks. Now you can look at how the other countries do: Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands use the low interest rate period to reduce debt and debt ratios. Now the ECB has artificially kept interest rates low because the whole Member States are so footmarod. This would actually be intended to repay the debts and then march with light luggage into the future. Some can, but we can't. We have top taxes, we have top debts. Actually, in its first half-time, the government has now made the absolute failure hattrick: Top debt, top unemployment and top tax rate – yes, worse it is not at all! Now, when you come back to the comic, I call it – under quotations – “tax reform”, the counter-financing, i.e. in the left-hand pocket-right account, which has been too optimistically adopted by taxpayers, it will not go out. They have made the revenue too optimistic. Next year we will be standing here again and will find that Austria has fallen back in international comparison. While other countries are developing better, reducing tax rates, reducing debt rates, we will again have a top tax rate – the Austrians are now paying more taxes than Sweden – and here again debate a poverty certificate called federal accounts. It's really sad.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12841	Next come Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12863	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Dear colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers! We've heard a lot about the federal accounts today. I would like to congratulate the President on her good understanding, to continue to wish us much success and wish that we could hear as much as possible. Among other things, we have heard that our debt rose to 86.2 percent of GDP. Of course, that's way too high. But in order to reduce indebtedness, we must not even think of raising even a single tax – the eaty state is already paying more than enough – but at last we really need structural reforms and we have to relieve the economic location. I know these are the usual headlines, so it must finally go to the inside. The biggest cost drivers are known to be pensioners and health care providers. For example, more than every fourth euro of taxation and taxation flows into the pension system. There is an urgent need for reform here, especially in the sense of the younger generations, see Court of Auditors reports. We also need to cut down with the tax and tax rate and, as Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner always dreams correctly, finally reduce the bureaucracy in order to get the economy up and down again. But red tape, no one can hear it anymore, so we finally have to put action. [[Abg. Moser: How long does ÖVP set the Minister of Economic Affairs?]] That is why I suggest that we unravel all our dense calendars of various party events and instead plan business visits, ladies and gentlemen! I know some do this regularly and we are pleased to have some entrepreneurs among us, but it would be good for everyone to cook less in their own party juice and spend more time in the farms. Then we would find out very quickly what the economic location needs. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagen.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] The net investment ratio has broken down by more than 60 percent over the last ten years. This crazy downward trend must be reversed. However, the great healing investor, ladies and gentlemen, must not be the state, otherwise we have even more debt and these can logically only be financed through tax increases. And every call for higher taxes is wrong, because the cow you want to milk must not be killed before. [[Abg. Doppler: Or sell!]] It is not the state that creates job-creating jobs and rinses money in the household, but only the private sector. But if companies are harassed with unnecessary regulations, agents, foreign labour inspectors, high taxes, fees and taxes, they are naturally not motivated to invest here or even hire people. So the solution is certainly no longer a state, but a slim state. We have also seen in history that real socialism went into bankruptcy in 1989, and today we can watch all over the world where debt policy leads, in the worst case to state bankruptcy. Venezuela is the world’s richest poorer house, where food is even used today. Apparently the politicians there are still waiting for the country to get out of the crisis. But you can't consume and consume yourself richly. Economic laws cannot be eroded by ideology. Argentina has only settled debt of 9 billion US dollars in a US hedge fund in April of this year. So it is seen that debt making brings states into the dependence on financial markets, and that is what we want, I believe, not everyone. [[Abg. Lightenecker: This is exciting now!]] As Minister of Finance Schelling always says: The solution can only be loud, finally implementing structural reforms. Let us stick to the Court of Auditors' proposals. All the working people who, by the way, receive the social system will thank us just as much as those who live by the social system, for otherwise it is no longer eligible for funding. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12938	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e12959	Women's President! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Rebaur! I very much appreciate you, but I think you have forgotten that you are now a member of a parliamentary club of a government party. Please say everything you have said to your minister – and it should be implemented urgently, you are perfectly right. [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Hagen.]] To the federal accounts for the year 2015, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: Overall, GDP growth, price stability, employment and current account improved in 2015. Of course, the unemployment rate is very worrying, because unemployment has increased very much during this period. Austria achieved the European Fiscal Goals in 2015 with the exception of the debt ratio, which was significantly above the 60 percent limit at 86.2 percent. We have no good development either as regards federal property, as we have already heard today. On this occasion, I would like to wish the President of the Court of Auditors all the best and good luck. Keep The Court of Auditors is, of course, a basis for control. I would like to wish you all the best for the future. And if you hit the same score as your predecessor Moser, then it's perfectly right, we've heard today about the implementation of various reforms. I think this is quite, very important. As regards the use of funds: I listened exactly when you spoke earlier. It is important that double-tracks are abolished and – also addressed by you – the various sectors such as education, pension, health and, above all, social, research and promotion are addressed. It is also very important, as Mr Nachbaur and I have mentioned, to tackle and implement the long-standing reforms urgently. Mrs Nachbaur, please tell your ministers! I have a little bit of hope, for I have heard that the Minister of Finance has said that the cold progression would already be abolished. I This cold progression is a brake block in every respect. These reforms are necessary in order for Austria to be able to see positive in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13008	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13029	Madam President of the National Council! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! I think that just as we are mostly discussing a federal proposal here and giving it the approval, it would also be nice if we could find more positive words here for a federal billing account than those I have heard in the last speeches. I am almost afraid that there are Members in this House who have never talked to an invalidity pensioner or an invalidity pensioner, why they are referring to such a pension, or to employees who are about to have a disability pension. To use “tricks” and “gaining” as expressions in the context, I consider this group to be extremely disrespectful. I'd like to have said that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] The President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has spoken of a positive vision of the future, which she would like to draw and on which we all have to work together in the House. Because the word'reform' in terms of pensions and the drumherum has been repeatedly taken into the mouth, I think: Let us draw a positive picture of the future here! The reforms of recent years – we have discussed this before, and Mr Schopf has suggested it – clearly show first effects if we spend € 750 million less than was estimated. The full effect will then be seen in the next few years. There were three laws, and I would like to remind you of them once again, which we have decided here in the House, pension reform laws, which now show their effect and reflect themselves very clearly in this federal accounts. It was the budget accompanying law from 2011: You know that the first adjustment of the old age pension takes place only in the second calendar year, there is also an increase in the long-term insurance scheme for women to the 62. Year of life and many other areas more. We have also started to take first steps in the event of disability in 2011. I can't list everything. The repurchasing of school and study periods has been massively expensive. In the Stability Act 2012, the second law I would like to mention, a lot has been put on the table in the corridor board on even more intensive ways of saving. The discount has been increased from 4.2 percent to 5.1 percent, we must not forget. The really big measure I would like to address here has been the reform of the invalidity pension itself. There is not only a duty of participation by the applicant, the applicant, but also, above all, the elimination of temporary invalidity pensions for those born from 1964 onwards. Fortunately, we have also defined the right to medical and professional rehabilitation. Unfortunately, my speaking time is over. It would still be important and important to me to say that without these adjustments we would have had over €2 billion more expenditure on the federal grant. With the adjustments made in recent years, we have achieved €4.3 billion in savings, and through the adjustment of the I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Thanks to all those who have contributed! This is certainly something that would be positive about this financial statement and about future budget projects.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13083	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Loacker to speak. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13108	Mrs A.D. Heinisch-Hosek told me that the ladies and gentlemen who would become incapacity for work or invalidity would be more tricky. [[Abg. Fekter: The ministry has tricked!]] In fact, I have said that the Federal Ministry is tricking statistically by calculating invalidity pensions and incapacity pensions below 50 from the statistics, thus artificially calculating the retirement age.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13169	Mrs Fekter spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13190	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! With the new budgetary law, we have made a change, from the old Jewish camera-list to accounting and accounting, just as corporations do. This brought more cost-effectiveness, brought more transparency. At that time, I still presented the first opening account of the federal government as Minister of Finance in 2013. There was already a negative asset at the time. I was totally surprised and couldn't imagine before that we didn't build up a positive asset with these billions of debts that we've taken up in the past. The negative assets of the federal government continue to grow, from € 148 billion to € 153 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We should be thinking about how we use taxpayers' money. The deficit in this federal accounts accounts is significantly improved by minus €1.8 billion compared to the estimate, but still a minus. It is gratifying – and I now mention this in terms of the opposition’s calls – that the way leads in the right direction. The primary balance is positive at €3.38 billion. This is possible due to the low interest rates. GDP growth was better than forecast, price stability is guaranteed, employment has grown, current account surplus has grown from € 2.6 billion to €8.6 billion. All this stabilises our budget and has really improved significantly compared to 2014. Overall, we meet EU fiscal targets, except for the high debt ratio already mentioned. She's our child of concern at the Fiscal Goals. As a whole, rising unemployment is a major challenge. As a result of immigration and still low growth rates, it can also be expected that this problem will not be resolved by itself. We need economic growth, active location policy to create jobs. paper and paperboard, paperboard, paperboard, paperboard, However, CETA's rejection is also job-killers and increases unemployment. The Court of Auditors has carried out an examination of the verification of evidence, and its results have also been terrifying to me. More than half of the samples showed defects. The Court of Auditors, however, instructed the Court of Auditors to fix a deficit in a scale of €3.9 billion. It is clear that the mandate of the Court of Auditors to close the accounts is the right strategy. I'll bet you do that. I think we would not be as successful in resolving the problem, we would draw up the accounts similar to the budget and give the Court of Auditors only a record of confirmation. I would rather reject this strategy, which some people are calling for here, because it is not a target. The remedy of defects ensures that the Federal Services act uniformly in accordance with budgetary law. Unfortunately, we still do not have a comparable, uniform budgetary law of the countries. Many municipalities, first and foremost the city of Vienna, continue to refuse to deviate from the old intrusive camera music and to switch to a modern balance sheeting. I hope that we can take a step further in the financial compensatory negotiations. It would be high time!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13241	Next speaker: Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13263	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen! An accounting debate is always giving us the opportunity to look to the future, to invest which we should and want to make for our future. As we know, nearly 100,000 people have fled to Austria last year and have been admitted here. We also know that 70 000 to 80 000 people are likely to remain in our country, some longer time, some forever. That is to say, we have a common future in this country and we also need to think about investment in the context of it. Let me give you an example: I am, as you know, Vienna MPs; in Vienna will invest a lot in good for the common future. But I give you an example from Salzburg: Salzburg has taken money into its own hands and invested in German courses, saving 1.1 million € in basic security, cash on its own. Such investments make people independent of basic security; they can stand on their own feet and take care of themselves. And the saved money can be reinvested in the common future. Or: Vorarlberg – all these are not socially democratically governed federal states – is the only federal state in which it is possible to integrate 30 percent of refugees into the labour market. That's an example! [[Abg. Moser: This is the green manuscript!]] That means: If you want, you can! I wish for the whole federal territory that we invest in the skills for our common future, for the independence of people from basic security to make them fit. I think I still have a few seconds to take an example from the red Vienna: In Vienna, within eight months, a youth college was set up for young people between 15 and 21 years of age – German courses, qualification measures. 1 000 young people will benefit from it, so the Federal Capital will also benefit from it. Finally, I am very grateful to the staff of the Court of Auditors, and to you, Madam President, I wish you every good thing for your term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13299	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13321	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and today especially in front of the TV screens! With a net result of €4.8 billion, the 2015 national accounts show a slightly better result than at the time of the estimate of €5.1 billion. With a public deficit of 1.2 per cent and a structural deficit of 0.1 per cent of GDP, important deficit sizes, I would say, were kept at least in check. In 2015, Austria therefore fulfils the European Fiscal Goals quite clearly, but with a significant exception. The exception is the debt ratio, ladies and gentlemen, which, at 86.2 percent of GDP, almost reaches record levels, which clearly exceeds 2014 – at that time 84.3 percent – and clearly exceeds the Maastricht criterion of 60 percent. Let us, therefore, stop talking with such ridicules, ladies and gentlemen, as if we were talking about caputt savings! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where is the saving to be seen if you spend almost €5 billion a year more than you take? To spend € 5 billion more than to take it could not afford to be an entrepreneur or a private person in Austria. And where is the saving to be seen when our country's debt increases year after year? For great further investment by the state, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said recently, about which we have been able to read in some international media, for great further expenditure of the federal government, and of course there must be no room for manoeuvre. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, has no - I say - general competence with which he could provide a compelling saving discipline. Therefore, one has to realistically see that the role of finance ministers in recent years is ultimately a very clear one, that is, worse. The new President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Kraker, has also clearly identified the risks involved in addressing the budgetary challenges of the coming years. In concrete terms, the Court of Auditors advises us to eliminate existing inefficiencies, double-tracks and overlaps of competence in some areas rigorously and quickly. In this context, attention is paid mainly to the areas of education, health, social affairs, but also to promotions. Thank you very much also from my side and from our group to the Court of Auditors, to President Moser, to the employees for the careful preparation of the invoice, and of course also to the order and request to Madam President Kraker to continue this course very clearly. It is clear that we urgently need to consolidate our budget on the expenditure side. The options for action are clearly shown, and we should not forget – this has already been addressed here or there – that we are still benefiting from an extreme low interest rate phase. At the latest, when interest rates rise again, ladies and gentlemen, if, for example, interest rates increase by only one percentage point, we face enormous challenges. In addition to this, perhaps a short boost, because perhaps there or there wealth taxes are always dreamed of: The zero interest rate phase is de facto a very, quite brutal asset tax, which means a systematic redistribution of private individuals to the States. [[Abg. Oils: Brutal!]] In this sense, it should already be noted that the ECB's policy is, at least to this extent, very critical to see and to highlight. [[Abg. Oils: We're going to collect!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude with a note that is important for our taxpayers, especially the future and young generations: In Austria, we must finally stop living at the expense of our children. We need to recognise the need for reform – it is clear that it has been shown by the Court of Auditors as well. We need to eliminate the leftovers in Austria. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13377	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13398	Madam President. Greetings to God, Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and at home! Now a special greeting to the delegation of the Economic League of Mariahilf: A rather warm greeting to God for listening today to this debate on the federal accounts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have now discussed it; I think it has been mentioned all the figures, all the strengths, all the weaknesses. We have heard some of the really not quite fair criticism of the opposition parties, but that is part of the role of opposition parties. We have heard the legitimate criticism of the President of the Court of Auditors, which is to be taken seriously. These shortcomings are easy to eliminate. We also know, however, that when we came in here a year or a short year ago, we decided on the 2015 budget, we have heard from all the opposition parties that this budget is a beautiful budget, is in no way to be respected and will not be kept. Today we have the facts on the table, and they show that this budget has kept the requirements. I always say that you have to see a budget like an economic operator in the overall balance sheet first and then go into detail areas to see what is still to be done and what is to be done there. However, the budget presented by the Minister for Finance has kept, as has been said, and there has even been more revenue. There were, of course, certain preferential effects, we also know, but we also know that there has been much more expenditure in the field of security and integration, which has gone into the three-digit millions. Nevertheless, we have completed the budget with a better result than we decided a year ago. This must also be noted positively, because we know which numbers we had on the table a year ago and which numbers are on the table today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have to say something quite clearly: We know the budget path. If we want to comply with this, we know that we must continue to implement the reforms announced as soon as possible. One thing is all the same, whether in the family, in a business or in the state: If you spend more regularly, someday the day you have a huge problem comes! That's why we need to see that doesn't happen. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] It is very important that, if this budget path is respected, we also have a certain margin to invest simply in the future, to invest in growth, to invest in the economy as well, because we know that it also links future and new jobs and simply remains the economic power of Austria. As I said, the reforms have been implemented. If we have this consequence, if we have this courage – and this is what the Austrians expect from us – then we will, as we have said, bring the budget there once again, that we have a surplus that we can invest even more in the future and thus also secure the future of our children, our youth in this country, in this beautiful country. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13458	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13480	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Here and now, we've all heard it: We should, we should, we could, we wanted. [[Abg. Obernoster:... join us too!]] But we don't! This is my appeal now, after I have really listened to all the members of the government in this debate and have also taken note of the President's words. Yes, this is, so to speak, an entire will program that you have presented to us. Only, this will: It's the foreign exchange – what does that mean? – “Success through control” is actually a currency for Parliament. I would like to take it from you that this is the purpose of the Court of Auditors, just: Your problem is that we have to do what you propose! This action always depends on: We could, should, would, should! and this: We could, should, should, wanted!, should finally get into action! I would have a wonderful proposal, which the President also mentioned here, which the budget service, which we have used, has done in studies and which my colleague Rossmann mentioned at the outset: Why do we not at last do so – and I am saying this now in transitory terms – in accordance with the recommendations that the federal accounts are presented by the financial body and that the Court of Auditors is, as it were, solely audited? Why do we not go about finally introducing the international standard: The Court of Auditors is doing the hakerl, but is presented and prepared by the BMF? Madam President, that was your plea; I will only repeat it. Why don't we do that? Why do we not change the Constitution, the Financial Constitution, in this direction? - That doesn't cost us anything! This saves us from the Court of Auditors budget, and the Court of Auditors would be relieved. The Court of Auditors could then control more other areas, lead to success in more other areas – “success through control” is what it says. Let us do this, Mrs Fekter, an alliance, Mrs Tamandel, especially the members of the Committee on Budgets. Yeah, it's all right! It's just a question of will. It doesn't cost, and it saves us something. [[Abg. Fekter: But it doesn't do anything!]] – Sure it brings something! The Court of Auditors shall have free resources. Check out, Moser has always said... [[Abg. Fekter: You've been in control, yet...!]] – Please inquire, Mrs Fekter, I would like to invite you. – That would be a first proposal. A second proposal, a third and a fourth, can be found in the Court of Auditors' lines that, in order to achieve sustainable budgeting, what the Federal Government has proposed, it is finally necessary to relieve the use of funds in terms of inefficiency, double-tracking and overload of competence. The President-in-Office said: Education, pensions, health, social affairs, research, promotions – there are double-tracks, there are inefficiencies, because the funds are not, so to speak, clearly distributed, but there are overlaps. We should finally clean this up! I have also talked about it with many Members of the Government, because I want solutions. I don't want to constantly criticize them, I want something going on! These colleagues – also a laughing colleague on the part of Mrs Tamandl – tell me again and again: [[Abg. Fekter: Shit helmet she's called! Dorothea schittenhelm!]] The process is missing. The process is missing! We are quite prepared to prepare competences too, but that is the power of certain countries. It seems that the colleagues from the government parties are constantly biting their teeth. Why not have in mind, as it were, the skirt of the MP and the skirt of the MPs in mind and not the shirt of the mayor or of the mandate in your own federal country, which seems to always depend on how you now behave in the National Council: whether you represent the interests of the country or – for which you were elected – the interests of the federal government. So you could really take your own skirt, so to speak, and give priority to the general economic and general interests, so that the reforms, which the Court of Auditors repeatedly calls in the form of these 1,007 detailed proposals, are finally implemented so that something is finally done and not always this here in the speeches: We could, should, wanted, should!, and so on, repeat. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! You have in us oppositions relative – how do you say? – a lot of echoes. We are glad that your employees are very reliable and very serious at work and always provide a good argument. Only: We must implement it here, my colleagues from the government parties, here in this plenary session, so that the tax money is actually used responsibly and not in double-tracks, incompetence, inadequacy, inefficiencies, inefficiencies and so on. This is now, I think, at least the tenth plea I'm holding here. I hope that an eleventh will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13562	Mr Steinbichler is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13606	Mr President. Madam President, I should also like to congratulate you on your very important work. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear taxpayers on the gallery, but especially now, after work at most, in front of the televisions! And yes, Mrs Fekter, I have a Taferl, but I will explain it a little later. Perhaps the saying of the day or the quote of the day on today's discussion, on this invoice 2015: “A government must be economical because the money it receives comes from the blood and sweat of its people. It is fair that each individual contributes to helping to bear the expenditure of the State. But it is not fair for him to share half of his annual income with the State.” – Friedrich the Great, 1712. This quote is 300 years old, and as long as these discussions take place in this House, Mrs Fekter, on the financial compensation, on the projects, on the elections, on the reforms, as long as this statement will also apply! It really was correct here, especially by the President of the Council, some of the statements made by colleagues, who were directly speaking about how well the budget is, how good this Austria is. I have a bad feeling every time I think about the future of my anchor: 290 billion € Public debt – friends, colleagues, I am not good at this! To that end, we need to know what the President-in-Office has said: That reduces the population's wealth. That's the facts, and that's the reality. This is simply irresponsible, even to taxpayers, because it simply deceives voters in terms of reality and awareness of the problem. It's a constituency to beautify this! Madam President, thank you for talking about the reformability of this government. This is precisely what the ex- vice-chanter and ex-finance minister Hannes Androsch said at a lecture at the Oberbank in Linz. He was interviewed by the editor-in-chief of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, and Hannes Androsch said: The state, the state of power of this government is quite easy to describe: This federal government is very strong in its failure and very weak in its implementation. We need to discuss these results here. These are the results! Mr Obernosterer, even though we still speak so positively, even if we still wish ourselves such a positive thing: If you don't bring a dish out of your kitchen that tastes your guests, you can't talk about it at the table. This is about this court in this kitchen Austria, which we put on the table, and the President has justifiably said: 80 requests from the Court of Auditors have not yet been dealt with by this government. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts. I think it is the same with the alternative energies, Mrs Greiner has talked about it – the opposite is the case, Mrs Colleague! The bio-heating plants at Energie AG in Timelkam, the bio-heating plant at FACC in Ried and others were either shut down or ground, or it is heated with nuclear current and Russian gas. And in the advertising of the government it says then, the electricity becomes greener, but domestic jobs, the jobs are being killed and thus also popular wealth. Mrs Fekter, I am today proposing that, because of her behaviour regarding CETA and TTIP, both in the survey and today's discussion, the EIA simply withdraws the word People's Party from the party name again. I have an alternative name: They could be baptized on the “Group Party of Austria. ” I don't need to say the abbreviation because it's already occupied. These are the facts. You have to ask here – Mrs Moser has just said it –: Do we represent the countries here? Do we represent party interests here? Or do we represent the future of our country? – I believe that there is no higher task – and we are elected – than to represent the interests and the future of citizens in this state. At the event already mentioned, Director Gasselsberger of the Oberbank also criticised the fact that this margin of €9 billion – this is an unimaginable amount that would be available to this government alone through the cheaper interest rate – is not used for the economic engine but for debt eradication. The reason why we are losing more and more in the international ranking is, I believe, precisely these significant differences with our German neighbours. That's where it's done: Since Schröder and the 2010 Agenda, they have been thinking about the future there. We're making a hole-to-hole policy. This government lacks the clear strategy for the future and also the courage to implement it. There is this mutual rumour, one feels it in the ongoing discussions. There's no question: So you can't work on a construction site, so you can't work in any facility. This is exactly the result we are discussing here. I believe that it is high time we implement these proposals by the Court of Auditors. It is 1 027, and at this point I should like to thank your predecessor, Madam President, Mr Moser, once again: He left 1 027 suggestions to your change. [[Abg. Moser: 1 007 is it!]] I think that's a working paper for this government. We all have to pull one strand. We need a policy for the future, because we pay with the checkcard of our anchors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13647	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13669	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors, welcome to plenary! I should like to take the opportunity to apologise for a bit of an aspect that we have already discussed in the Committee, namely, with regard to the distrust that, if the Court of Auditors drew up the final report, it would be less critical – would be less critical! – as if he were just testing him. [[Abg. Fetter: No, much more critical!]] [[Abg. Haider: No one said that! That's all you're saying!]] Now we don't have a lot of auditors, but those who are there will confirm this to me: I don't think so. [[Abg. Fekter: Me neither!]] The Court of Auditors is permanently ordered, it does not have to fear his order, nor does it receive a fee. Madam President, take along the following, including for your employees: We trust that what is critical remains critical. And to the colleagues who made this point: I would like to repeat the same as in the Committee. Please consider: The Court of Auditors is an institution of this House. And there is a budgetary sovereignty of Parliament. It is our budget, and we are responsible for the preparation – the Minister of Finance is the executive – so our institution concludes. So the workers of our constitution were not so unchecked either, and in this sense I would make changes in this area with great caution. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Fekter.]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second point: I would like to hear almost a statement of commitment from the opposition colleagues because I still have in mind the words you have found when the budget for this conclusion, which we are discussing now, was decided: why this will not hold that the forecast is far too optimistic and that, when the break-in comes and growth is not so strong, we will suffocate in debt and in rising deficits. – Please be They are neither meteorologists nor economic researchers, for nor worse forecasts can we afford in the country! That opposition was completely beyond that. This budget proves: It has been observed, we have properly budgeted, and we have kept all the targets despite weaker than expected growth. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Deimek: Who do you want to tell?]] The last point is: I can also thank you at this point today, namely – Otto Pendlsay: Right! – the government partner ÖVP. [[Abg. That's what Otto Pendl does...!]] Jan Krainer has literally read the relevant passages of a “FAZ” interview by the Chancellor, who was mistakenly criticized by some as a call for debt making and otherwise as criticism, but the group has correctly recognized that they were correct statements, and has also commended him for doing so. I thank you for this, because such an insight is better than some of the cross-borders of the Minister for Finance, and I therefore say to the coalition partner: Keep going! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13792	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's final word is not wanted. In this way we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1256 of the supplements. If you agree to this bill, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:17:43]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 34, 55, 57, 61 and 62, 65 and 76 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 73, 78, 80, 83, 88 and 91 to 96 (1248, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13845	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. The first speech is from the honourable Member, Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13872	Mr President. High National Council! Dear visitors to the gallery! It is now about the collective report on the petitions you have mentioned, Mr President. I shall now, from a liberal point of view, argue with the motion for a resolution 57 and debate this again in plenary. It is about our former Member and current Carinthian councillor Mag. Gernot Darmann has filed a petition entitled “Salvation of the Arms Pass for Hunters”. Here we already come to a very serious issue, namely that we are aware of the fact that the arms law on the left and certain circles in this Republic is being observed more and more with Argusaugen – a arms law that is already very, very restrictive and with clear rules – and obviously is being tried to drive righthearted citizens into illegality, so to speak. In this context, I would just like to mention the European Commission's considerations about prohibiting semi-automatic weapons, although it is known that in recent years and months all terrorist attacks have always been carried out with fully automatic, illegal weapons – tragically. So we do not see in any way a need for change here. In addition, we are now trying to make the arms passport exhibitions, where there are clear legal guidelines, more restrictive. We note that even police officers are getting less and less out of arms passports, although they actually have the legal requirement and need to put themselves into service in certain problems, so that problems arise on the street. And this becomes interesting when a police officer has to bend and pick up a stick that he might find on the street to fight with the Chechen criminal on the street. It can't be! Just as little can it be that one now tries to act more restrictively with regard to the weapon passport for the hunters. There are very clear guidelines, namely § 21 and § 22 of the Waffengesetz. These paragraphs precisely regulate the issue of the weapon passport for the hunting use, and that also makes sense. Now, as has been said, in execution, in administrative execution, it has been strangely ever more often that there have been no more arms passports spent on hunters. Based on that, there was our petition. Interesting about this is one thing: As we already have to realize that there has been a change in the law on administrative routes, because the administrative court is mistakenly – or consciously?, that is now the question – the following is found – and I am now quoting: “Then the hunting skill must be expected from a hunting practitioner,” – na no na ned, that’s actually a logical conclusion – “research for game (also black game) with a hunting weapon even in a motionless terrain, without needing a weapon of category B.” – Category B is often a fist firearm. So I really want administrative court officials to have a lot of fun if they have to make some half-laden game, if you want to say so now, or if you have to hunt him in a rough area with the hunting weapon, so to speak. So there has just been a change in the law on the administrative path, and that was the background to our petition. I would ask everyone here in this House who is involved in the legislation to ensure the normal way of legislation and to counteract such strange findings of the Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13927	The next speaker was Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e13949	Mr President. Fathers. Ladies and gentlemen. At the last meeting of the Committee on Petitions, we discussed 43 agenda items in total, and I would like to point out that there was something new this time. We had six hearings in advance, and I believe that it was an important action to re-design it, because it had the opportunity for the importers to express their concerns and their motivations as to why they brought it in. I think that's a The model that we should continue to follow, because in this way every political group had the opportunity to mention at least a citizens' initiative or petition, which was then discussed with the intruders there. However, I would also like to mention that, ahead of this committee, an event has also taken place with those responsible for citizens' initiatives and petition committees from other countries. I would like to thank colleagues Bernhard very much for organizing this, because it was very important to see the perspective of the other states. We have the opportunity in October to deepen these talks in Luxembourg, and the opportunity to discuss them more closely with the Luxembourg colleagues and colleagues. I would like to mention another point that I particularly liked: There are thematic packages that, like TTIP or CETA today, are up-to-date and are constantly being introduced by citizens' initiatives. It makes sense to sum up this to an overall package and not to have the same process again and again in each session, so that something can be passed on. Our task is to take the experience from all the discussions and also from what we are trying to do and to develop the Committee. We have already taken a few steps, but it will be important for further steps to be taken to remodel the Committee during this legislative period, I say now – I already know it very, very long. I would, however, like to come back to the hearing. There have been six different issues, and I would like to address the 88 citizens' initiative, which concerns the principle of 'best-in-cheap bidders for regular bus calls', the maintenance of quality and social standards in this area and the mandatory transfer of staff when tendering for regular bus services is carried out. It is very important that this best bidder principle, which we have already enshrined in the construction industry, is also enshrined in the Federal Procurement Act on public regional and local transport. We have assigned this task to the Constitutional Committee. However, it is also included in the definition of award procedures with regard to quality and social standards to be cast into federal legal standards. I think that's an important thing: Quality for local and regional transport, so that customers there also have a corresponding quality, and on the other hand the social standards to ensure for employees that they have any possibility. The Citizen Initiative 85 on “Earth!” was also a topic. This is about abolishing the marriage ban on same-sex couples. I would like to point out that almost 40 000 supporters have already signed. We have received further opinions, and there is still the possibility that this citizens' initiative will be supported in order to highlight this issue in particular, because it is about giving similar couples in Austria the possibility of marriage, which is already going on and going on in other countries. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The initiative aims to end this discrimination. I just have to say one thing: If yesterday in the ORF Carinthia has been discussed whether it is a discrimination when a women's sauna day or a man's sauna day is introduced, then it is high time that we deal with this issue "Eh eh!" and carry out a positive process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There were many concerns, many initiatives, various topics in 43 points, but I would like to say one thing: It is true, of course, that not always the interests of the consignors, but also the political groups, can be followed directly, but it is an important part of the process. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Thank you to my colleague Bernhard! We will continue to develop the Committee – I think all political groups agree. We will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14024	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14045	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I refer to the petition number 65 on smoking law, TPD2, an EU directive which we have implemented here in Parliament. I do not want to talk about smoking for too long, but I would like to explain briefly what this petition we support. Brief explanation on the main topic – I have it here –: an e-cigarette, a steam device, I say once. [[Keeping an e-cigarette in height]] This TPD2 has now thrown all classic cigarettes, chewing tobacco and electrocigarettes into a package, and this is of course factual and professionally completely wrong. E-cigarettes are proven not to be harmful to health, neither active nor passive, and yet the legislator in Austria has over-filled this EU directive and is more or less prohibiting this e-cigarette in Austria as well as a classic cigarette. In Austria, approximately 250 000 people are steaming. I myself started steaming about three months ago, could reduce my cigarette consumption by 70 percent, since then several thousand cigarettes have smoked less. That means that we should all be interested in supporting this. And what does the legislator do? – He does exactly the opposite. Another important note: 50 percent of all smokers who start this process are finally released from the cigarette, whereas only 3 percent are trying to do so via pharmacy products. The legislator has installed some obstacles in TPD2 specifically for steam history: There is a ban on advertising, there are extremely complicated conditions of admission, and then, in my opinion, even the Clou, there is an Internet trade ban that should not actually exist in the European Union. That means, even if this product is approved in Germany, I must allow it once again in Austria, or I must not sell my product beyond the borders of Austria within the European Union – that is to say, it's completely insanity. What has happened since this law came into force? – Very briefly: 40 percent of sales in Austria – and this concerns some, I think, 75 to 80 steam shops – some dozen entrepreneurs had to stop already, almost 150 new unemployed. By the way – in order to also come to the shock pictures –: What happened? – The consumption of classic cigarettes has decreased by exactly 0 percent. Say: Everything you wanted with the law here didn't happen, that is, it's no less smoking. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14115	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wurm is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14169	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14190	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Visitors at the gallery! With this report we discuss a total of 19 petitions and citizens' initiatives. Among them are 11 citizens' initiatives, with at least 500 electors signed. My previous speaker, Hermann Lipitschhat, has already stressed that we in the Committee strive to treat any petition or citizens' initiative as best as possible, either by giving opinions from ministries or institutions, by means of hearings or by loading first signatorys, or by assigning it to a specialist committee or, of course, also to the public prosecutor's office. Overall, I think, we have opened up a great deal by also obtaining electronic consent to these petitions and citizens' initiatives. When we discuss here today, we discuss a variety of topics – from health to mobility, justice, culture, security, education, family, asylum, media, housing right to the origin of food and so on. It can be seen, therefore, that the citizens use direct democracy. This spring I myself put in a petition for the registration of registers, which is about achieving practical solutions for associations and volunteers. Austria is a country where volunteering is high in the course: 3.3 million people volunteer in 122 000 clubs. This is a huge contribution to social security, but also, of course, to social cohesion. The petition called for practical solutions, as has already been said, by increasing the turnover and profit-free limits, facilitating and practicality in the investor sharing obligation, support for associations and permanent organisers in technical processing. In addition to this petition, there was, of course, still massive support from all sides, and after intensive discussion, a feasible, reasonable solution was then decided in the July-Plenum. There is thus clarity for associations and hosts, simple and understandable regulations, reliefs and new impulses for the gastronomy and a clear commitment to the association in Austria. Especially for clubs, the collaboration of clubs and gastronomy is possible. There are some simplifications among the non-refundable employees, there is no registration fee for smaller club canteens, and the expansion of the small club festivals from 48 to 72 hours is currently encountered by public bodies, for example the fire brigade. For the host, it is possible that the co-operation of closer relatives, which helps in the short term and free of charge, was extended to include the cold-handling regime, and a simple and unbureaucratic employment of temporary workers was made possible. As a bringer of this petition and on behalf of many association officials and representatives of the Blue Light organizations, I thank all those who participated, especially the Federal Minister Schelling. There is now clarity, there is transparency, there is fairness, there are reliefs and less or more reasonable bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14248	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14269	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the visitor gallery! The Citizens' Initiative 78 “estimation of family work – fair childcare funding for all” was supported by more than 5,200 citizens, and was taken note of by the government parties after receiving the opinion. “The success of a social culture depends entirely on the early happiness of the children.” – This is a quote from the well-known German family educator Wolfgang Bergmann, whom I can join to a hundred percent. This quote is also used as the principle of this citizens' initiative. Families today have a hard time unless they are among the few rich. 1.5 million people are on the poverty line, more than 400,000 children are vulnerable to poverty and are at risk of social exclusion for economic reasons. The financial pressure on families is increasing. In the case of rising housing and living costs, stagnating salaries and maximum tax burden, unlike in the past, both parents usually have to work to ensure family care. The ideas and concerns of the citizens' initiative are an interesting starting point for future family policy in Austria: The aim is to ensure equality between extra-family and internal family childcare. According to current studies, 80 percent of mothers want to care for their children themselves, but this is mostly not possible in the light of the financial conditions, according to the contributors of this citizens' initiative. It is therefore appropriate to draw up a personal picture of family work on the part of politics, which includes those women who deliberately choose to raise and care for their children mostly themselves. The Signatories of the Citizens' Initiative require a parental salary corresponding to the costs of out-of-patient care, with pension and health insurance as with any other employment. Because mothers are financially insured, there is a real freedom of choice between family and employment. Our families have always been the losers in the last ten years: Family aid has still not been adjusted to inflation rates, the calculation of child rearing periods for the pension remains at a low level, and labour law care has not been extended to three years, as requested by the liberals. The child care account in force from March 2017 is not only complicated, but also provides families with a reduction in the period of reference and less money. At the same time, there is a lack of childcare facilities that are open all year round and all day long. In rural regions in particular, there are professionals and single-parents who have been thrown up without support by their own family or expensive mother-in-law. Summary: The citizens' initiative, which has been introduced here, wants the same value as internal family and extra-family childcare. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14317	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14339	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lipitsch and Mr Gahr have already mentioned that there is still a need for reform in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, but that we have gone a long way in the way in which we have worked – in any case our approval of this report is, in any case, because we have reached some essential points, namely the technical committees, and on some essential points, even results have been achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, let me also show again at a citizens' initiative how far and how deeply such citizens' initiatives sometimes move our house, namely at the Citizens' Initiative on TTIP and CETA, which we have been getting into the house some time ago. This has also included a call for a parliamentary survey. We held them here last week, and it was very, very interesting, constructive, including civil society and many experts. So we can see that the demands of citizens' initiatives and petitions here in Parliament are very likely to come up with far-reaching attacks, and I think this is excellent. On the occasion also addressed to the chairman Michael Bernhard: These positive impulses for our working methods also have to do with the impulses that the chairman gives then and when. In concrete terms, these were also these parliamentary discussions that we had, with good experts from other regions, that is from other countries, from other parliaments. In exchange for this right of petition and citizens' initiative, we see that there are still good opportunities to improve and deepen this with us. I hope that in the course of the next meetings, we will also take concrete action in this direction, perhaps also in a joint resolution, which I would very much welcome if we moved on here. In concrete terms, these hearings or initial hearings of petitioners and citizens' initiative representatives are enshrined in the Rules of Procedure, that we are working together from the Committee for such an anchoring in the Rules of Procedure of the House. Finally, I would like to mention a few specific examples which, from my point of view, were very positive, namely the petition concerning the Uhudler. This problem, which concerns regional food and the interests of the regional economy, could also be solved: The Uhudler is – under quotations – “geettet”, the EU has not gone over it. We have been able to solve it constructively. Another example is a citizens' initiative, which, I believe, is very groundbreaking, namely on fair food, for which we also had a hearing. We then assigned them to the Committee on Agriculture for further treatment, and I must say that the citizens' initiative is really committed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – Yes, that is true of the citizens’ initiative! Why? Because it has shown that commitment to designations of origin and regional products can create up to 10,000 jobs in Austria, as demonstrated by a Kepler University study. So I think these are very important impulses that we are taking with us in the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to say in advance: There were also good central political demands. One example was the question of public tendering for regular bus services. This is about the citizens' initiative calling for the application of the best bidder principle instead of the cheapest bidder principle. – Yes, of course, a trade union initiative, very positive, also supported by us. I'm just saying one thing: In the context of CETA, the Canadian-European Free Trade Agreement, this is precisely what needs to be transatlantic. After that I want to see! In such things it will go well, and there we will also be there and there... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] - Yes, Mr. Scherak, it is. [[Abg. Scherak: But best bidder also goes transatlantic!]] – Of course, best bidders also went transatlantic. The point is only if a foreign provider feels disadvantaged by the tender criteria, then we have the first arbitration procedure in the field of public transport. So you see, things aren't that easy. And we are becoming CETA, of which I am convinced that there is also some initiative here in the house – by the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14390	Next speaker: Mr Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14412	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of this House! The present report contains, among other things, the Citizens' Initiative No. 96 ‘OH contribution to reduce!’. In other words, the operators of this citizens' initiative are committed to reducing the compulsory contributions that all students in Austria have to pay to the Austrian high school, from currently €19.20 to €4.50. Hiezu have two opinions, one from the Ministry and one from the Federal Office of the Austrian High School. It states that it is opposed to this citizens' initiative because it is ultimately doing a high-quality job because it needs funding for training, advice and services as well as support for student projects and initiatives. Yes, Hohes Haus, it is the task of the Austrian high school to provide advice. It is their job to accompany students through their studies, to help them with advice and deed. At some universities, at some colleges, they do well, and some of them are not doing so well. If you look at it in total, you have to say quite clearly that the officials of the Austrian high school do not do so very well, because if only a quarter of all students actually deal with the activities of the ÖH and there is a voting participation of between 20 and 25 percent in ÖH elections – and this will always prove to us – then you have to say quite clearly that the representation obviously does not work properly. One should also consider why this is so, what the officials of the Austrian high school do otherwise and what they use the membership contributions to do. For example, the organizers of a concert for solidarity with the uprisings in Turkey, the production of a music video, a ring paradise or film projects in Georgia. There was a sex at the University of Soil Culture. Toy-base course. And let us not forget in this context the probably biggest scandal within the Austrian high school, namely the financial scandal around the Café Rosa. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Half a million euros of membership contributions were placed in the sand! These are the contributions of 25 000 students who have been wasted by left officials of the Austrian high school. In all these processes, you can't really wonder if most of the students turn away from the ÖH. In this context, I can say that it is a pity that our request to allocate this citizens' initiative to the Scientific Committee has been rejected, because it is not possible to bring things that seem to have run out of the row back into the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14463	Next speaker: Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14484	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! On the Committee's collective report: First of all, I would like to address the issue more generally – fortunately, I have received a little more speaking time from my club today – and then I would like to address a specific citizens' initiative. We are on the outside of Parliament's business card, so to speak, among the committees. We are the only committee that can actually invite the citizens to the house or, even more rarely, see themselves directly with the citizens on the spot. We have seen a very good development over the last three years, I think, and this is to a good degree a cooperation between government parties and opposition parties. If we are often very different in content, we have taken a few steps together. We last held a hearing in June, during which we brought six citizens' initiatives before the curtain and discussed with the initiators over a longer period of time, namely a whole morning. There are now further steps. What's the next thing we do? . We have started an international exchange, and at my invitation with colleagues from the German Bundestag, the South Tyrol People's Procuratorate, with representatives of the Luxembourg Parliament, some German country days and some Austrian country days, we had a club in Parliament. Exciting was to realize that we are not connected within Austria. So what is going on in Germany and what is going on is that Members of the Committee on Petitions call at the Landtag in the Bundestag and ask how it looks, or call in Brussels, we don't have that. The Austrian Parliament does not think towards the federal states, towards regions or towards Europe. And we have also localized some weaknesses. We are next invited to the Luxembourg Parliament, where we will look at the whole thing even more closely, but there are already a few things to be noticed: Why can the German Bundestag pass on topics, petitions, citizens' initiatives to the countryside, to the European Parliament and not the Austrian Parliament? We respond to such a petition or citizens' initiative, stating that we have no competence to start from the beginning, with a new form, with a new collection of signatures, and that the citizens spend another half of their time doing so. Why does Austria, with more than 8 million inhabitants, have much less staff for the Committee on Petitions – by 10 percent – than the city of Bremen or the Luxembourg population of 500 000? We don't have two employees who take care of the petition committee, so we don't have to do that exclusively. I do not want to say now that we in Parliament need more resources, but if we are outside the business card and if we say that we want to make Parliament closer to citizens, why is this not also reflected in the resources? We have agreed – all political groups, both government groups and opposition groups – that we now want to balance our positions in autumn and then look for consensus on the areas in which we can change the Committee on Petitions in a sustainable way. Why Do I Say “Sustainable ”? – As it now works, it is very good, but in the constellation it will not always be so, for various reasons, at least not considered on the next decades. You can say that. If new Members are in the committee, the quality must be guaranteed, and that is the point I keep calling: We must make a right out of grace, and we can only do so if we break the Rules of Procedure, in particular Mrs Scherak, convince us that it is possible and that reform is still possible in this legislative period. Secondly, and finally, in order not to break the framework: What is a successful Parliamentary citizens' initiative, and how long does it take to crack a hard nut? We were concerned that there should be the financing and construction of a tomb for victims of Mali Trostinec from Austria. The whole subject in itself was quickly defined, it is about victims of the National Socialists and the last place where a very large number of Austrians have found death. Of more than 10,000 people deported from Austria, exactly 17 are documented. You can imagine that. There was an immediate consensus on the part of the Members that there was a need to do something about it. The question is: What happens in Parliament? How fast do you get the clubs? How quickly does one get a joint motion for a resolution to carry it on to the right committee at all? One of the descendants of such a victim launched a parliamentary citizens' initiative in February 2015 and brought together these 500 signatures within four months by contacting further descendants. It handed it over to Parliament in June 2015, and we also discussed this issue for the first time in June 2015 in the Committee on Petitions and received opinions to Parliament during the summer of 2015. As of autumn 2015, we have been looking for a common position that should bring not only an answer to the citizens' initiative but also a solution to the concerns. Finally, it took until June 2016 until a joint resolution was allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. That means we're talking about a year. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is meeting my knowledge next week, and then we are talking at least about October, possibly November, when the Committee supports a majority of this concern. On the one hand, my topic is a great gratitude that we have managed – I know it is not a matter of course – but on the other hand also the question: Should it not be a matter of course that on matters where there is a broad consensus in the house, we make such requests in a much faster response? I just want to give it to us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] As a business card from the House, we have the responsibility – and this is now my final statement – to respond quickly to concerns, and we as Members of Parliament – as all 183 Members, not just those from the Committee on Petitions! – ensure that the grace we have towards the citizens is finally justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14560	Next speaker: Mr Lasar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14581	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To the petition number 76 concerning ‘Practical solutions in the registration of associations and volunteers’: Mr Gahr, I must honestly say that I am a bit surprised that the ÖVP is just bringing in such a petition, because you have the opportunity to talk to your Minister of Finance about it on and on your own. We don't need a petition to do that. Just do it, then we don't need to talk about it at all! Do it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You know, that's exactly the style of the ÖVP: announce, do nothing, just talk about it. That's it! Now you come with a petition... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] - Yes, that's your problem, it's always the same. It is always the same thing with the ÖVP: announce, do nothing, just talk about it. [[Abg. Tamandl: It's been done for a long time! You were against it!]] – Yes, you can talk quietly, there is nothing in it. That's what I'm gonna do. [[Abg. Schönegger: You slept it!]] But leave it. In principle, you also say something about our line! Accounting obligation: On and on, we reject the whole, because that doesn't do anything. The only thing you've done is just that you've suspected the businessmen – the whole business, the small businesses – that they're evading all the tax evasions. That's what you did with it. All the small businesses, which often cannot even afford an employee who cannot even afford a registration bank, have thus been suspected of doing so. What have you done since then? – That's exactly two points, and I'm actually a bit surprised about that. First: You've made the law a little bit out of control now. In other words, if the annual turnover is below €30 000, sales outside fixed premises will now be subject to the registration fee. Nice and good! Second point: This also applies to canteens and so on, if sales are below €30 000. You did that. But what did that bring? This has brought something exactly to your associations of black and red. They complained to you, and that's why you just did it. No one understands that – and not even a small businessman! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schönegger: You're against clubs?- Oh, my God!]] That's a really unpleasant thing you did there to express the smile. It's a pure beautification action of red and black, so that you can get your associations back into the dry, and don't bring anything to the small entrepreneurs and to those who really can't afford anything. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Shame on it! – I say that to you today in my first speech. In my first speech, I say to you: Enjoy what you've done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14672	Mr Steinbichler is speaking next.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14701	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Prior to this important point citizens' initiatives: I think I can quote Stéphane Hessel here, with these two small writings, “Humble you!” and“ Engage! ” [[Keeping two specimens in height]] That is why I am sincerely grateful to all the citizens' initiatives, to all citizens who are willing to commit themselves to their issues and to volunteer. I believe that there is a state of life: that not only is it passed over, but the serious concerns of citizens are really taken into account. I will then refer to the Citizens' Initiative No. 80 – “Faire Food” – but I will explain the table in advance because I did not, and I would like to thank Bruno Rossmann for this – perhaps now following Mr Lasar’s remarks: Mr President, you have referred to the fair taxation which, of course, is a very important issue in the Court of Auditors' reports, and you have addressed the groups. On the panel is a picture of Dr. Tassilo Wallentin: The little ones are hanging, and the big ones are running. – I wanted to add that because it fits so well with the food and the topic TTIP and CETA. I am really excited about what the Canadian Foreign Minister has recently said, when reporting is true, that these concerns of citizens are justified. No, that is not political Pragmatism, but these are legitimate concerns of citizens. Thank you, Mrs.cky, for finally coming in: You should represent the small SMEs, not the corporations, because they represent themselves anyway and don't pay taxes – that's the addition to this picture. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] 62,000 cargo ships travel daily. You shouldn't take that on your shoulder now! 62,000 cargo ships, container cargo ships, operate on our seas free of tax, and when the customs duty is behind it, they go out and go to another tax authority. And that is the problem of this policy: that this is being negated! The little one is taxed if he does not pay his insurance, he will be removed from the car, and the big ones will be run. I'll give you an example. That's the biggest thing at all – that's how you can destroy domestic jobs. [[Keeping up to date with the logo of the agricultural market Austria and the title ‘Merkblatt’ and ‘Milch reduction measures 2016/17’]] The agricultural market Austria – this is the short version, which reads as follows: Fear depends on – just writes the milk reduction program. Yeah, what's that really? – It is a palm oil support programme through the agricultural market Austria! [[Keeping a further board with the logo of the agricultural market Austria and the title ‘palm oil support programme’]] We forbid our farmers to maintain the countryside. We forbid our farmers to produce healthy food, and instead we give palm oil in because it is a better business for our companies. – Friends, this is the policy of this government! I would like to refer to the petition number 80 and thank the present Fritz Jeitler very much for this initiative with over 50 000 signatures. Fair food: What does fair food mean? . He was very well-founded in the Committee on Petitions. This is about jobs and an economic factor. He has a study of Professor Schneider of the University of Linz: This provides 10,000 additional domestic jobs. Yes, Mrs Fekter was right, unfortunately she is not in the hall: There jobs are destroyed at TTIP and CETA – but if we sign it. First of all, domestic jobs are crucial, because that is regional purchasing power, that is regional quality of life, that is regional life culture, that is regional health, that is work, and that is security for our citizens. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] On the production standards mentioned, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, that's the decisive! – If I may even be able to control with the dog or jogging when walking or gassing, as my food supplier produces, when I see what field he works on, on which meadow he mowers and in which stable he works, then this is something else than seeing that the whole is delivered with the ship container – Nana Mouskouri: “A ship will come” – because: In the latter case, we have the problem with meat doping, with hormone meat, where we have the problem with food produced from GMOs. I am proud of Austrian production and thank all farmers for their clean work: GMO-free milk, GMO-free beef. These are achievements which you must not water down, but which you must protect, and I think that is the task of this Parliament. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Thank you once again for this great initiative, thanks to Jeitler with her employees, with the diligent and competent representatives outside, who drive from house to house every day in the discussion with the citizens, how important it is how much the longing for fair food is. I would like to end with climate change and environmental protection because, I believe, this is also a very essential point. If we have just experienced the warmest year of history, these normal weather transitions, as we know them in the country, are no longer possible, it goes from extremely hot to extremely cold, extremely dry last year, extremely wet this year, then we know that we have to secure ourselves very much: That's food sovereignty, that's healthy, real, honest food. Finally, I should like to say: Healthy foods are not expensive, but the most expensive are cheap foods. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14772	Mr Doppler is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14793	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Leo Steinbichler, from Nana Mouskouri back to the collection report for petitions and citizens' initiatives – of which we have already heard –: This is a very important institution because the concerns of the citizens here in Parliament are reflected. I take a position on the Citizens' Initiative No. 95 on the introduction of a legally binding, well-perceptible minimum noise for motor vehicles. We have already discussed this in plenary, I think it was brought in by Mrs Dietrich. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The noise-free and unaudible vehicles are a major problem, especially for blind and visually impaired people, but also for children and older people. For blind people – I recently spoke to a porter in our hospital – it is not perceptible, and that is a problem. There are, of course, various sources of danger. I think it is necessary and right to create legal basis here for these vehicles, which are otherwise in order, to be acoustically perceptible or to have a minimum noise and to be heard by older or disabled people. I think that would be necessary because this serves the safety of our fellow people who are a little impaired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14833	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14854	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Doppler, I would like to thank you very much for the delicate electric and hybrid vehicles. This is really a big handicap for blind people. In the opinion of BMVIT, we have received the notification that there is an EU regulation, according to which from 1 January. July 2019 all new vehicle types must be equipped with an alarm signal and from 1 July 2019. July 2021 all new vehicles. I think that's good once. It will still be important to ensure that the entire debate at EU level ensures that the break button is not fitted in the vehicles. The BMVIT is also of this opinion, because the pause button can be turned off in this way, and that is dangerous again for the blind and visually impaired people. But it's still under negotiation. I think we are in a good way that this really good instrument can then be implemented for the blind and visually impaired people. I would also like to address another petition, which also concerns people with disabilities, namely the petition number 63, in which public transport is required at affordable prices for those involved in the increased family aid, analogous to the top youth ticket. This would mean that those people who work in disability facilities, in employment therapy facilities, will receive a public transport ticket of 60 € analogous to the top youth ticket, such as the ÖBB. I think that would be very important, because these people – you have to know – receive a maximum of € 10 to € 70 pocket money in the facilities and on the one hand with this money the tickets can actually be very difficult to catch. On the other hand, support provided in the statements of the Ministries always applies only to the journey to work and not to the journey in the leisure sector. However, people with disabilities also have a right to mobility in leisure time, and therefore this top disabled ticket would be a really important achievement. I would also like to add that the opinions I have received from four ministries are very good and detailed. But I believe that the meaning of this top disabled ticket, if I can say that with respect now, has not been fully understood, because it is not support for people with disabilities to get to work, but it is a ticket that simply empowers people to be mobile in leisure time and to be able to participate in all kinds of things that do not involve disabled people. I would like to stress once again that this petition has been brought in by the school for social professions and these students speak from their everyday lives, in which they simply see that people get to work, get good support, get into employment therapy, but on the other hand are just excluded from leisure mobility. Perhaps we will find a way, a way, together with the countries, together with the transport associations, because, according to the ministries, they are responsible, together with the BMF or the Ministry of Family and Youth, to open up sources of money, if I may say so, and to allow these people this top disabled ticket. You can still support the petition. Please take advantage of the opportunity on Parliament's homepage! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14902	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14924	Mr President. High house! The topic of registration, associations and honorary office: In Austria, the association life and honorary office are extremely pronounced, but their activity has to be questioned, because not all associations are socially oriented. Our daily life is no longer imaginable, especially in a blue light organization. More than ever, the rural population is dependent on voluntary and voluntary activities in blue light organisations. Unfortunately, this voluntaryity has been marked for some time by a lack of young people. In addition, technology calls for increasing funding needs, so that municipal budgets are increasingly burdened. proceeds from events, which are also voluntaryly organised, flow to the club's fund and are mainly used for the purchase and maintenance of equipment as well as training. With the voluntary service in a blue light organisation and various dedicated revenue, the state saves much money. Registers and investor sharing obligations are disproportionate for such organisations and are beyond their meaning. In the event of proven social activity, it appears justified to waive such obligations on the part of the Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14948	The next item is Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e14969	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Council, ah, in the National Council! I would like to thank all those involved in a citizens' initiative, because they show their political interest in our state of Austria. I would like to refer to the Citizens' Initiative No. 88 on bus services, because regional bus transport is of great importance, especially in rural areas, because it transports students, in which the commuters and the elderly find their means of transport. On this citizens' initiative, there was also a hearing in the Committee on Petitions, where the trade union vida expressed its concerns, in particular with regard to the problems of social dumping. As a general rule, transport associations are issuing gross contracts, and this is of course the case in the case of: driving kilometers are paid and, the speaker says, one saves, especially in the wages of the staff. So he demands that the best bidder principle deviates from the cheapest bidder principle. It also says that the guide to social and quality standards should be introduced and that the working and remuneration conditions will be taken over by the new entrepreneur in the event of a change. We have received comments from the Ministry of Transport, and this says that there is already a guide to this, but regional authorities have the award and cannot be required. The Federal Chancellery also says that there are quality guidelines, but they are only used as guidance functions for the client. From my point of view, it is also important for the passenger to be at the centre of the public's attention. Transport is as simple as possible and there is an optimal coordination between the individual transport lines so that a high quality and, of course, a good information and service offer for the customer prevail. Contrary to the low-cost bidder principle, in the tendering process, additional services and innovations should be possible at an additional price, which must also be acceptable to the taxpayer, and this should also make improvements in current operation possible. In its work programme, the Federal Government has announced that it applies the best bidder principle to the low-cost bidder principle, and we have already demonstrated this at one of the last meetings by the New Procurement Act 2015. The first step has already been taken. Finally, I can say that we have allocated this citizens' initiative to the committee responsible, the Constitutional Committee, so that it will continue to deal with the citizens' initiative. That is, I think, the optimal solution in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15018	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15039	Mr President. High house! I can use this opportunity to point out a citizen initiative that has been very successful and, as I believe, is actually an exemplary movement. It is about the fact that in Belarus there is a place that has a great significance for Austrian history. Do you know where most Austrians have been murdered? – It’s not Auschwitz, it’s not Mauthausen, Dachau or any other place, it’s Maly Trostinec – Maly Trostinec in Belarus! It was above all a woman, Waltraud Barton, who brought this place back to the collective memory of Austria. I've known her for six, seven years. Ms. Barton is personally very affected, the first wife of her grandfather has been murdered in Maly Trostinec, including other family members, and Mrs. Barton has not let go of it. She has launched an initiative, Malvine, after the first name of her relatives. It has then also established an association that has become active, and it has also turned to us in Parliament. I really felt this was very positive, there were constructive talks between the parties. I should like to express my express thanks to Mr Bernhard, who has taken this into his hand. We have with Petra Bayr of the SPÖ, Mr President Kopf, who is also with me, Karl Oillingenround me from the Greens and precisely the Col- Bernhard von den NEOS has launched a joint initiative proposal as a result of this petition, and I hope that it will also be successful. Ms. Barton has achieved that in Austria, media have reported on this. She has achieved that today we know the number of victims much more precisely than before. Before we spoke of about 10,000, we now know that it is 13 500 Austrians who were, of course, Jews and Jews according to the Nürnberg laws. Mrs Barton now wants to have a worthy memorial in Maly Trostinec in Belarus, and I believe that as a Parliament we are called upon to live up to this wish and do everything in our power so that we can do the same. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Barton has also achieved the creation of a highly-occupied competition for ideas. There was also a jury in which Friedrich Achleitner sat, for example; Bertrand Perz was there, the head of the Jewish Museum, Mrs. Spera, was there. And there is also a draft that can be practically implemented. In this context, I believe: Civil society has done its job. Civil society has pointed out what is necessary. She has done preparatory work, and the civil society in the person of Mrs Barton is now turning to us as parliamentarians. I think all of us should be clear: Now politics is on the train, and we should take urgent steps to build a worthy memorial in Maly Trostinec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15096	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15118	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow Mr Walser's remarks immediately because he too has drawn a good picture of the work of the Committee on Petitions, which is being discussed today in a very simple and positive form. These are the mentioned citizens' initiative to set up a worthy memorial for the victims of the Shoa in Belarus, to which there will be the proposed four-party proposal in the next foreign policy committee as a genuinely sustainable consequence of this initiative. The second example is the vida initiative, which raised very specific problems in regional, especially rural bus transport. It has criticised, among other things, the low-cost bidder principle in the tendering process. As a result of this, we have jointly decided here in the House on a request which, in turn, has led the responsible Ministry of Transport to issue a directive which will in future be taken into account in the award of bus contracts both social and environmental aspects. – A sign that the Austrian Parliament is taking up, discussing and implementing the initiatives. Of course, there are also initiatives that must live with the fact that they do not find a political majority in this House, such as Mr Gehring's initiative on behalf of the Christian-Social Party, which we know, because he has once candidates for the election of the Federal President. It has launched a citizens' initiative to demolish the ORF. To ORF, we have already held a very detailed debate at the beginning of this meeting, and we have made a clear commitment to the ORF as an Austrian media organisation. No also to the initiative of the liberal students who aim to disintegrate the Austrian high school. The first point in this direction to abolish the representation of the Austrian students would be the massive reduction in the membership contribution required. This would have meant that the service consulting services of the Austrian high school can no longer be provided. On these two initiatives, we say no, but all in all, I believe, this report draws a good picture of Austrian policy, namely to include ideas from civil society, and, if they find a parliamentary majority, to implement it in concrete terms and to say, on the other hand, if something does not find the political majority in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15157	Next speaker: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15178	Mr President. High house! Appreciate viewers! I would like to speak to the petition 65, which reads: ‘amendment of the draft amending the Tobacco Act’. In fact, this petition would have overtaken itself, because we have already decided to amend the tobacco law, but the content of the petition is clear and worth discussing here too. This petition has caused quite controversial discussions in my group. There is the talk of 250 000 steamers in use in Austria, 200 000 of which have been sold via online trade. To ban online trade is, of course, a measure that is at most symbolic, because online trade does not stop before national borders. So it was the forerunner and resister of the arguments for the steamers to weigh. On the positive side, it is to be said that these steamers are much less harmful than cigarettes. It can also be said positively that the transition to steam cigarettes very often leads to the fact that smoking is stopped completely afterwards. Of course, we also wish our colleague Worm from the FPÖ to make the move to stop completely. However, it is negative to note that the liquids, which are the carrier substances that are evaporated, are, in part, also nicotine content and basically actually chemical cocktails. It is not quite clear what we actually ingest in our lungs when evaporating these substances. However, the e-cigarette is not only a way to get out, it is also an entry-level aid. When I think of my three sons, who are all three in an age where they want to try smoking and also try it, it becomes very clear to me that in their circle of friends more and more these steam devices are being used because: It's less harmful anyway! The step from this steamer to the cigarette is also a smaller one. So it's in both directions, and that's why I think that's a good way to weigh the fore and against when it comes to how we can, above all, protect our young people, our young people from going this way. I think in consideration of all the facts, all the facts have been good that we have banned this online trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15216	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15237	The citizens' initiative to set up the tomb for the Austrian victims of Mali Trostinec, the victims of the Nazi military dictatorship, is As has already been said, political action has been taken by the National Council. Four of the six parliamentary parties, all except FPÖ and Stronach, support this important project. It is about establishing a living, responsible and critical commemorative culture at the same time. We as current but also future generations will have to come out of such a memorial culture without surviving personal witnesses of the Nazi dictatorship, and yet we will have the task of warning, warning and also remembering. The tomb that is to be found in Mali Trostinec is on the one hand a real monument to those 40,000 to 60,000 people who have been murdered there; as said, about 10,000 of them Austrians. It is about giving them back names and identity and anchoring them in our collective memory. At the same time, it is a reminder never to allow such a fascist, authoritarian and all human rights-absorbing regime. I would also like to thank Mrs Barton, Vice-President of the IM-MER Association, for the very important research work that has been done there. Finding out most of the victims' names alone was very, very difficult. It is also important to mention that most of these 10,000 Austrian victims have been elderly single women. The work done by the association IM-MER is also linked to a current very important task, namely, human rights work and the promotion of civil promotion. I believe that in times like this we can never have enough civil courage, therefore a truly warm thanks for the important activity of the association and the introduction of the citizens' initiative, which has been fruitful here in the house and will also continue to produce fruit and, hopefully, will soon be implemented in real political terms. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15273	Next speaker: Mr Mag. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15295	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have again dealt with petitions and citizens' initiatives on the most diverse issues in the last Committee on Petitions. In the petition number 62, for example, we are dealing with the basics for the award and recognition of honorary doctorates at Austrian universities. It must be said in advance that, within the framework of their legal autonomy, universities must have regulations on the award and also the recognition of honorary doctorates in their statutes. The background to this petition is the recognition by the University of Salzburg of the Honorary Doctorate of Konrad Lorenz. With this petition, the FPÖ takes up the case of an internationally recognized Austrian scientist who has won the Nobel Prize and makes an independent decision by a university that has made it within the framework of its autonomy. The choice of words in this petition, however, also gives her a deep look into the blue soul. One can discuss all decisions, but the question is always, in what way. In this petition, I feel that there is little value in dealing with dissidents, with other opinions. By designations such as “academic dwarfs”, “an inexperienced student spokesperson”, “a theologian who has not shone through great successes (...), decision-makers are cut off and vilified, and that is certainly not the way in which, in to be discussed. Such decisions can be viewed as critical, and the process can also be discussed in particular with regard to any case-by-case effects. Such a discussion may also bring about a more objective way of dealing with the past, and any events can always be seen in the light of time. A subsequent assessment carried out with the wisdom of retrospect will usually be different from an assessment at the present time, but it must not result in an insolence or an exaggeration. It's important how to deal with it. Are we trying to polemize, instrumentalize, or are we trying to make as objective a representation as possible with facts and facts, information on events, and above all on the consequences and effects of events, in order to get knowledge of current developments and to base its own decisions on them, in short, to learn from the past? Another citizens' initiative is to preserve historical ensembles. – Not for nothing we are proud of our historical buildings! So there is also a citizens' initiative. Many of these buildings come from other times, from the dark Middle Ages, from Absoluteism, from times when human rights, education, democracy did not have any or any other appreciation. They are thus stone witnesses, monuments to do what the name already says, to stimulate thought, and must be preserved for that reason. Finally, a few words on the Citizens' Initiative No. 83, which concerns the establishment of cross-district conciliation bodies for rental rights throughout Austria. The Ministry of Justice and the Stadtbund correctly stated in their opinions that this is not as easy as described in the Citizens' Initiative. In addition to constitutional concerns regarding competence, it is mainly a resource problem which would affect the communities. Setting up a conciliation body requires specifically trained and trained staff, and the financing of this additional burden is also questionable in the case of Weitem. I do not think that it can be the right way for the communities to get even more costs and even more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15343	Next speaker: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15364	Mr President. Love Seers and See you here in the house! Dear spectators in front of the TV devices! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much for the huge number of citizens' initiatives we get into the house, which make us more aware of specific problems in the most diverse realities of life. I would like to take one of these explicitly today, which is to open up with regard to voidness. This initiative reflects the current housing situation quite well. Apartments are simply not available in some regions or in other areas of Austria far too expensive. A monthly rental of 800 € cold for 70 square meters is usually not affordable, whether you are 22 years old and single or have a child and perhaps is mid-40. We also think of own resources of €35 000! Without indebtedness, this is actually not eligible for funding. A correct approach, I think, is the idea of the emptiness levy as required in this initiative, quite simply for solidarity reasons, in order to create as many people as possible the right to their own four walls. There are many apartments. Once free, for months, for years, and in return, some people are looking for cheap apartments. I also think that it is very central to finally devote housing aids. I am really annoyed that these funds, which come from the covenant and in reality from all of us, are not used accordingly or wrong. Similarly, there is an urgent need for a rental right reform. For a long time – and we all know that – the monthly rent no longer corresponds to a quarter of the monthly income. This is nothing that is somehow so particularly fictitious, but that is a goal from my point of view to which we want to come back. It's not fair as it is now. Especially in the private area there are landlords who calculate any surcharges, in addition to the situation that are just far from any reality. I hope, eternity later, that those who are still on the move will finally join our proposals, namely the proposals made by our building spokesman Ruth Becher, universal rental law – that would ensure transparency and that one would not be dependent on the good will of the landlords –. The young generation in SPÖ also supports this. We have also brought a citizen initiative to the house, namely, “citizens live now! ” It is true that people, whether young, middle old or older, can no longer wait, as this initiative shows. You just have the right to do so, and it is also our job to create affordable own four walls. So to those who still keep: Please move, please! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15410	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15431	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased about the citizens' initiative Fair food; perhaps it still needs the additional fair domestic food. I believe that this is the right definition for this citizens' initiative, because it is ultimately about how we can place our domestic food, the transparent food produced by our hard-working farmers on the market with a lot of effort, on the market as well. Ladies and gentlemen! I feel confirmed by this because it was we who started such initiatives ten years ago. I remember the year 2005, the initiative taste of the home country. It was a big campaign, together with a small-format Austrian daily. We have also succeeded in winning the journalist Günther Nenning, whom you all know, for this initiative to write contributions and point to the value and benefits of our farmers. The next action was then So tastes Austria. The third action was in 2008 when the financial crisis began: Buying home secures jobs. We commissioned a study at Kepler University that just says – I think that's still the same study –: 10 percent more domestic food save 10,000 jobs, save 10,000 jobs in Austria. I am pleased that there is now this broad initiative, which hopefully does not abuse Party-politically, but is actually being implemented by Parliament across all parties, so that we can offer our consumers genuinely local, Austrian food at fair prices safely and transparently.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15476	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15498	Mr President. Appreciate High House! The report contains a wide range of petitions and citizens' initiatives. With this direct and democratic right, we enable and strengthen the introduction and treatment of opinions in the parliamentary process. In the last few days, it has again become clear that direct participation, direct opinion – I am thinking of the member survey on CETA – has been taken very seriously and intensively by the population. I would therefore like to thank from this point of view all participants who have contributed to the important topic of CETA. The debate on citizens' initiatives and petitions has addressed a wide range of issues that have been dealt with in the Committee. The range of topics includes, for example, the financing of childcare, the setting-up of conciliation bodies for rental rights matters, the maintenance of ensemble protection, the minimum noise of vehicles, the Uhudler theme, the tobacco law, fair food, the best bidder principle for regular bus calls and much more. I would perhaps like to address the 80 citizens' initiative, which calls for fair food. This citizens' initiative addresses the designation of origin for food. As has been said, the citizens' initiative has more than 12,000 signatorys and now has about 50,000 supporters. For us, healthy and fair food is an important health policy issue. Austria has a very high legal standard of production, we can really look at our food with pride. Nevertheless, we must maintain the high standard or expand it according to technical possibilities. Labelling, especially in the food sector, ensures information and protection to consumers also against diseases. It is important to strengthen domestic products, to expand regional products. We see this as a strengthening of the regional economy, which also creates jobs. Healthy foods are an important topic for us. Healthy foods also require healthy and fair cultivation and also healthy and fair production. The SPÖ supports this introduction, and with the allocation to the Committee on Agriculture, it is now on the train.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15531	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15552	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear audience at the gallery! It's like always: The Committee on Petitions shows the mood in the population, shows how laws affect, and shows where action may be needed. I now go into three citizens' initiatives. The first citizen initiative to which I am referring concerns the issue of ORF, which has already been discussed here in the House today. It deals with the denationalization of the ORF, with the abolition of the ORF fees et cetera. We of the ÖVP have already said it clearly today: An independent ORF is important to us. We also stand for a variety in the media landscape, we do not want media monopolies in this country. We also know that the ORF is financially difficult years ago. The new management of ORF will be measured in terms of reform and the way in which it deals with the finances. The aim of this citizens' initiative is to abolish the ORF charges. We do not want this from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We mean: It needs an independent, strong ORF, it needs independent, strong journalists, and they must also be equipped accordingly. Therefore, for us, the ÖVP is not an issue for the abolition of the ORF fees. But I also say: For me, an increase in fees is not personally a solution to the mystery, but it is to be addressed to the management of the ORF of the appeal, with corresponding reforms to bring the ORF into a good and, above all, independent future. Another citizen initiative deals with asylum policy, namely: What about asylum policy in our country? – Just briefly: We all know the European situation, and we all know the Austrian situation. I believe that the Minister of the Interior and also the entire Federal Government will take the right steps in this area and have already taken it. I just remember the upper limit on asylum. But I also remember the regulation to be adopted shortly when it comes to a new asylum legislation. However, the issue of minimum security is also part of this citizens' initiative. So you can see: There's a need for action. There must certainly be a lot of moving in the high house. The last citizen initiative that I am considering is the Austrian high school. This is about reducing the ÖH contributions. In my opinion, the ÖH, as well as other stakeholders, has the task of representing its member interests. I think this works very well with the current ÖH contribution. As you know, it is currently 18,70 €. This even involves a small contribution to accident and liability insurance for students. Most of them go directly to higher education, i.e. 87 percent, and only 13 percent go to the ÖH Federal Office. From our point of view, this contribution of €18.70 constitutes an appropriate contribution to the implementation of the statutory functions of representing interests. The funds should also be used properly. But I think that something like the Café Rosa could be saved in the future, which is not an appropriate use of membership contributions. One should avoid such things in the future. But in principle, in our view, the ÖH contribution, as it is, is appropriate. Nor do we want to reduce this contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15598	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15619	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian bus companies and their employees transport around 670 million people per year on regular services. This area is therefore very important as an economic factor, but also as a transport policy. The 88 citizens' initiative – which has already been mentioned several times today – calls for the best bidder principle to be applied in the case of regular bus calls instead of the low-cost bidder principle, quality and social standards, as well as a mandatory transfer of staff in the case of regular bus calls. Ladies and gentlemen, public transport calls are increasing in Austria. The federal states and their transport associations – for example currently Lower Austria – are writing out more and more bus lines for future operation. The train usually comes with the cheapest bidder. This type of competition is usually at the expense of employees, quality, older employees and in many areas at the expense of safety. International experience shows that pure price competitions are carried out through wages and the working conditions of the staff. This development did not want the Members here in this House either, and therefore a committee was already decided in April 2015 – it was unanimously decided at that time – that the Federal Minister should draw up a guide for the consideration of social and quality criteria for public bus calls. This guide is already available, but it is currently not applicable in some areas because there are regional authorities that do not have to comply with it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Petitions has allocated this citizens' initiative to the Constitutional Committee. I think it is worth further discussion. There were also three opinions on this subject, two of which were more supportive. I was somewhat surprised by the opinion of the Federal Minister for Finance, which states that the anchoring of the best bidder principle brings financial additional expenses and therefore rejects the demand of the consignors and the signatorys. That means there is still a need for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15658	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15680	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can go to the petition today. Speak for the preservation of historical buildings and ensembles in Vienna. One important point here is the preservation of the Art Nouveau building in Steinhof. For two years now, we have been consulting this petition in the Committee on Petitions, with the result that without a request from the city government of Vienna – the red-green coalition – there is no way that we can protect the World Heritage Site in Steinhof. From this point of view, I can only call on the red-green city government to make such a request for recognition as a World Heritage Site in order to take account of these historical buildings and ensembles in Austria – in this case in Vienna – accordingly. We want to maintain Otto Wagner's work in the future, and we reject the fact that in recent years the construction of various buildings at the edges of this ensemble – through the construction of administrative buildings, now also of residential homes and rehabilitation centres – has put ensemble protection at risk. IMOS Austria has therefore said that it urgently needs such a request, it is necessary that this work be preserved by Otto Wagner. Therefore: Let's go after that! I can call on the city of Vienna to take this into account at last – for the protection of historical buildings in Austria, for the protection of Austrian ensembles and, above all, for the protection of Otto Wagner's work.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15713	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15734	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. In my remarks, I refer to two petitions: petition number 55, rescue of the regional protected Uhudler, and petition number 76, practical solutions in the registration of associations and volunteers. Both petitions show that the concerns and needs of the people here in the House are taken seriously. We have already taken appropriate decisions on both issues, including the applicants concerned. The Uhudler has been a cult drink in the south of Burgenland for centuries. He is also responsible for creating and ensuring jobs that remain in the region's value added and that there is also a flourishing tourism in that region. To the Uhudler it is to be said that the state government of Burgenland has also become active with agricultural councillor Verena Dunst. Nine Uhudler reb varieties were included in the Burgenländer Weinbauverordnung. We have also decided here in the House in May of this year that further Uhudler reb varieties will be awarded as fruit wine. This is also the basis for the fact that approximately 150 Uhudler farmers in the south of Burgenland will continue to have the economic basis in the future. To the petition number 76, which concerns practical solutions in the registration of non-profit associations and voluntary associations, a few brief comments: There would be a decision very important, especially for clubs in smaller communities, because the clubs are essential cultural institutions in the communities, and the clubs that preserve the village life in the proverbial sense of life. I would also like to thank the 3.5 million volunteers in Austria for their numerous free activities in the associations of our country. I can mention that there are 4 900 clubs in Burgenland alone, with about 100,000 club members, and that there are more than 300 local fire brigades, with nearly 17 000 active volunteers. A warm thank you for this voluntary work done free of charge!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15780	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 1248 of the supplements on petitions No. 34, 55, 57, 61 and 62, 65 and 76 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 73, 78, 80, 83, 88 and 91 to 96. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues in the field of tobacco and non-smokers' or non-smokers' legislation (TNRSG). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Unrest in the gallery.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[18:51:56]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15847	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda item 1 so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding part of the Official Protocol. ‘TO point 1: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1814/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Pies- czek, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Presidential Election Act in 1971 (1257 of the Supplements). There is a demand for separate vote supplement I/1. Deputies Mag. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 1/1. The vote will take place at The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1257 of the Supplements, is adopted at second reading, taking into account the amendment proposal Supplement 1/1 in the presence of the constitutional number of Members in separate votes with changing majority and in third reading by a majority vote, in any case with the required two-thirds majority. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda item 1 (Annex I/2).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[18:53:50]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-09-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00144_d7e15913	I announce that in today's session the self-employed applications 1821/A(E) to 1856/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 18.54 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
