ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e6812	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning and open the 128. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 123 and 124. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: April 2016 as well as 125, 126 and 127. Meeting of 28. On 4 April 2016, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate and was not challenged. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Hackl, Mag. Hauser, Steger, Themessl, Dr. Franz and Doppler. [[09:06:31]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e6846	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 17 November, has been the subject of a resolution. May 2016 (...) Deputy Chancellor Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehnervom has removed the Office of the continuation of the administration of the Federal Chancellery and the Presidency in the Federal Government. At the same time, he has appointed me Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Constitutional Act.” The idea of the new Federal Chancellor Mag. Christian Kern and the new members of the Federal Government will take place in accordance with agreement at the tomorrow National Council meeting. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e6882	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Exterior Sebastian Kurz will be sent to MMag in the afternoon by the Federal Minister for Families and Youth. Dr. Sophie Karmasin-Schaller. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. [[09:08:08]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e6941	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Action plan ‘Safe Austria’ – measures to strengthen internal security’ Mr Amon is the first to speak. I would like to draw your attention to this: 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e6969	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have chosen the topic “Action Plan “Safe Austria” – measures to strengthen internal security” in order to debate it here at the current hour, because, in addition to the concern for the workplace and the general economic framework, there is no doubt that the issue of internal security – not only the objective security of the Austrians, but also the subjective security of the Austrians – is of particular importance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Both the Federal Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice and, of course, all those who are concerned with security issues in the House know about the current not easy situation. But what has been debated in discussions, for example, about the question of border management recently, and what has been presented on the agenda as a further highlight on the question of the border on the Brenner, I believe, has led to an impressive success in this situation – I would say so. I would like to congratulate you very warmly, Mr Federal Minister, on the fact that within a very short time, we are living in a truly rapid time when there is also a wealth of human change; They have only been in office for about a month, yes, about a month, and you have dealt with this problem directly, have gone to our neighbours, have also shown them the situation on the spot – you have succeeded in bringing home a very, very good European solution, namely that now also our neighbouring country Italy will carry out its tasks in respect of the Schengen area properly. [[Federal Minister Sobotka: Three weeks!]] I would like to congratulate you on this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is, however, so that I can avoid objections immediately that our safety organs would also be able to drive up the border management in full within one and a half days, i.e. close the borders in the sense that there can be no uncontrolled violations in our territory. However, as long as this is not necessary because the neighbouring countries fulfil their duties, we have the opportunity to keep the Schengen area open accordingly. I think that's a real and important measure. We have chosen this topic of internal security. Ladies and gentlemen, because a number of incidents have recently led to considerable uncertainty, especially in connection with the massive migration movement that we have been experiencing for some time. Although crime in the country has fallen by 1.9 percent last year and the education rate has increased, the number of criminal acts with strangers and strangers has increased. We must not only take note of this, ladies and gentlemen, but, of course, we must also set out measures to meet the objective but also subjective security of the Austrians. This requires, on the one hand, enforcement, on the other hand, legislation in the field of prevention, control pressure, investigations, judicial proceedings and, of course, in the context of external supply. That is why, I believe, Mr Federal Minister, not only from the moment on, but also from the content, it was absolutely right, together with the Minister of Justice, to present to the public a package of measures which would also meet these requirements. It cannot be that someone who comes to Austria to protect against violence will become criminal and violent here in the country. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, and also with all the consequences that the rule of law allows! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why the package of measures you presented, Mr Federal Minister, I think is right. In the follow-up to this presentation, it will be necessary to have a detailed debate here in the House and to take appropriate legal measures on it, e.g. when it comes to the possibility of using asylum seekers if there are appropriate surveys, especially in the case of criminal offences committed by asylum seekers. In the future, a standardisation of reporting obligations, especially in the case of sexual offences, will allow for action by creating in the Security Police Act similar measures to those we have already introduced for Hooligans. Of course, the question arises of how we deal with this when someone in this area becomes a criminal offence. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another proposed measure relating to sexual offences is – I think that should be discussed honestly, because it can help us in the investigations, and at the same time it is a preventive measure – that it should be possible to take a DNA test in the case of sexual offences in order to be able to take preventive action here. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is measures aimed not only at improving objective security but also at ensuring the subjective safety of Austrians. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The foreign exchange for the crimes we are dealing with here must be loud: look and not look away! The last point that I would like to address during this current hour, and which, I believe, is particularly important for the Austrians, is that, in connection with asylum on time and thus protection against direct violence against individuals, but also with subsidiary protection over the next few years, we are becoming more comprehensive and professional in terms of the quality of dealing with people we bring back to their countries. For the period 2016 to 2019, a target value of at least 50 000 foreign transfers may be assumed in this context. If we take the figures of the previous year and last year and take into account that there are massive rates of increase, because we are dealing not only with refugees within the meaning of the Geneva Convention or those entitled to subsidiary protection, but also with other migrants, then this figure is well justified. I can point out that in 2014 we had about 6 000 – exactly: 5 934 – foreign transfers and in 2015 8 365, of which about two thirds were on a voluntary basis and one third were involuntary. It is necessary to put in place a number of measures, such as the need to force the support of voluntary return, the introduction of a step-by-step return aid, which makes sense in the sense of consulting, in the sense of taking over the voluntary return. This is a measure that makes sense and is well invested in financial resources. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the measures presented and proposed by the Federal Minister for the Interior, together with the Minister for Justice, are well balanced but appropriate to the difficult situation. In this sense, I hope for a constructive debate in the interests of the security of Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7038	For a preliminary opinion, Mr Mag. Sobotka. Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7060	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! Austria, and that's how our countrymen see it, is a safe country. Nine out of ten Austrians say they feel comfortable here, not only as to the quality of life, but above all they feel safe. This can also be done very well through a monitor, a comparison of the crime statistics from 2004 to 2015. If there were 645,000 crimes in 2004, it was less – there are still too many – in 2015 – that is, 517 000 crimes. And from 2014 to 2015, the crime rate fell by 1.9 percent. However, we already see in the first months of 2016 that the number of different forms of crime is rising and there is an overall increase in crime. And it would be the greatest and most important task of a Minister of the Interior to consider with the experts how we can stop this development and continue that good result in 2016, which in the years 2004 to 2015 was also achieved by successful police work, but also with the help of civil society, or how we can reduce the currently noticeable increase to a reasonable degree. We know that, in particular, the number of violent offences, the burglary thefts and small body injuries is increasing. We look at this very carefully and note that the urban areas in particular are particularly affected. We also see, however, that asylum seekers and asylum seekers in particular have a particularly high number of attacks in individual agglomerations. In particular, Vienna has become a special hotspot and a special focus in neuralgic places. It will therefore be necessary for us to pay particular attention to the urban centres in particular. We have therefore decided, together with the Minister of Justice and also with the Minister of Defence, to present to people the action plan “Safe Austria”, which consists essentially of five parts, which must be dealt with in different intensity. This is primarily the prevention work. The prevention work must be in the foreground of all our considerations, because we want – and this is the task of the police – to suffocate and prevent offences in the germ, which is very important, not only for statistics, but also for raising subjective security. people's feelings. Although the number of offences has fallen significantly, the subjective sense of security has not improved. When we get the Burgenland where there is the lowest crime rate and the highest number of police officers, but people have the worst sense of security, we see that we have to start especially in prevention. However, we also need to show a clear sign of the two pillars of investigation and control pressure. In this regard, I have agreed with the President of the Police of Vienna, the Land Police Directors of the other federal states and the Director General for Public Security that, in particular with regard to Vienna and the urban centres, we are intensifying the control pressure for the individual real focal points. In the next two weeks, the various measures will be presented. You know the neural points in Vienna, which is the Praterstern, which is part of the Schwedenplatz, and that is above all the broad line at the U6. And what we achieved at Linzer Bahnhof with a very clear police deployment strategy will also succeed in the other urban centers. As the fourth pillar, it is essential that the procedures be accelerated, for which we also need a clear contact with the judiciary. They all know the tragic case where a Kenyan has committed a crime in the well market, which has already had a record of crimes, but has never been removed from traffic, so almost never been detained. Thus, we no longer had the opportunity to recognise this in prevention accordingly. The intensifications are therefore very crucial for us on a legal basis, in order, in particular, to achieve a faster settlement of criminal proceedings, because many of those who are sentenced in the first instance and go into recess then dive under. In order to prevent this and to be able to take criminal acts into custody, the Foreign Police Act should be adapted accordingly in autumn. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of SPÖ and Team Stronach.]] It can't be that we still accept that people who, although they are condemned at first instance and thus not yet legally, are simply subjugating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] An essential moment is the fifth pillar, that of the repatriations – perfectly right. Security spokesman Amon has already said that in recent years we have had an increase in the number of returns. In the case of Kenyan on the well market, for police reasons, we have requested the Embassy to obtain a home travel certificate. We delivered all retrofitting papers. The message, however, refused to provide information. Only after the tragic case – the Kenyan would have been ready for deportation – did the message actually respond and a home travel certificate has now been issued for others. And this is a very crucial moment for us. Returns can only take place, and you all know that if we have the necessary home travel certificates. And I'm asking everyone to help us get home travel certificates. I would like to take every initiative from every political group, every party that helps us get home travel certificates. You are most welcome, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – You can also speak. It is true that in 2015 we were able to move back 8 355 people, and we see that the voluntary return is the decisive one. The voluntary decline and the voluntary return transport are the very crucial point for us. It's shown, that 2 785 shifts have taken place in 2016, this is an increase of more than 30 percent. We will continue this consistent policy, but we need the legal basis for it. A second point is that about 46 percent of the inmates in our prisons are Austrian citizens, while 54 percent are not Austrian citizens. 21 percent come from EU countries, while 33 percent do not come from EU countries. And there is also the initiative of the Minister of Justice to bring these ladies and gentlemen back to the countries of origin with police measures so that they can pay their remaining penalty. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vavrik.]] Then it will also be possible to take people in more intensively and increase the pressure of condemnation again. This is this five-part draft paper, which begins with prevention very much. It is also about the other ministries – the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs – sharpening their action plans so that we can start, and that must be our goal to prevent crime. Police education and prevention work are an essential support. I am looking forward to the discussion, to your contributions, because I believe that if we can, together, each of us, from his point of view of things that are still illuminating by the various sides, we can link a package that can be presented to the Austrians as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, security has no political colour, but security has only one intention, and that is Austria. In this sense, we are all obliged to make our contribution to the security of our countrymen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7181	I will now draw your attention to the fact that all other participants at the current hour have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7205	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! A very sensitive discussion, a very delicate discussion, but let me begin by saying: While we are happy on the one hand that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, every single crime is always too much. If we look at the development, it is right, as I believe, that we take up the issues and try to solve them together with the affected departments, namely internal and judicial authorities. And I tell you, the Austrians, we all have no understanding at all when someone comes to us, uses our solidarity aid and then becomes a criminal offence here. This must be rejected with all clarity, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We also need to have the debate on where we can start. I'm very excited about the discussion. We always invite that we conduct this discussion very widely. We will see who will have a problem with these things again. But I would like to point out one thing – and this has nothing to do with you now, Mr Federal Minister, I have been representing this opinion for many years – namely, how we are working hard with the European Union, and not only in Fra- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I held this discussion with many government representatives and politicians in Brussels. We cannot always wait for us to solve something together, even if it is important, otherwise the events will overwhelm us, but we must simply try to achieve this at national level of a solution. That is true, ladies and gentlemen. I wonder – now I start from behind, Minister – what an EU foreigner is doing in an Austrian prison. We have been having for ten years, I believe, all possible agreements, according to which criminal penalties should be paid at home from other EU countries. We have already tried more than a decade ago to resolve this question beyond the EU countries. This was solved and would also have to be solved. In particular, we must pay attention to the external movement by all means in terms of understanding the measures proposed. I do not want to repeat the figures which the Minister has now mentioned, that is fact; but, Mr Amon, we must start with the expected figures. Every diplomacy is required, it is required of the general state and, if you want, the European Union or the international community of states. No one understands! I don't understand either. At some point, the rule of law is also disintegrated. And if there's a negative knowledge, it's just like that. We have this commitment to the Austrians. It does not matter if every political group is constantly expressing its opinion here, but I believe that it is recommended that, in the interests of our homeland, in the interests of the Austrians, we pool the forces and solve the problems ahead. Let me also point out, Mr Minister, that: We also need to discuss this with the judiciary. I personally have been annoyed for many years that valuables in this society are rated higher than body and life. Life is the highest good. If I look at some of the judgments, I wonder what development we have taken; even if we have adapted it first – then you have to adjust it again. We must do everything we can to prevent such sad events that such crimes as they have been committed lately, in terms of the security of our citizens, and finally of society as a whole. This is our common task, and we all have to get there together. We all know that you can't prevent everything; but you have to say, I think, with good conscience: We have created the necessary framework conditions for the work of the police. I would like to point out that the crime figures have fallen over the last ten years, and I would like to thank the police officers for their first-class work. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] We should thank them again and again, even during such discussions; I am really happy to do so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say, I really invite you all: In the interests of our people and of the state, let us try to lead the discussion that is now coming to us, Mr Minister, very objectively and objectively, because I think people will also thank politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7290	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7311	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! “Only those who know their goal will find the way.” – That’s what the Chinese philosopher Laotse said, and I think that’s quite clear what our Federal Ministers have done here. The objective of the action plan of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice is clear: more security for Austria. The way forward has been defined by the Ministers and the set of measures has been intertwined. I expressly welcome the following points which I would like to make to you. Even in the case of first-instance convictions, it is a very essential step to signal the offenders that these crimes are not accepted in Austria. The second point is: immediate DNA decreases of accused persons in all sexual offences and not just in intents with at least one year's penalty. And thirdly, the reporting obligation for suspects in sexual offences. I think that is an essential step towards protecting women in particular in Austria. It is absolutely necessary that a foreigner who has become a criminal can be rescinded. No one, nor a refugee seeking protection, can expect support and reception in Austria if he does not comply with the laws, especially the criminal laws. There is a need to clearly demarcate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, you know the example of the blood attack on the well market. A confused homeless, a Kenyan, hit a Viennan on her way to work with an iron rod. I'm shocked, upset and sad about it. We must be safe on our way to work! My deepest compassion applies to family members and friends. Our Minister of Justice, Brandstetter, has kept a cool head and immediately launched the Soko well market. The Special Commission is currently examining whether administrative failure has occurred in the run-up to the blood attack. The interfaces between justice, police and possibly other authorities, such as health authorities, are well-informed. Here, too, I expect the Special Commission to inform myself of the need for action. The aim is to ensure that criminal offences are fixed in the safety net of the authorities and cannot slip through. We therefore need better networking of our authorities. And be sure: All that is necessary, we will implement here! I think each one of you should be ready to support these intensifications and measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Let me come to a point of the comprehensive action plan “Safe Austria”: More than half of the inmates of our prisons are foreigners, 21 percent are from the EU, 32 percent from other countries, and the number in detention is even higher; stand 1. We have 74 percent foreigners there in May. Ladies and gentlemen, this has to be thought of, of course, not only in view of our problems in the execution of punishment and the costs we have. The EIA's answer to this point is quite clear: In the future, offenders are to lay down their punishments in their home country. Justice Minister Brandstetter will do everything we can to preserve these agreements in the short term, if they do not yet exist. We need every support from the State as well as diplomacy. Ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome the preventive measures, the information offensive and information campaigns in the field of social media, such as those in Afghanistan, which are to be expanded. Wrong expectations, hopes and information lead to an increasing number of people moving on to Europe, under false conditions, because they hope for a better life and above all because of the reasons from which someone is aylene right. We don't have that. Those who are entitled to asylum according to all their legal basis should receive asylum, but not those who cannot demonstrate these grounds of asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, the “Safe Austria” Action Plan is a close-up between justice and home affairs. Ministers will make every effort to implement it as soon as possible. It is an important part of the security of Austria. It's about to be implemented, it's about to shape. You're all supposed to be with me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7399	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7421	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, with all due personal respect, but that you really trust to join the speaker's seat here in order to sell to the Austrian population what has been demanded by the liberals and their own people for years and day and has been beaten by you with the expression "hetze" in the wind, that is what is going on! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have to stand by yourself – Mr Sobotka, I can speak to you directly and briefly ask for your attention –: [[a staff member of the Federal Minister Sobotka at the government bank]] [[Federal Minister Sobotka points with one hand towards his ear]] Is it not a hairdressing activism on the part of your group to come to the High House with these issues now, after twelve months of absolutely co-indebted and fundamentally indebted asylum chaos in Austria, with around one million illegally and uncontrolled migrants who have been thrown into the country with the help of the current Federal Chancellor through ÖBBBB and have been dragged by Austria, with 90,000 asylum seekers in the last year, 20,000 in this year – we will reach 90,000 again this year, have not included the family estate – in new forms of migration that shake us every day!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Hello-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] While your slogans are still going on in here, outside the House are raped, sexually harassed by Austria, murder and death, gang crime, knives are part of the daily event in Austria – and here again there are promises that we have been hearing for years and days, especially for a few months, from the SPÖ and the ÖVP, but nothing has been implemented. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian people were concerned about it as sovereign. People have heard enough promises, it has already been discussed enough about the so-called objective and subjective security, Mr Amon, has been discussed enough, about the dimensions, but has not yet been implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] It has not yet been implemented at all! It is not a question of dissuading our beautiful home country of Austria, but of addressing, analysing and acting on the problems that exist. However, the problems have been known for many, many months. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] I do not know how you will be able to break a current hour on this issue today when the Minister of State himself says in his introductory words: Well, nine out of ten Austrians feel safe! There's nothing going on in Austria anyway, that's all right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] What is the need for a current hour for a plan of action to strengthen internal security, Mr Amon? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is necessary to finally act here and take measures, but that would have been necessary for more than a year to put an end to all this illegal activity, especially through the uncontrolled mass immigration that has come under the cover of asylum over Austria, in order to face up to this crime! In empty words, with empty promises, nothing will move in this respect, we have already seen that in the Asylum Act, which was adopted here a few weeks ago. After this whole theatre about what I know, how much police need – 5,000 police missions in asylum quarters and around asylum quarters and also distribution centres, 13,500 officials working day and night, police posts closed across Austria, on the other hand asylum quarters that are opened across Austria – to make up and say here in all these developments: Well, we'll discuss this now; I'll invite you to discuss it, and then we'll do it sometime! , with that we are wasting every day again the time needed to finally move these people, these figures from Austria, which have been for years and days – for many years! – have lost nothing in Austria, because they are unwarranted here. [[Abg. New builder: Eh “alles Paletteti”!]] Moreover, the inactivity of this federal government will continue to feed those persons who become criminally active against our own people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] You have to think about what's actually being played here, what's going on here. Mr Amon, Mr Pendl, you are the main security spokespersons in your political groups. As legislators, they would have much to do in order not only to blow the march to the government with a legislative initiative, but also to take control of it and not to cover and turn off every miscarriage of that government and then to speak beautifully. Our home is too important for us! [[Abg. Amon: But also us!]] For this, too, the internal security of the Austrian population is too important – I am coming to the conclusion, Madam President – and the Austrian people will probably also, on every occasion, when you travel in the federal states, direct you to the fact that it is long ago time to act, and that this government has long lost the trust of the population. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7545	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7568	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If colleague Darmann is so afraid in Vienna, if he believes that Vienna is really such an uncertain city, then he should present evidence. [[Abg. Darmann: And the Greens defend the government again!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is it!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Ask the women, please! What's wrong with you?]] And then we ask the women, and then we ask the Ministry of the Interior, and then we talk openly about what happened at the well market. [[Abg. Hafenecker: In the Schickeria everything is fine, I believe you!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is crazy!]] For years, the police have known and the prosecutor knows that a dangerous man who is threatening men is increasingly perceiving through the streets of Ottakrings. [[Abg. Wheeler: Pilz is blind on the left eye!]] He's been there a long time! You can build fences at the borders, as many as you want, he's been there for a long time! If police and prosecutors had done what their duties were, they would have protected this woman from someone who was obviously a threat to public security. [[Abg. Darmann: This person should have been postponed long ago!]] I expect ministers of the Interior and Justice to explain to us why people in Vienna are not protected from obviously dangerous and in this case completely neglected and partly abandoned people. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You're talking again...!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Now they’re ‘ abandoned ’?]] We have a right to know! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And we also have a right to know why the Ministry of the Interior is probably right to say that the number of rapes has not increased in recent years, but it is still on a worryingly high level. One cannot rightly condemn, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, the attacks on the part of individual refugees and asylum seekers and demand sharp measures here, and on the other hand, if – and the majority of the victims still find themselves in the family and professional environment and not in the field of asylum seekers – women's homes are built, and demand that there be no public support for these important protective facilities for oppressed and abused women. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think that is a bad thing, and I think that is a bad thing for people and politics! If you were a national party, you would also care about the domestic victims to care for the women. That's not you. They're just an anti-foreign party, but not a domestic party. [[Abg. Darmann: Now you stop! That's crazy what you're saying!]] We protect all victims, no matter who attacked them. Letter Once you're in your blue stem book! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Darmann:... SPÖ! That's embarrassing!]] And when the next culprit first drinks with his friends and then – and this is notable – explains: “Now i ane burns up”, the Small Kalibergewehr picks up a 13-year-old student who breaks down seriously injured and still has health damage today, then he is rightly brought to trial, rightly condemned. But we can't push it off; it was a liberal councillor and not an asylum-seeker at the time – and that makes the difference. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] Before the law all are the same, and in such crimes we demand a sharp, clear and rigorous course of criminal justice. [[Abg. Darmann:... isn't that embarrassing to you?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] There's no question at all! If asylum seekers and refugees come to us and do not accept our rule of law and do not accept the rights of women, the rule of law has clear answers. No one is supposed to make illusions, there is no special forbearance, there is the clarity and strictness of the rule of law, and no religion and no origin and no reason for escape there is an excuse. [[Abg. Darmann: Most are displayed on a free foot, which are not even in detention!]] But if we want to prevent, then we need to know who these often are young men who come to us – hard traumatized, without trauma treatment, abandoned, ticking time bombs. We must be careful when they are already there that nothing happens, and we take care of it in good time: the culprit at the well market, some heavily traumatized young men who come from war areas. [[Abg. Darmann:... is a perpetrator-offering conversion! Talk about the victims, not the perpetrators!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... you can apologise for everything!]] – That does not excuse their actions at all. I want them all to be brought to justice that, if the rule of law so provides, they will be sentenced, their punishment will be punished and then postponed – and I am sorry that there are some who are unable to take the last step. Prevention is the most important thing, and if we do not create it – despite the Freedom Party – and if we do not create the protection of all women – despite and against the Freedom Party, then we do not only abandon the rule of law, but also the people. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] But we Greens are certainly not ready for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7843	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7864	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! To the “Safe Austria” action plan, you will find nothing on the websites of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, which I find to be quite interesting. If you want to read about it, then it is the website of the ÖVP that offers a little more information – that alone is already significant. Of course, we also know the background to this action plan: It is once again political marketing, which is taking place here, with the same bending of statistics, which we also know from the Stronach team, which we also know about the FPÖ. As proof of this, I bring you a quote from this ÖVP website, where the “Safe Austria” action plan reads as follows: “The refugee crisis is a reason for the rise in crime in recent months.” This also creates a direct causality between protection seekers and crime by the ÖVP, as we hear from other sides again and again. The basis of these claims is raw data, there are no secure statistics on this. In rising is the number of crimes that fall at best into the field of small crime, and you know that violent crimes... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] – You don’t have any data on it, you haven’t presented it, definitely you haven’t published it. The statistics of the last year show a decline in particularly serious crimes. Austria is a safe country, you have said that yourself. The “Safe Austria” action plan will probably not be able to change this decisively up or down. However, the phenomenon of felt crime exists, we must But do not forget that the subjective sense of security also depends on how we talk about things. Federal Chancellor Kern said yesterday that we must not defame “everyone who comes into our country as a rapist and criminal (...) – #feeltheker. If the Federal Chancellor says that, he will not simply invent it, then he refers to something that takes place. Look at newspaper-like media like this.You have headlines that suggest that a war is taking place in Vienna, and that is simply not the case. [[the speaker holds a page of a daily newspaper “Austria” with the title “Hotspot U6: Drugs, gang wars, citizens in fear”]] Of course, there is a difference between the FPÖ, the Stronach team and the ÖVP: The ÖVP is in the government and, of course, it contributes to the fact that this game gets something like an official dimension. The population is thus systematically or systemicly insecured, but at least arbitrarily and deliberately. In addition, tragic cases such as those at the Yppenplatz, as at the Praterstern – for non-Wieners: the well market and the Yppenplatz are the same – are of course not evidence that there is something changing in the overall statistics. Of course, every crime of one is too much, but Plattiude, according to which foreigners, foreigners, Austrians, non-Austrian people have to comply with the laws, are really unnecessary. None of them assumes that the right here would not apply to anyone. The ideas you now have in the “Safe Austria” action plan are, in fact, only about intensifications, stricter laws, stricter penalties, and it is not expected that this will be timely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Prevention would be much more sensible, but what you call prevention is primarily surveillance measures – look at the Police State Protection Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] In principle, it would be a good idea to solve the problem of prevention, but the implementation of the monitoring route is, of course, wrong. Mass surveillance does not work in terror – it has shown Brussels, it has shown Paris – but it does not even work in small crime. 160 new surveillance cameras were installed on U4 and U6 metro lines in 2015. Crime there has increased. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] After considering the statistics you are doing here, it would be necessary, as it were, to disassembly these surveillance cameras, to cause crime to decline if it increases when you mount new cameras – that is, the exact opposite. Finally, monitoring is not a prevention measure, it is a measure that contributes to the investigation work, and the question is whether this can at all be called prevention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. El Habbassi]] In any event, unsolicited mass surveillance is taking part in fundamental rights, and we should not go the way here to intervene in fundamental rights, but rather in places where prevention work is really useful: when people work with people. And if asylum seekers have a certain disposition, this also requires that we strengthen the use of social work in cooperation with the police, that we focus on secure data, secure statistics, that we have enhanced cooperation between police and justice, as shown by the case at Yppenplatz. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] The “Safe Austria” action plan is nothing but a marketing measure that addresses a problem you have created yourself by perpetuating yourself in this area. Statistics are used for the argument.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7966	Mr deputies, you have to come to a close.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e7982	An intensification of the sound that leads to an intensification of the laws, we certainly do not want that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8009	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8030	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions and here in the hall! You have now heard some dreams from my previous speakers, and now I would like to tell you something about the “Safe Austria” action plan that people outside feel and get along with it. In the direction of ÖVP it was said: Yes, it is necessary – and urgently necessary! – that we are making an action plan, because Austria has not been as sure as it is being proposed to us for a long time. Mr Amon has spoken here of the subjective sense of security to be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not feel stronger, but we should strengthen security! We should strengthen security officials, we should see that the executive has more rights again so that it can do its job properly and is also protected by politics. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be the right way! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to speak here in some cases of practice. The case has already been referred to here by the well market. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear failure to detect, not by the police – that is to tell colleagues Pilz from a police officer – but the police are doing their job, and they are doing them well. This case would not have happened if the prosecutor's office – that's what it looks like now – had heard the courts and responded accordingly to the police. But he wouldn't have happened if we had other laws if we had laws that protected people from such individuals. - I'll be there later. I would like to address a second case, namely from the city of Bludenz in Vorarlberg; I mentioned it briefly in the Committee on Justice last week. There are three former asylum seekers – all three from North Africa – who have not received asylum status and have a genuine designation of designation, a ban on entry into Austria, on the train against the creator. The police had to step in and tried to get these people out of the train. The police were spotted by these three people – North Africans, Illegales – that can be said quite openly. They were then attacked, so resistance to state violence was done, so a crime was committed, and police officers then arrested these three North Africans and took them to the office. There it must have been for the sexual harassment of a police officer by these rulers; one has unaccepted my knowledge before the official, and then the prosecutor has announced these three persons on a free footing. – Rightful residence ban, entry ban, criminal offences: Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong way, and then I understand that the population is not feeling correctly protected. This is not the case with the police, that is – in this case – the actions of the prosecutor's office – that will certainly still be examined – but this is also because we as legislators need to act differently and give the police more opportunities. When we consider that very, very many – and you said it yourself a few days ago, Mr. Sobotka’s Minister of the Interior – executive officials are massively attacked and the perpetrators are then almost as good as nothing happens, then it is not inviting for an executive officer to implement the laws, but he must always be afraid of getting away from the service no longer healthy or no longer at all. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be action! An ad on a free foot is certainly the wrong way in such a case. Let us remember the rapes at the Praterstern: The offender ransacked in the judicial centre, goes against an official who's getting hurt – and now she's getting an ad because she's got a gun and he's got blue spots! Ladies and gentlemen, you have to consider how we make the laws and how we protect our executives. I think that is a very important point. Nor do we need to wonder that more and more people are arming in Austria – not because they don't trust the police, but because they don't trust the legislator, and the legislator is here, ladies and gentlemen! That's why I've been asking for long waiting camps in North Africa, where we can bring such people who have nothing to look for in Austria, who have become penalized here, from where they can then go home independently or where they can stay until they take back their home country – and that has its reason! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Minister, you mentioned earlier that we should give you advice. I'll give you a tip. Morocco has been negotiating with Austria for 14 years to withdraw from Austria, and in Libya we do not even have a contact person – these are statements from Mr. Foreign Minister – so I think it would be necessary for us to take exactly these measures with these waiting camps. That would be a real step that we can support with little financial means, and so it would be possible for us to take these people away and protect the Austrians from them. That would be the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8098	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8119	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! On Thursday, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice presented the first action plan on “Safe Austria”, with the notes that criminal foreigners should be postponed more consistently and more quickly and there should be new arrangements for sexual offenders. They hope that this proposal will be adopted in July. – This is the goal of the two ministers. The starting point was certainly the two serious crimes that happened at the Praterstern and the well market, which are not to be apologised by anything, and I agree with colleagues Pilz that the crime in the well market could not have been prevented in this way, and in the light of the fact that the crime in 2015 has fallen, except – as the Director-General for Public Security said in the course of a press conference – an increase in drug offences and body injuries. Many young men who come to our country are involved, and these, according to the words of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, are to be brought out of the country faster – foreign criminals, but also EU citizens. What always sounds very exciting to me is that one wants to distinguish criminals in asylum seekers and asylum seekers. – Criminals of all nations who are here in Austria are to be sentenced according to the rule of law! I think that's a statement that everyone can agree to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You mentioned three measures, Minister of the Interior: Asylum seekers should be detained at first instance after they have been sentenced. Mrs Steinacker also strongly supported this. But it will become difficult under the rule of law, because if we cannot bring these people out of the country in a row, what will we do with them in the push? – This should be discussed, and we are already very excited about the presentation we will receive from Minister Brandstetter. Another point is: In case of suspicion of sexual harassment and necessity, there should be a reporting obligation and an instruction by the police. – This is already practised in domestic violence, which must also be underlined. The question is whether we can actually extend this to suspects or whether it really requires a crime. The same applies to the DNA issue – for Austrians and/or foreigners – in the event of minor crimes. It's too vague for me. It's still well formulated and then debated. Then there is the discussion about the need for offenders to abolish their punishment in the home country. I quote from the same paper from which Mr Alm has quoted. It says, among other things: “We have a large number of offenders from the EU countries in the detention centre, which we could bring back without problems and put their punishments in the home countries. I am already in contact with some countries.” – Statement by Mr Wolfgang Brandstetter, Minister of Justice. That's good if he's in contact with the countries. At the moment, however, we have no legal possibility to implement this measure. That's where I'm excited how this will be reflected in the bill. The concept of security is a strange one, and it contains various components – that is what we hear from today’s discussion –: It is about the subjective perception, about the felt social mood and about political action. The reactions of the ÖVP ministers are certainly a mixture of both: a little bit of emotional policy. If Mr Amon said in his speech that he was concerned about employment, objective/subjective security and also border management, we can see how comprehensive things can be packed into this subject in order to make further improvements. Nevertheless, I can stress that Austria is a safe country, it must not be forgotten, and it also depends on how we talk about these things here in Parliament, how we discuss them and how we present them. I would then like to take the Foreign Minister's duty into account – really take it into account! – because he is responsible for readmission agreements, which he must discuss and negotiate in addition, because there is certainly no such goal in the European Union over the next few years. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker]] We have also decided on language courses from the first day in the last asylum novel. This is a first positive step, but nevertheless I ask the Minister for Integration to take care that language courses take place and for those people who are already in Austria are an employment. I support the prevention work and, above all, the voluntary return, but both of them were not yet a subject at this press conference.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8197	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8219	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have heard it today – Mr Pendl and Mr Amon have done this very well –: We must strive to have an objective discussion. If Mr Darmann comes up here from the FPÖ and outlines something like that in such a polemic way, I think it is already in need of information. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That was not Polish!]] [[Abg. Darmann: The truth hurts!]] Mr Darmann, where was the FPÖ last month when it came to adopting the sharpest asylum law in Europe? Where was the FPÖ? – The FPÖ did not agree! I already said it back then: It is too little to cry out and always to be against it. What we need are constructive proposals, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Italian writer Lampedusa said it: “If we want everything to remain the way it is, then it’s necessary for everything to change.” – I wouldn’t go that far, but I’m going to say we need to respond responsibly to the changed security situation with new current legal regulations. [[Abg. Neubauer: Wendehals!]] It makes sense for me – Mr Darmann, you can stay quiet here! – if Mr. Sobotka proposes that persons should be arrested in the event of a first instance conviction in the future. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He stays there anyway!]] That makes sense! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But you must tell the SPÖ!]] It makes sense for me when he suggests that in the case of sexual offences, a reporting obligation for suspects should be introduced and DNA samples taken. That makes sense, Mr Darmann! It also makes sense to propose that deportation be increased in relation to people without residence rights or that offenders from EU countries should pay their imprisonment at home. [[Abg. Darmann: Talking about it makes no sense! Act! Don't talk so much, do it!]] The crime of foreign suspects has increased, especially the asylum seekers, that we have heard today, only: [[Abg. Darmann: You all the time reject our requests or postpone your requests!]] We need to contribute something constructive, Mr Darmann, not just screaming, offering solutions! We, our Federal Ministers Brandstetter and Sobotka, offer solutions. These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen, and we must counteract these facts with all the means given to us by the rule of law. That is why justice and the Ministry of the Interior also require a bundle of measures, both in enforcement and in legislation. [[Abg. Darmann: In the Stronach team, however, this was a little different!]] If you do not comply with our rules and laws, you will certainly agree with me, you have lost nothing in our country, but – and I say so in all clarity, and this distinguishes us from each other, ladies and gentlemen – we need a sharp separation between the large number of people in need of help and the individual criminals. Willing people are fully supported, that is a fact, and they deserve our support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we must continue to work against all these criminals without compromise and to exploit all the means of the rule of law. [[Abg. Darmann: Then do it at last!]] Integration, Mr Darmann, will only succeed if the fear of alienation can be reduced. And this fear can only be reduced if the criminal manifestations of the stranger are not tolerated. That's it, that's the answer of a serious policy, and that's exactly what we're doing! Our police are doing excellent work under the most difficult conditions. If you're saying we already knew everything, I'm saying, That's not true. The quality of the crimes is different from the past few years. [[Abg. New builder: Listen, hear!]] This requires a national rethinking and also a rethinking in the legislation – and nothing else happens here. That is why I also appeal to you – as the Minister of the Interior has said: Security has no political color, security has priority in Austria! We must all take our noses – all the parties represented in Parliament – and discuss this subject together. [[Abg. New builder: (a long nose showing) That would be yours so long!]] In the case of all differences between the programmes and the main objectives of the programme: We owe this to the people, because only in a secure Austria will it be possible to allow a harmonious living together. I therefore call on all Members of this House to take the lead in the way of security and asylum policy. I say it again: Security has no political color, security has priority in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8408	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8429	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister Sobotka – I always have to look, because he's sitting on the right side! First of all, I can welcome the fourth class of the Mary Ward Volksschule from Krems and the students of the Volksschule St. Thekla from Vienna-Wieden – both classes of folk school are connected by a letter friendship and today I visit Parliament. [[General condolences.]] I also welcome a group of the Freedom Youth Ring from Eferding. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of ÖVP, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Welcome – politics live, you can't start early enough to be politically interested, even in such an interesting debate, namely on security issues! First of all, to my previous speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger sees how close the position is to the location. When he was still sitting there, he didn't go fast enough. [[towards the team Stronach wiesend]] Now it's all right. I can only say one thing about free movement proposals: This is like football – we liberals always deliver the steep template, and the others have to run to get into the penitentiary room and perhaps shoot a gate there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you have to practice a little more, and then it will get better for Austria. The European Football Championship is already approaching. Mrs Lueger: When she looked at and addressed the ÖVP package in her speech, I noticed so “rightly” the apostrophic new style of governance, of one another. – Her comments were just like that, and she did not say: My God, if this ÖVP is now making a security package, then we want to acknowledge it and we want to be glad that this is happening! – No, Mrs Lueger did not listen to this, because she said: I am already excited about what this will be like and how the Minister of Justice – even though the pushy himself is actually part of the Ministry of the Interior – will make it pushy! – Please, you will be excited to see how this new style will come back. For Colleagues Pilz: He spoke of traumatized refugees, of young men who are here and who have a trauma. He knows what he's talking about, because he's also involved with a trauma. The Trauma means: 22. May, a free Federal President, and not his Sascha Van der Bellen – in addition to many other traumas that he has already had to deal with here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One of the traumas that the FPÖ is about: He said something about women's houses, to the line of the FPÖ. . I would just like to remind you a little of the motions for resolutions of the liberals, all of them by Mr Schimanek and Mr Mühlberghuber. A motion for a resolution concerns the increase in support for women's homes, another multi-annual support agreement for women's homes and social associations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] – That’s how reality looks, colleague Pilz! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is the truth!]] That is the one side, and now I am showing you another example of the reality of women's safety. Linz Women's House: The entire staff has been terminated and rescinded with worse contracts. Who is politically responsible? – The green city councillor Schobesberger. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Preaching water and drinking wine!]] That's how reality looks, and perhaps you can get rid of the trauma a little more. By the way, what I notice with regard to crime statistics: Many of the candidate's followers, who are carried by a broad majority, because he is so independent, the former President of the Greens, do not find anything to do if one commits property damage if one commits theft. Looks like there's nothing in there everywhere. We are at the security debate, and I would be interested in the following: There is a quote from a very good Austrian actress, who said: But resistance must not be criminal, except perhaps very little. Mr. Federal Minister for the Interior, I would be interested: What is little crime? What's a little crime? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know only crime, there's only black or white and nothing else at all. To the examples you brought: You have to look at it. We have been doing this for years and days in this country: look at it; therefore we have the examples, and we have always made requests in this regard. But if we stand here and say, asylum seekers, asylum seekers increase crime statistics, what would happen? [[Abg. Darmann: (with adjusted voice) Hetzer! Hetze, hetze!]] - Intervocations: Hetze, hetze! If that is what the Federal Minister says, it is quite normal; then it says looking instead of looking away or similar things. Why, then, does crime statistics fall? - Because the police can't do overtime! That's quite clear: If the police's official hours are from 8 am to 4 pm, one will agree with the criminal union in such a way that they will start working after 4 pm. This is relatively simple, so it explains a lot of what police officers – and these are really on the front line that have to do with the crime every day. There are dozens of examples. That is why it is very nice, as finally the circle concludes that Mr. Ertlschweiger said that the police are doing excellent work under the most difficult conditions. Why the toughest conditions? – Because the Ministry of the Interior has so far done too little for the conditions to get better, and there you have to start. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not enough that every Minister of the Interior or every Minister of the Interior promises 2,000 new policemen, and that at every turn of office. – That would have been so far, since I was alive – three times 2,000 – and 6,000 new police officers. Actually, there's no one there yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8557	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8579	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen, watching us at the gallery! Above all, I would like to warmly welcome the young viewers to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday we heard an exciting speech about the new Chancellor Core – many of you have heard them, I think – who said that the government has only a few months to act to find concrete solutions to specific problems. I believe that it is not just the government groups that are called upon, but we are all, freely elected mandates and mandates, no matter what group, who are calling on us to deal appreciatively with each other and allow real solutions to be implemented together. Words, speech bubbles, symbolic politics – these are exactly the things that citizens in the country can no longer hear. [[Abg. Beautiful: (demonstrativ accompaniment donating) Right!]] I therefore take the speech of the new Chancellor Core very seriously. And I would like us here in Parliament to take these words seriously and make them policy. [[Abg. Beautiful: Very right!]] Austria is a safe country, I say not only as an elected parliamentarian, but above all as a woman, who is often on the road alone at night on Vienna's roads, who is constantly on public transport and who is also walking a lot on foot, even at night. [[Call:It was a safe country, it was]] [[Abg. Höbart: In which districts?]] Unfortunately, in many countries of the world, it is not natural that a woman travels home alone in the middle of the night or goes home and is safe. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No more in Vienna!]] This is a condition that we would definitely like to maintain and protect women, but not just us. [[Abg. Darmann: What the hell is this?]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I hope that we all agree, no matter what the... – Mr colleague, I have just spoken of appreciation and that we are developing solutions together. [[Abg. Darmann: The women in Vienna now have to avoid on taxis!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Then you also appreciate the women who are afraid!]] I believe that exactly this way of dealing with one another, that one is constantly chatting in between and that one is trying to make the other down, that is the wrong way. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Parliamentaryism! Parliamentary discourse!]] We have our criminal laws. If someone violates the sexual integrity of a woman, a man, or even a child, then he is brought to trial, treated by independent courts, and, thus, his guilt is proved. That's a good thing. And we will keep that together. It doesn't matter whether je-mand, who breaks criminal law, was born in Vienna, was born in Istanbul, was born in Timbuktu, in Belgrade or wherever: The criminal laws apply to all, and we will continue to maintain them together. There have been times when security has also been very strongly understood as social security, in which there have been many judicial politicians, but also local politicians, if there is massive impoverishment if real wages do not grow over years, then can and will grow over a short or long period of time especially small crime, then Grandmas on the street are no longer safe from a pocket robbery, because much small crime is there or will be there. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They are not now!]] It is all the more important to invest in prevention, but also in social security. [[Abg. Darmann: Which world do you live in?]] Because it is also important not to be silenced about major crime: We have all read about Panama's leaks a few weeks ago, as is a large-scale tax withdrawal, such as international corporations, but also individual rich people move their assets between Cayman Islands and any other countries and letterbox companies until they no longer have to pay taxes. We need to talk about small crime as well as about major crime, because if all of us were to make their fair contribution to financing and shaping our communities together and fairly, then there would be less room for small or large crime. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann]] In this sense, I ask all of us, beyond speech bubbles, for symbolic politics and things that may sound hard and good at first sight, but which are either not feasible or do not increase our common security, to distance ourselves from these things and to make constructive and sustainable policies also in social security. In this sense: Thank you for your attention and thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8780	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8801	Madam President. Federal Minister! I would not have needed the new Federal Chancellor core with his appeal for an objective discourse, because I believe that this should be a very basic thing in this Parliament, which is also a reason for the creation of NEOS. Mr Darmann said earlier in Mrs Korun's speech that it was 'parliamentary discourse', which would be done here by the FPÖ. – I did not feel it as a parliamentary discourse, I felt it was pointless populism and demagogy. I think it makes sense to discuss what is proposed in a matter of fact and seriously. That's gonna help. By the way, I have it at the same time – wait a minute! – did not find it very useful when Mr Pilz gave you 128. You know, it's been a while before the perpetrators gave it out of your ranks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann]] I do not think both to be a real and sensible discourse, I think it would be good if we were to deal with what the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice have proposed, consider whether this would actually help something, whether it is perhaps only symbolic or a marketing gag. I think that we should do this here in this Parliament and stop to focus on just some uneasiness all the time, but deal specifically with the issues. Mr Darmann, or Mr Rosenkranz, spoke: I also felt that this was the case with Mr Lueger, who suggested criticism on the part of the ÖVP side, which was justified on a number of points, and said: Let's discuss that! – This is parliamentary discourse for me, and that is what we should do in here: not immediately get out and overwhelm everything that is proposed, but together think about how we can improve what is useful in the proposals, which makes sense, which brings solutions. That's what we should do, we've been elected to do, and that's what people outside are expecting – not that people are making themselves up here and only do evil things. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Neos, Mr SPÖ and Mr Greens as well as Members of the ÖVP.]] So on the content: First, what? You have proposed, Minister of the Interior, that, after a first-instance condemnation, you can put everyone – that is, it's a little tricky – in a matter of urgency. They have also heard the criticism of the Bar Association Day that it is unlikely that it will not be possible to impose a blame only on the grounds of a first-instance conviction. I also see this very critically, but I understand what you want out on, I also see the problem that many who are first-instantly condemned simply say goodbye and go underground. The big question is whether we can do it with the U-port. There are appropriate ways of taking people into U-port if there is a danger of escape if there is a risk of further crimes being committed and so on, and so on. We must clearly see that there is no flat-rate condemnation here, that people then say goodbye and go underground. I believe it is important that, if there is a danger and if we see it, we respond accordingly. However, I still believe that we must be careful that there should not be flat-rate convictions about the danger of escape. The second thing you have proposed is to teach according to the reporting obligation in people who are identified for sexual harassment. I also mean that you are basically going in the right direction, because in principle I can do the question that we can do here with reliefs – and this is a relief as an investigative arrest – at least think that we are better than what we are trying to avoid, namely an exaggerated U-port, because we know that the people usually get out of the U-port more criminal than they did. That is, if this can be useful, I believe that this is an adequate way. For the reason, I was a little irritated: They said that young asylum seekers must be given a structured daily course. I am also of the opinion that I believe that this should not be regulated by the Foreign Police Act, but is a fundamental question, because if we give young asylum seekers a structured daily course, then the risk of them becoming criminal is far less. That's where we have to sit. As far as teaching is concerned, we must start much earlier, namely in the German and value courses, which are also offered by the Ministry of Integration. I would like to do more about this because I believe that it is very important that we start as early as possible and say clearly what is possible in Austria, which is not accepted in any way and will also lead to the consequences of criminal law. Regarding the question of the DNA of sexual offenders: I can also understand what you want to do with minor punishments. I also believe that we must be careful that we do not somehow raise a suspect cartel, because the big question is: What happens to this data when we come to it that someone isn't even suspicious? That means we have to look at the questions quite specifically. The Minister of Justice has meant that he will focus more on the need for citizens of other Member States of the European Union to pay their punishment in their home countries. I think that's right. I also think it is right what Mrs Lueger has said, namely that we are doing faster with return agreements with States which have not yet signed them. We from NEOS have very often suggested that we have to put pressure on the means of development cooperation. I do not understand why a state does not take back someone who has no grounds for protection here, who has become guilty of it. We need to find solutions in this regard. I think we need to discuss this objectively. I think it is very important that everything that comes in this context is, at least, in conformity with fundamental rights. This requires an objective and longer debate. And we also need to see that there are problems; certainly not in the mass, as it is partly presented in the media, but there are concrete problems. There are problems, in particular, such as this case in the well market. There is the question of what will come out of this special commission. I believe that we – I am coming to the conclusion, Madam President – have found some legal possibilities. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] That is, we look at what has happened, and then we discuss objectively and see that we find useful solutions so that we can handle the problems accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8886	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e8907	High house! Mrs Alev Korun of the Greens today has us as proof of the wrong policy of the Greens and as Evidence of the fact that politics was a real one, argues that it can move unlit on Vienna's streets, that it has not yet become the victim of a crime. – Of course, this is very positive, as I am very pleased. But there are people who didn't have as much luck as you, and I hope it stays with you so much that you continue to be so lucky and not to be victims of a crime. But if you look at the statistics, it speaks a completely different language. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Slow! ...!]] If you look at where these problems come from, then from the Greens you are also guilty of this miser – you from the Greens in the first place and also the SPÖ, who have been involved in this welcome culture from the very beginning, who have been involved in the fact that everyone, no matter who has stood before our borders, was simply allowed in. [[Abg. Darmann: That's how it looks!]] It was always to be heard in the media that they were for protection. You, too, have always said that this is a protection seeker, including the SPÖ. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] But no one knew, no one could know. How did you know that everyone standing in front of our door is a protection seeker, where there are thousands of miles away. Then they asked everyone who had been in here: Where are you from? – Syria, aha!, and wrote down Syria and let them all in. After that, one has come to believe that not even 20 percent have come from Syria. Nevertheless, they have been left in the country. In the meantime, we have a situation where even according to official figures from the Ministry of the Interior there are 92 000 people in Austria who have not lost anything here. The number of the dark is even higher. And that's what you're talking about walking through the streets unlit and that's proof that your policy is right? I'll tell you one thing: If we are not able to expressly bring these people back out of the country, then these problems will rise enormously, I can predict that – I am not a light-seen one – because simply a wrong policy is pursued. If you don't believe it, you just have to look at the fact that all the rapists who have already raped here who have come to Austria as asylum seekers have been arrested for less than three years. Do you know why that's why they get less than three years? – Then they are not excluded from the asylum procedure. I spoke to the ÖVP, the ÖVP has promised me that this will finally be halted, that at last a minimum of three years for rape will be introduced, that at last all those outside the country who will receive asylum under your aegis can be brought. And did I hear anything about the ÖVP today? - No! They come here with an agenda and have forgotten the most important point, namely, minimum penalties for rapists. No one can tell me that such a traumatized asylum seeker who flees from bombs, who is taken up in our country to which we give the hand, accommodation and food, is a protection seeker if the first thing he does is to rape someone. So if I had to flee, run around my life and take up in a foreign country, I certainly didn't commit any crime there – certainly not at all! – and no rape at all. What has been done here is that there have been people who have actually lost nothing in Austria. If you look at the world in this way, you have the impression that you want the brutality that exists in the world to spread the conflicts that exist in the world justly across all countries – I have this impression – by simply letting in unbridled people who want to come in. Unfortunately, we have a brutal world. We have a world where more than a hundred armed conflicts take place. We have a world where political Islam takes hold of world domination. That's what it looks like. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Exactly!]] There is a political Islam that wants to tear the world's rule and to which all means are right: Murder, homicide, rape, everything. And such people leave you in, uncontrolled?- Oh, my God! Have you ever asked? Is there a psychotest for people who want to stay here? I just had to make a gun ticket for a weapons possession card, because I don't feel safe myself either. There you are controlled for the heart and kidneys. You'll have to do a psycho test for hours. Have you ever done this to your friends coming? [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Have you ever done this in view of the way in which they think about women's rights, the way in which we have a separation between religion and state? Have you ever asked whether they accept the Austrian State at all, whether they accept us as Parliament at all, or whether their law applies before our law? [[Abg. Arbitrators: And?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] You should ask these questions once, not sitting together in any circles and reaching your hand and believing each other, then everything will be better. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Prevention means bringing the people who have lost nothing here outside of the country. That would be the first step, and I expect it from the new government.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9010	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:37:11]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9031	We now come to the current European hour on the subject: ‘TTIP Negotiations Stop and a NO to CETA. Fair trade instead of corporate domination!" The following Members of the European Parliament were nominated for participation in the current hour of Europe: Social Democratic Club: Karoline Graswander-Hainz, ÖVP-Klub: May. Othmar Karas, FPÖ Club: Harald Vilimsky, Green Club: Michel Reimon, NEOS Club: Dr. Angelika Mlinar. I welcome Members to the European Parliament in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I also welcome Mr Vice-Chancellor. We are going into the debate. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Kogler. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9083	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Yes, in fact, a current European hour is entitled to deal with the topic of TTIP and CETA, because it is now going to be the crucial phase with these so-called trade agreements, so-called “so-called” because it is primarily about investment agreements and, in fact, one has to call this more clearly – I think, it is not only about deregulation campaigns, but also about US major corporations, also Canadians, but at least Europeans. It is therefore not so much about North America against Europe or vice versa, but it is about very certain economic philosophies that are now to take place here. We mean, these are the wrong ones. There is enough for us to defend and improve. But now this is at a low level, and in reality this agreement will bring the total demolition of the mountain against very reasonable economic principles. So it is about the question of what economic system we really want to organize globally, and not whether – that was also written in the main book – evil conspiracy theorists see the evil east coast at work again. We have nothing to do with that. That's what I'm saying. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it is about the real issues of how we want to organize business and trade. The whole thing doesn't have much to do with free trade anyway. Get in the textbook! Where are we? – Mr Federal Minister, Mr Vice-Kanzler, who has a clear opinion on both CETA and TTIP as regards Austrian National Councils, as it is not much different from a de facto rejection. But Not enough with it: The Austrian heads of state – with whom we do not always agree with God – have adopted a binding opinion several times and last week – I am going to say what this is – in which both TTIP and the Canada Agreement are clearly held, and in this direction the debate is now going, and we want to debate it today also in the first place, not to give our consent, according to a certain constitutional provision which you are actually binding on. We in the National Council would be interested in how you deal with these de facto and legal ties, because soon the corresponding votes will take place in the Council of the European Union, in the Trade Council, and Austria, of course, plays a decisive role. It will not help much if you say that you are fighting a provisional application of certain parts of the Treaty; it is now also the debate as to how Austria is dealing with the contents of these agreements as a whole. I will address CETA immediately afterwards, because CETA is not really as bad and not as bad as what is obvious, which threatens us at TTIP negotiations, but can always be called the little evil brother of the TTIP agreement with fug and law; therefore it is now also right and reasonable to look at that. But let him be sent in advance: Yes, no reasonable person will have something against reasonable and fair trade, that's exactly our position, so you have to look at what's inside – and that's what we've done. Proposing ‘stand inside’ and transparency: Let us remember that the Canada Agreement – which is by the way, in the broad outlines since the end of 2014 – has been said to us for many years: Don't talk to me, stay out of it – you haven't even realized what it's all about – because if the agreement is there, you can see it and then we can talk about what's going on! Then it happened; and what happened? – Now you want to come, now the Members want to talk with you? – That’s not how it is, and exactly the same mesh would almost be yours – almost! – succeeded in the much worse TTIP agreement. That is why it is only right for us to discuss this regularly and in detail. It is not the first time that we Greens have taken care of it, but we really want to vote on this agenda since 2014; until recently, transparency and co-determination have not been allowed, but now it will have to be different, otherwise you will not get far in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wenninger.]] On this occasion: It is now also about the Federal Government, because – I have now mentioned the National Council and the national Heads of State Conference – in our view, the Federal Government must also advise you, say what you are allowed to do there or not. We will have a wonderful opportunity to debate this tomorrow, because there will be the new Chancellor's statement. The SPÖ has already guided you, as it were, against conditions – I think, even Klubobmann Schieder –: Well, if you put conditions at the new head of government of SPÖ, then keep the SPÖ conditions to your empire half in the government, and then TTIP and CETA will become a topic! - That's it! I'm also excited how the new Federal Chancellor positions himself. We're not just excited, we're going to go after this whole thing tomorrow, and we'll just feel it on our teeth. But if it is the case now that CETA is primarily to be considered, then we do. A few points: the famous and well-known arbitration courts or investment protection provisions that have now been – admittedly – a little remodelled. The second Fra- It will be possible, and in the context of the future, for regulatory cooperation bodies, which are also compatible, and which are constantly trying to influence legislation, at least on appeal,: Let us look at the precautionary principle, already at CETA! This is very important in the European environmental and economic constitution. Finally, the legitimate concerns and questions of the federal states and of the many municipalities when it comes to the possibilities of so-called generalized care. – All of this is tangled, you can only underestimate that, even at CETA. To the investment courts, as they are now called: Despite improvement, it remains completely undisputed that it is about privileged access for large corporations to the legal system. Not only do we say that, says the German Richterbund – I brought here the opinion of February this year, 2016 – because it says it has no reasonable basis at all that it would not be useful in civilized states – just as we do – and in the summary it is literally said that it is “the wrong way” to create special dishes for individual groups. [[Call the Greens.]] – If you want to praise... [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] – This is the German Richterbund after all. It is also the wrong way, however, because the independence of judges is not guaranteed, both in the order procedure and in the office. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This still has nothing to do with a normal court, but it is being tried to suggest this – by the Commission, by Mrs Malmström, and I think you have not yet quite emancipated. However, I have to add, first of all, that in recent months we have been shown to be able to debate in a reasonable way – but I am now referring only to your person – and second, that in the relevant councils you always note that there are special difficulties in Austria. I don't want to hide that. That wouldn't be serious. Nevertheless, the big questions remain, and they are either unanswered, or wrong answers are given. Let's continue: The precautionary principle is torpedoed in this basic structure, even at CETA, we see that the science principle should be advanced. What does that mean? – Now it’s sudden to prove why something could be dangerous, but it’s allowed before. Not that this is already in the contract, but this direction has taken! And that is exactly the wrong way, and that is something we have a lot to offer in Europe. In fact, it is about organizing investments and world trade in this direction and not at least tending to set up the trap; it does not fall down tomorrow, but it will slow down, and eventually there will be the cut anyway. Reasonable principles are not, as always claimed, globally enforced, but there is simply this run, this tendency to bring down the standards if we do not otherwise formulate these contracts. We do not need them in this form at all. We need a completely different kind of trade and economies. Why should we not fight for there to be a life, an economy and a trade without genetic engineering coming through the back door, because that is what it is about. Imagine that with these principles we would deal with the question of nuclear power stations! Yes, she has always been treated like this, and she has gone out the same way! The same applies to genetic engineering and others, so you have to say here: Be the beginnings! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This has nothing to do with the rejection of reasonable trade. The same applies to the provision of general services, where ties can be established up into the municipalities; and the mayors also your party, all of them in advance, and the national leaders are right to defend themselves at this point. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Let us, therefore, end with this succession of approval events: They cannot agree without further delay against Parliament, against the Heads of State or against the Federal Government – if they finally express themselves, tomorrow we will hear it – therefore: Get out of these negotiations, stop the TTIP negotiations! We see where this is going, my controversies will still explain it; that is the completely wrong direction. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] And as far as CETA is concerned, it is not just about saving a few small parts somehow and voting later, in three years, while the big sausage is fed before.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9217	Member, come on. To the final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9232	The CETA question is to be rejected and the provisional application to be made anyway, as follows. That's a clear road map. Please, confess!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9259	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Vice-Chancellor, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9281	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we have the situation that we all want prosperity and jobs on the one hand and that we have worked out in recent years, on the other hand, it is not only en vogue, but it is almost part of the Austrian identity – if I listen to the two presidential candidates – to be against TTIP, but also against CETA. It was addressed, but it inspires me less, but it bothers me when up to communities stand trojan horses and are announced there with posters, the community must be so and so TTIP-freed – as if the invasion came from Mars or with any liquids. I don't have to and don't want to make fun of this, because it's a reality in the Austrian population, but I'd rather consider what might be the cause of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] I believe that once we have to say that we should not do a Albania policy; I do not want to insult Albania, but I would like to remind you of this policy about 40 years ago when Enver Hoxha meant that one would have to do some kind of isolated autarchy, because this would improve if one produced all that one needs in the country. [[Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Kogler and Mr Hübner.]] The result was terrible as far as the prosperity in the country is concerned, one has recognized what has been recognized in Austria for a long time, that one can only succeed in a country focused on export, if one is acting. It has probably not been hidden from you, Mr Commissioner, that there were rules of play, and there were and are free trade agreements common constellations. [[Call the FPÖ:What?]] We have, I believe, over a hundred such agreements, and Austria has always benefited from all these agreements. Now, obviously, the problem is that we have planned free trade agreements with industrialized countries – on the one hand, with the United States and Canada on the other – and this is now causing such dramatic fears that I would ask you to consider a few: First of all: Faith Do you really think that the American major corporations or the European large companies are so focused that they really need the free trade agreements now? Did you notice that all companies with larger structures, such as Siemens or VW, or the Voest or vice versa, have European companies or Coca-Cola, long ago in Austria and in Europe, and operate according to these principles? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The standards are different in the USA and Europe!]] Secondly, Faith Do you really think that countries, such as the United States or Canada, are exposing their citizens' health risks or in another area? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lugar and Mr Schimanek.]] By chance, in the area of sustainability and environmental protection that you have so often stressed, have you noticed what problems VW currently has because the Americans of VW demand compliance not only on paper but in reality? [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Pock]] [[Abg. New builder: Then tell me what you want!]] Faith So you're really sure it's all the same standard? And thirdly, They always say that agriculture is so endangered and so on; we will discuss it. Did you happen to hear yesterday that milk prices have fallen dramatically and that this is justified by sanctions in Russia? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes!]] Did you not notice that if the Austrian agriculture is partly produced a multiple of what we need in Austria, is it somehow subject to export? I know companies that, for example, produce bacon or other products, want to sell their products over the Internet and have been asked in America to purchase relevant certifications at the Food and Drug Administration, which cost millions of dollars, because otherwise one cannot export. [[Abg. Beautiful: But this is the other way round...!]] They're small businesses. Mr Collegue, believe Do you really think that the big American companies have little Austria in sight? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] I think less, but I'm telling you, of course, what's clear: [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] Look, a free trade agreement opens up both parties opportunities if it's done well. It is clear that not everyone benefits automatically, and it is clear that everything does not remain the same as it is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] If you address the trade: There will be new opportunities, but possibly new competitors. Yes, do you think someone in the area is happy with a different situation? But we will – see my introduction: Prosperity and work – only if we place ourselves in international competition or if we say on the other hand, we do not need it; then we take other forms of quality in terms of living standards, but also less jobs in purchase. I believe that ladies and gentlemen – and I come to the end or to the transfer – both positions can be agreed. We need a good deal. A well-made agreement, I believe, also means that the EU should act otherwise in terms of transparency as regards the presentation of standards and investment protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] We have noted this often enough, but transparency has at least been improved, including our efforts. With regard to the standards, Mr Kogler, we have the "right to regulate" and the "right to regulate" means that each state can, in principle, define the standards in the field of health, in the social field wherever it wants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Even with the often quoted products – be it Tyrolean bacon, whether it be Wachauer Marille or something else – you can go with me on the way to making a labelling regulation, then in Austrian products really should be what is said inside. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] That is, as I believe, a good and honest proposal, nothing else, and we can also go the way. This is actually the point that I believe is crucial: They always reject something before it's finished. This is, of course, a part of the discussion or a problem in itself, because of course you can always say something. I say the American position in the negotiations is that and that. – Yes, do you think I or the EU can reject it? The EU can only go here and, when negotiating, ensure that what we want in the negotiating mandate is also achieved accordingly. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The contract is done!]] I would ask you to do one thing in the whole process: first, to complete the negotiations, then look at what is inside – and then you can decide, and then you must reject it if what I have said to you is not true! This is a very simple process: not to reject something before the result is established, but to stand by it because a well-made agreement is making use of us. [[Abg. Kogler: We already know that!]] I'll tell you once again: I am – in addition to some others – the one who fights for transparency, for standards and also for proper investment protection. Now we come to CETA: CETA is a somewhat more specific problem. One thing I must say honestly, Mr Kogler: I somehow understand your tactics – or those of others – to say that CETA is actually the smaller brother of TTIP, and now TTIP is introduced across the back door. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is not a tactic, that is...!]] However, it may also be that CETA is actually a very good agreement and that when it comes to introducing it, one understands that the agreement is a little bit of a positive bringingend, and that is why one should look at it. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] Now I tell you, and that was also part of the discussion, there is not only Austrian reality, but unfortunately – from your point of view; from my point of view, the world is a little bigger – also the European one. There were 27 other Member States who, as far as the agreement is concerned, say that you have also studied – including socialists – that: That's one of the best agreements. There is progress in this area for small and medium-sized enterprises. The core standards of the ILO are set accordingly in terms of labour standards. As far as the public procurement market is concerned, there is much open and opportunities for Austrian companies. [[Abg. Kogler: We have them anyway!]] Mr Kogler, the precautionary principle is, of course, misleading. This is not at all part of the Treaty; you know it, but you say it is at risk because you could hang it somewhere and hang it up and sue with it. – This is not true because it is otherwise contained in the EU Treaty, and it is expressly accepted. Now we could fight nicely; I would just invite you to look at that, and then you will be convinced. It is an interesting component once, when 28 EU countries say this, to say: They ignore the Austrian interests! - Okay, well, let me tell you. But it could also be that we should perhaps look at this somewhat more differentiated. I would also invite you to look at the rules of the game more differentiated. For example, I'm given by Greenpeace – I was on 13th. May in Brussels – I would not have voted against CETA, I would not have voted against it. So the title of Greenpeace is very concrete: ‘Mitterlehner does not object to CETA in the EU Trade Council.’ I transfer it to football: That's about like I'm saying, Austria has not won the opening match against Germany at the European Championship. [[Abg. Brosz:... play against Hungary!]] That's right, but it wasn't an opening game against Germany and it won't be one. The same is true here too: It was not a vote, it was an information on the subject, and therefore I cannot vote against it either. That is, I think, understandable. Second: I would also like to say that I would not respect Parliament's decisions or the results of the national conference. I noticed it in the minutes – you have hidden it somewhere else –: I naturally noted that there is a very critical attitude in Austria and that there are also concerns about provisional application in Austria – one thing that can be read out in the Minutes. [[Abg. Kogler: Right! We did!]] Now I'll tell you the further process, and I'd just invite you: Take it unspectacularly! Just look at it and tell me if I'm delaying or not! I have no competence there, the competence is elsewhere. The competence is likely to lie with another Council, or whatever. That's gonna be clarified. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The procedure is as follows: The Commission will now present the translated texts. The Commission will present in mid-June how to assess the agreement – probably a mixed agreement. Then, in autumn, the Council will decide - which is not yet clear - and then it will come to the European Parliament, and in our view the national parliaments, that is, you, will decide. - Yes? [[Abg. Kogler: Yes eh!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] You decide! Now I have to tell you quite honestly: That's... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] - Go, please! That's kind of a pair of pants and belts and safety belts and the like – there's hardly any better way of dealing with them, and so on. Therefore: From my point of view, this is a very clear process. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: How do you implement the decisions of the national leaders?]] Do not imagine that I want to gain time, I would respect Austrian decisions or anything else! It's clear once in a while. On the other hand: Mrs Glawischnig, you say that TTIP and so on, a negotiation stop would have to be decided and that was so easy. [[Abg. Glavisch-Piesczek: Yes!]] In turn, I can quote the example of football: This is about as if you were playing a football game at the European Championship and then yelling at the audience’s edge “free throw” or “Ippon” because it’s just a fight. Then they'll say: Please stick to the rules! [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You don't need to explain anything to me at football! I'm married to an ex-professional, you don't need to explain anything to me at football!]] The rule is that the negotiating mandate has been given unanimously, so you can once again take away a negotiating order unanimously. As far as provisional application is concerned, there is a Barcelona Treaty, articles, too, to be amended. Now I don't want to teach you, but invite you, just invite: [[Calls for Greens]] They are the qualified support in the field, also in the public. Let's go this objective way! Go the way for you to go from pathos and emotion once! Look at that differentiated! [[Abg. Kogler: Much fader than you can't do that!]] We almost found a way like this at a few points. And once you've found this, we'll also talk about the individual contents. Everything else, I tell you, is actually a gross deal with the chances of the Austrian population. I'd be hard to say, It's nothing, we don't need it! [[Abg. Kogler: No one says that!]] This would, despite all the experience we have gained in the past, exclude the possibility of taking out something good too. On the other hand, our view is that we are doing our work transparently and openly as far as standards are concerned. We need to ensure this, as does a reasonable investment protection that protects the rule of law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] If we do that, we may come together in the end. Everything else I think is a non-exhaustive discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9643	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. I would draw attention to the fact that in the further debate, the speaking time of all other participants in this current European hour should not exceed 5 minutes. I call Mr Klubobmann. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9670	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The expectations of TTIP, which were also the starting point, were that a comprehensive trade agreement between the US and Europe could create a significant increase in economic growth, jobs and prosperity. The first question is whether we already have a world in which free trade, export and all these things are possible, and whether it would be much more sensible in the details where there are still barriers to trade, which are disturbing to eliminate them, instead of going the way over a whole, so comprehensive agreement. Or to stay with the football comparisons that Mr Vice-Chancellor has so appreciated today: The question must be answered whether a combination of European football leagues with American football leagues really brings us more. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] If we were to add the New York Red Bulls to FC Barcelona, Bavaria Munich and all the clubs we have, the question is whether this is really the football viewer of the chair in front of loud quality – I don't know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] That is why I believe to stick to the example: Europe should trust more self-confidence in all these areas and become much more aware of its strengths. The EU consists of half a billion people who are also consumers. We have the world's highest gross domestic product per capita, and in the G7 round of the world's strongest economies there are four of the major countries alone. As a strong economy, for example, Austria is only not involved because we are too small a country. So it is only by this that Europe needs to ask itself whether it should not be stronger and more self-confident in all these global issues of trade and economic relations. Steel Tag: It is precisely at the world level that we are negotiating whether we should open up that Chinese cheap steel, without respect for environmental standards, without respect for human rights standards, without respect for worker standards, may also flow to the market at world market prices. We know that when this happens, we can simply record everything we have achieved in terms of environmental standards and what we have developed in terms of technological progress. At this point, too, we see that the question of global free trade is not so easy to answer, because it is ultimately about democratic standards in the Free Trade Agreement, legal standards, social, trade union labour standards, environmental and, ultimately, consumer and consumer protection standards. The task will be: Either TTIP manages to negotiate these standards in such a way that it is clear that our high level remains uniquely high in the global comparison. If this fails, I believe that the question must also be considered more critically or negatively. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] So far, we have the impression that this concept of trade barriers is important, that in future a global agreement threatens the danger that, because of the excuse that a trade barrier exists, and workers' standards, consumer standards, animal welfare standards, environmental standards, climate standards, all these things can then be removed. That must be prevented. Therefore, the point for social democracy is: We are not in ourselves against free trade, but we are not in favour of it either, but we are content-oriented and we ask for solution-oriented. So the question is how it is done. Unfortunately, the last two weeks have also shown a lot: TTIP-Leaks, the negotiating documents that have come to the public, or also the statements of Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Darci Vetter, who negotiates the agricultural chapter, which says in the interview that Europe must allow chlorinated chicken and hormone meat. No matter how we stand on the chlorinated chicken: I believe that this cannot be the way in which we imagine the protection of our standards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Now it's the Americans, you're right, of course, not leaving to define their standards. Our European answer must be: We're not going to let that happen. That also means that I come to what I think the discussion needs to be oriented. We have recently adopted a resolution here in Parliament – Matznetter, Haubner – by a broad majority, which sets out exactly what we want to secure, namely the standards, as already mentioned. We want to ensure that through so-called dispute resolution mechanisms, not the normal established jurisdiction is eroded. If this danger threatens, then there must be a better system, and if that is not the case, then one has to deal critically with the question. And we also want to say, just as the federal states say – it does not often happen that one can say here from the speaker's desk, the national leaders have adopted a completely meaningful opinion, but they are right – that the public services and public services are protected. That's what it's all about. If this is not guaranteed, we will face it negatively. If it still succeeds in protecting these things, I should be right. Unfortunately, it has not yet succeeded.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9763	Next come Mrs. Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9785	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, I think it is courageous for the Greens to initiate today a debate on trade agreements, where everyone in the House knows that we have been opening the TTIP reading room for three and a half months, and no one green Member has yet found it worth informing himself about these documents, reading them and working through them. [[Abg. Kogler: That for three and a half months...!]] The NGOs were also present on 13 March. April in the EU Subcommittee is very surprised that the Greens have not yet done so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Speaking of NGOs: I congratulate Greenpeace on the perfect marketing campaign TTIP-Leaks, where US companies can still learn how to market negotiations with a manageable surprise effect and little new products so perfectly, because everyone who works in the economy – unfortunately few of you – knows that maximum positions are being negotiated and that negotiating positions, negotiation proposals are certainly never a negotiation result. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] [[Abg. Kogler: Do something against this cagery for freely elected votes!]] Or, as Alexander Zens writes in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten): It must not be overlooked that NGOs such as Greenpeace also have self-interests, with supposedly spectacular publications you remain interesting for donors. – Yes, some want to be interesting, others want to distract, such as Dr. Drexel of SPAR, who, with an anti-TTIP campaign, is able to divert excellently from a judgment on price agreements for dairy products and a associated cartel penalty of €30 million – one of the highest cartel penalties ever imposed in Austria. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... don't tell him personally!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] The fact is that CETA is an excellently negotiated agreement, it has developed all its criticisms: the ‘right to regulation’, the regulatory sovereignty of the national states, the protection of investment New with procedural facilitation for SMEs, the safeguarding of public services, the provision of public services, and access to the public procurement market, as Canada has never given it. But probably have You can find out about CETA as much as you can at TTIP in the reading room. The fact is, however, that the 13. Negotiating round at TTIP has shown that our positions are still far apart and that we will certainly not – and this has been confirmed by Mrs Malmström, but also by our vice chancellor for a long time – undermine our limits at all levels. But the consequence of this cannot be that we are breaking down negotiations. We should have negotiated much more in the past, we would have saved ourselves a lot, and we should negotiate more in the future to exclude economic wars. Exchange is always the best solution! [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] Since the Second World War, Europe and the USA have had the world's majority in shape due to the two thirds of world value added; we have been able to establish rules that have been accepted by other countries. But this will change enormously by 2050, because we only have more than 30 percent of the world's value added. We will be forced by other countries, such as product standards, competition law, data protection. You will see when you read the TTIP documents, as often referred to in these documents on TPP, the Trans-Pacific Trade Agreement. The economist Felbermayr from the University and the ifo Munich also clearly shows with examples – Mr. Schieder, you have also mentioned it –: If China received the WTO status market economy in December, the rules on steel in Europe would naturally bend. It shows another example, namely that the renminbi, although not fully convertible, will be included in the IMF currency basket. Ladies and gentlemen, do not live in a bubble of soap! [[Calls to the Greens.]] Europe cannot press ahead with globalisation. I am a defender of regionality, of regional products and services, but Mr. Dr. Eder pointed this out quite clearly in the ZIB 2 last week: He and the Voest do not need TTIP, but his medium-sized suppliers from Europe would have a great opportunity. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Just as we must act on digitization, we must also actively meet the challenge of globalisation and take it as an opportunity. The next generation has a right that we do not put the head in the sand and let others shape for ourselves, but that we take the issue into our hands.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9911	Mr Vilimsky, Member of the European Parliament, has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e9939	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to be able to listen here to the speakers of the ÖVP who, in my view, are really the last apologists of an underlying EU system. Regardless of how much they lose in elections, how many people get away from democratic will-buildings, they go on the road, instead of perhaps holding back and thinking about whether their positions should not be re-adjusted by a critical view of them, and they should not blindly skip all that comes from the European Union, but self-confidently and with a red-and-white pole for the interests of their own country. [[Abg. Fekter: Let's do it!]] - Don't! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister other than Fekter, we are starting with an example. It was your representative, then Minister of Agriculture, later Commissioner Fischler, who promised one – as much as was promised by the then red-black government – that the schilling would not be abolished and in no case a common currency would come. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] Everything didn't match the facts. The thousand euros promised by Mrs Ederer have also not been met. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Weninger, Arbitrators and Fekter.]] Now I'm with the fisherman and also with your party: Austria remains the fine food shop of Europe! – Do you remember these promises made by the population’s ÖVP at the time? – This is just as unworthy as the statement that the schilling remains that people are saving themselves something that ensures the pension system that the labour market is vitalized and so on and so on. [[Abg. New builder: unemployment!]] Now I'm at TTIP: I am glad that we are able to discuss this issue again in the Austrian National Council a few days before a significant election, with the participation of the television viewers, as there are two candidates. The one candidate, the green candidate, expressed himself very positively to TTIP about half a year ago – to be read in all the daily newspapers – and in principle had nothing against it. [[Abg. Brosz: such a holler!]] [[Abg. Moser: You lie like printed!]] Then there will probably have been party stratogens who have said: You can't represent such a position before the election. Adjust it! In the meantime, he's re-adjusted it, but it's a little bit against it. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: A little!]] The Austrian population will have to imagine whether it can or cannot believe such an indifference. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second is someone who has for years had a clear, unmistakable opinion, and that is the liberal candidate Norbert Hofer, who has said he will not put his signature – and he will be the responsible man in the court castle – under such a contract without – and I am at something very central – asking the population before. [[Abg. Kogler: Go, please! Please go to my colleague. You've been snoring it for years!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is the key, in fact, to how democracy, like politics, as well as a European agreement can work better in the future: to pick up the population, to involve the population, to ask the population and to focus on what the population wants – and not elected representatives of the people, as you are, as I am at European level, to let Eurocrats enter into some very special places under very special conditions that have been negotiated by company representatives, lobbyists, bureaucrats, and Eurocrats. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The negotiations did not involve any elected representatives. It was not a single representative of so-called civil society. All those institutions that are concerned about what will happen in the future in our counties were not involved. There is massive resistance across Europe to this agreement. I also understand why: because – and here I am in the promise of the EIA – we should have stayed Europe’s fine food shop – what we are not and now probably even less, with all these European Union developments. [[Abg. Schimanek: Milk price! Water cheaper...!]] That's exactly where the problem lies. Who's the profiteer from all of this? – Are it people with a food collection on their plates, from which the standard has been lowered? Or are it the big multis, are it the international corporations that want to make even more profit, which may also want to bring complaints against us just to increase their profit interests? And then really ends up on our tellers all that might only be called dangerous to health in a few years? The amount of complaints may then be below the profits of the companies that made a huge profit under the line. I say I do not want this agreement, I want to protect Austrian agriculture, I want the quality of Austrian food to be maintained accordingly. And I am glad that there is a candidate like Norbert Hofer, who has clearly and unmistakably said not to make his decision here without involving the population. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10094	Now Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10117	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to take a very brief look at the idea of Mr Vilimsky, who believes that the referendum on TTIP at the end of the whole process is really the best way to avoid letting what is at the table become reality. - Let's play this in thought. That is to say, there is a provisional application of CETA, there is then a decision by CETA, TTIP is further negotiated, under the conditions under which it is now being negotiated, namely the absolute mystery of visiting this “prison cell” in the Ministry of Economic Affairs for two hours, looking at two documents and not taking them with anyone. [[Abg. Fecter: The Greens have never been there!]] – There are 14 documents, Mrs Fekter! There I have to go seven times so I can see all the documents. I think that this is deplorable and it is not worthy of parliamentarianism in any way. I think we agree. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let's keep thinking: They want all of this to be renegotiated, even under the conditions given, namely that now the food market, the European agricultural market, also the European food standards and agricultural standards are de facto exchanged with the US, which, in return, are to avoid the rules on the financial market, insurance. That is what is being negotiated at the moment, you want to have continued, and at the end of the day you want this to be decided here in the House and then a referendum will be held on it. I'm telling you, this is pretty absurd. I would like to: I would like this Minister of Economic Affairs, together with the new Chancellor, to stop the negotiations on TTIP immediately. The system is so misplaced, it is no longer possible to save! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to see a clear new positioning here. They tried football comparisons earlier. At the moment it is CETA, with the agreement with Canada so... [[Abg. Peter Worm: The Greens will fall again, as usual!]] - You'll be right there! – At the moment, it’s like you’re already rated a football game after the first half of the season as a final result for the climb or descent of a team. That's the way it is. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: That's how you see it!]] With the provisional application of the Canada Agreement, the appeals for companies are de facto reality. Then CETA is decided, that is, the special-laws are already real with Canada. And then you want to keep this from the Americans? How is that supposed to work? By the way: There are already almost 42 000 subsidiaries of American companies, which will then do exactly what we feared from the very beginning through the back door of Canada and CETA. Colleagues of the Freeman, this brochure is from 2014. [[keeping such a person in height]] That's what I'm saying, because that was at a time when you didn't even know how to spell TTIP. But this has been an important question and has always been our primary concern to look more closely at this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I have a few questions to ask colleagues from the ÖVP. I don't know how you really imagine it. It is, I believe, not an exclusive question of production; I believe that agriculture and food are a cultural issue. And we in Europe have drawn our lessons from many crises in the food sector. We have drawn our conclusions from the crises concerning BSE, hormones and antibiotics in Europe and a strict system of food control and also the prohibitions. We have excluded antibiotics from animal husbandry because it is a huge problem with resistance, both in humans and in animals. We do not want to go the way to agricultural agriculture, and with TTIP the way is pre-programmed. It is pre-programmed that we are flooded with cheap goods, that the Austrian farmers are being further under pressure and that we must gradually lower our standards. You will then argue, otherwise we, our agriculture, our farmers are no longer competitive. It just can't happen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We really have a lot to lose in the area: Seed diversity, nature conservation standards – a lot is at stake! I have told you more often, but this agricultural industry means, for example, that in a week, 360 million chickens are slaughtered. And that's a system I just don't want, and you certainly don't want it. They don't want our farmers to compete with them either. These are not farmers, these are industries, these slaughterhouses are entire cities. This development is a cultural issue, and there is also a clear assessment – and that is not the case, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs – of the fact that we want to have another form of economy, of agriculture, one based on sustainability, which is based on a precautionary principle. I don't want mothers to prove that the snout was toxic to the baby because it already poisoned a child. I believe that this is a sufficient explanation of the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10212	Next word: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10233	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Today, much has been said about materiality and much about what security means, and I think one can certainly say that the Greens and the FPÖ are quite agreed here as far as populism is concerned. If I am trying to find a point of fact, I must also thank you, then I must also find a word of recognition for Mr. Vice-Chancellor, because he – obviously only yesterday – has known himself to be clear. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and NEOS]] But this must only be said on the government bank, for Minister Rupprechter has not yet done so; President Schultes is for that. But let's go on in the matter: If the colleague Klubobfrau Glawischnig spoke of the food standards and that all of this would be under pressure, there would be no organic farm chicken on the shelf in Austria according to her logic, because that has a much higher price. And precisely these organic products flourish with us, because we have specialized in them and because agricultural production can only get into specialization. So, in my opinion, it's inconceivable to always paint a terror of results on the wall, which you don't know at all, which we don't know yet. Who knows the results here? Please show me! Who knows her here in this room? Who knows the results? [[Abg. Kogler: From CETA already!]] [[Distinguished call of the Agg. Pirklhuber.]] – Do you know the results? - No, we don't know her. I didn't get a handsign. [[Abg. Kogler: CETA has been present since 2014!]] We can vote on this. Yes, we have the possibility. Yes, we have the procedure. And I think it's for us to discuss the facts when the results are on the table. Then we can discuss the subject – but not in the pure populism only paint the horror ghosts on the wall! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm not your party strategist, but you'll be on the agenda soon. If TTIP and CETA have soon gone over the table, then go out the topics, then you have to look for something new. We should be for Europe! When Mr Kogler refers to another economic system: Do you know how my economic understanding looks? – It means securing jobs and creating jobs. The ifo has already been quoted: Nearly 50 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises – my business is also one of the small and medium-sized enterprises, but there are thousands in Austria who would benefit from this – would benefit from a loss of non-tariff barriers to trade. And that's what it's all about! It is about securing jobs, and it is mainly about developing the economy. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Do you know that the amis are negotiating with the Japanese, with Indonesians and South Koreans by the way? Then this economic area is even bigger! They will then put even greater pressure on us! I would like the government to be very strong, to strongly support the European Union in its negotiating mandate, so that the standards are raised and not, as my colleague Glavischnig always says, levelled down. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] No, we have a chance to lift her. And that's what your leaks show that you're so nervous that all this isn't the way you say it is. In my opinion, the TTIP leaks show: Europe has a strong mandate here, and this makes use of it – and we should support it accordingly. Then, if the result is available, we can discuss it. Stop persevering in your populism after the 22nd century. May there is also a day!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10313	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10334	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It's about TTIP, it's about CETA, but it's also about TiSA, because that's the next thing that's at our door. The concept of free trade agreements, I must admit, has already been very, very highly intelligently elected to market technology. Free trade, of course, we all want it. Especially in the present situation, of course, everyone wants to try everything to boost the economy. Unfortunately, only what is behind these free trade agreements is a mogel pack, where the price for the population could be very high. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In principle, Austria rejects gag contracts. Both TTIP and CETA are contracts in which there are no exits which are considered as free trade agreements. In this case, the Commission considers that it More than 70 percent of the population – this has turned out to be after starting to look behind the concept of free trade – rejects it. All the heads of state are now against CETA, they have clearly declared themselves. There are numerous resolutions by communities, rejection by farmers and now also by large corporations – REWE, SPAR, to name just a few here. We have already heard that the Federal Government has here partly expressed a little disunited on these issues. Of course it is said that one has concerns and one does not want to exceed red lines, but in the EU bodies no one really gets anything from this position, namely also from the position of the Austrians, this 70 percent that is negatively opposed to this free trade agreement. According to the EU Trade Council, it was said by the representative of the Dutch EU Presidency: Member States strongly support the agreement. – Where are the 70 percent of Austrians who say: We do not want these agreements!Unknown term type: "%s".? So here the opinion of the population is not really reflected. It is clear, of course, that we know the text of the Treaty only in its spelling. I was in the reading room, I read it through. There are still a lot of segments missing from these agreements. But we can draw some parallels with a look at the past, namely the NAFTA agreement. There are some clues here, which might well be in the house at TTIP and Co. Of course, NAFTA has increased exports. The question is: Which one? – It is clear that the wage level has fallen very much, especially in Mexico. The proportion of those living at the poverty line has increased, as the highly subsidized US maize meant the ruin of many, many small farmers. Winners were – three times you can guess – the large corporations that could expand their export share. So under fair trade, we imagine something different here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is also different from ours when it comes to protecting workers. You see this as a cost factor. As far as CETA is concerned, the text of the contract does not guarantee that European labour protection and/or social standards are included there. The core labour standards of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) are not part of the draft, which could and should apply to TTIP. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have always raised a little bit of transparency and meant that the standards of the ILO are very well contained. So she couldn't find anyone so far. We would be very pleased if you could show us these. I would also like to mention briefly “no reduction in standards”. With regard to the residues of pesticides and other chemicals, one has agreed on the Codex-Alimentarius directive, and I can tell you that it is unfortunately much, much more laxer than we have prescribed in the EU. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] You see, reality strongly deviates from the promises made. And one last sentence: The German “world” has recently reported on investigations that have found that it would be economically feasible if we clearly reject TTIP. It would be a purely political damage. – Think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10415	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10437	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! You should look at the pages of the European Commission on the Internet, because there is a very bright sentence on CETA. The Commission writes that CETA is the most comprehensive trade agreement “the EU has so far concluded”! So for the Commission, this agreement seems to have already been fixed and continued, that is, before the Council decision, before the vote in the European Parliament and even before the agreement has been presented to a single national Parliament. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You wonder, Mrs. Colleague?]] But as fast as the Commission may wish, CETA is far from yet. We adopted a resolution here in the National Council – which has already been mentioned – in September 2014. In this we have defined what a trade agreement must fulfil in order for it to receive our consent. That is why we will not agree to an agreement which we cannot examine thoroughly and which violates our Parliament's decision. I assume that our government will not agree to an agreement and not yet its provisional application until there is a clear vote on it by Parliament. This applies, of course, to all agreements, but in particular to CETA and TTIP. The Commission is already right, CETA is the most comprehensive agreement that has been negotiated by the EU so far, and TTIP is certainly even bigger. Not only trade and economic issues are being negotiated, CETA and TTIP are deeply involved in our lives. They affect our consumer protection, they affect our environment, they affect our drinking water supply, our social security, our democracy and our rule of law, our legal system. There would be a lot to be changed in the agreement, not only in the transparent and undemocratic way in which it is to be implemented, but also in terms of content, especially as regards these Group courts. As the Commission has admittedly changed a number of things, with the result that we have now come to the rain from the grape if you want to do so, because our legal system will continue to take serious damage, as arbitration courts, whether public or private, ultimately remain special rights for the large corporations. We are thus creating a parallel justice that ultimately undermines our rule of law. I would like to warn again about the provisional applications, because we would come to a situation where multinational companies can bring up millions of complaints on the basis of an agreement we reject that we did not agree with. And even if we reject the agreement and CETA fails, companies would have the right to continue complaining for several years on the basis of an agreement which we expressly reject. So our position is clear: No to the arbitrators, no to the provisional application of CETA and no to the agreement in this form! An agreement between the EU and Canada would have a very positive potential, one would have the courage and take the time to look at it in detail and discuss it in detail, for example in the context of the planned survey, so that it would not become a purely trade agreement, but also a consumer protection agreement, an environmental protection agreement and an anti-social dumping agreement. However, this opportunity has so far been denied, and therefore we will not carry CETA in this form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10474	Now comes Mr Mag. Mr Karas, Member of the European Parliament, speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10498	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that today the Austrian National Council is once again discussing the issues of trade agreements, because there are issues, concerns and fears in the population, as Mr Vice-Chancellor has also done, and because we have many of these concerns, these fears and these issues because the debate is too limited in fact. Every public debate – and therefore, I hope the discussion today – contributes to a clarification, to a clarification and focuses on the information. I have the impression that FPÖ is the only group to be radically opposed to the two trade agreements and that it is not about the question of how it is about all the other groups. This is precisely what the European Parliament is talking about. We must say, when we think of the facts – with regard to my predecessor –: The contents of the CETA Agreement have been since 29. So, February 2016 on the table, is known and can be rated. We can consider our voting behaviour and assess whether the conditions we have addressed to the negotiators in the National Council and in the European Parliament are fulfilled. From my point of view, they have been fulfilled at CETA precisely by the amendments relating to arbitration courts, but also beyond. It is open whether it is a mixed agreement or not. The Austrian National Council, Austria, assumes that it is a mixed agreement. TTIP is still under way. The conditions of the National Council, the conditions of the European Parliament, the conditions of the Council for such an agreement are on the table, but not yet the results of the negotiations. That is why I would like to say very clearly: If we all, and I hope everyone, want a fairer trade, then we have to negotiate fairer trade. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But without arbitration!]] Without negotiation, there is no framework for regulating globalisation – and we want to regulate globalisation, because if we do not regulate it, the person who does not comply with the law, who has lower standards, usually wins lower wages, compared to the one who has higher standards. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to regulate globalisation according to our values, according to our legal understanding, so we say yes to negotiations. All the concerns, fears, all the resolutions I know are contained in the negotiating mandate to the negotiators as conditions of the European Parliament and the Council, and these are the basis for the evaluation of the results of the negotiations. I wonder all the time – and then I join Mrs. Glavischnig: Why should there be a referendum in the end? I'm saying this very dry: Who are we afraid of? – Are we afraid of politicians who have the last word in both the European Parliament and the national Parliament? [[Abg. Stefan: Or in front of the population?]] Are we afraid of our terms of reference to the negotiators? Are we afraid of our quality? Are we afraid of our strengths? – No, I’m not afraid of that! I would like to strengthen parliamentary democracy and not undermine it. I am therefore glad that the European Parliament has been involved in the decision-making process since the Lisbon Treaty. I would like to strengthen European quality, I would like to strengthen European agriculture, I would like to strengthen our strengths in the economy and as a location, so that we can negotiate with our values and with our right to regulate globalisation. He who shoots himself loses. We go to the others, because we are export world champions and we know what free trade means for the Austrian economy: Prosperity, jobs and social justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10554	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10575	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Karas, I can answer a question as soon as possible, namely the question you fear. You said what you didn't fear, but you didn't say what you were afraid of. But that's easy to answer, because – you didn't mention it – that's a decision of the people, a decision of the population that is against the Nomenklatura and against people who are removed, simply enforce things for ideological reasons, whether it's good or bad for the people, and whether it wants the population or not. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But this is a policy that you should not be involved in, which you should not represent and which we are not just carrying along, but which we are actively fighting. We believe, democracy and Article 1 of our Constitution, that the right of the people is not empty phrases, but these are the foundations of our actions, which is the central task that we have been given by the Constitution, by the voters. This, Mr Karas, applies equally to the Minister Mitterlehner, who is now, unfortunately, no longer present. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thankfully, Mr Korun of the Greens, in the previous debate, said very important things, namely that today's command is to make a policy beyond speech bubbles and beyond mere symbolic politics. We should all have this written in the main book, Mr Karas, and not talk about it, that we should clarify international matters through negotiations, make a wild growth, that negotiations are the way. What else is there to negotiate? – CETA has been closed and negotiated for months. There are negotiated, concluded contracts to which we can only lift the handle and say yes, as you mean, or to which we have to lift the handle and say no, as I mean. We don't need to sell people for stupid purposes now and talk about negotiations and negotiating mandates – that's what happened! And TTIP – if you listen to Commissioner Malmström – is largely negotiated, and there is little room for negotiation and compromise. We will have to focus on CETA here, as it negotiates, the Commission's words. So we do not have to decide whether we are negotiating and talking, but we have to decide whether the things that are largely negotiated, which are no longer negotiable in the central questions – that is what the Americans have presented – should become law. We do not have to decide – as is disinformative, unfortunately, I must say, the Minister of Economic Affairs has said – whether we want to become a Albania and return to Enver Hoxha's policy. No one wants it, no one wants to return to the Stone Age. Of course it takes action, of course it needs competition, of course it needs free market economy, the question is only: With what limits? Limited? Do we need the total free market economy? – We do not need them either, which is also regulated in many things, including through antitrust provisions and the like, so that the free market economy remains such. Free trade is, of course, to be limited. It does not make sense everywhere about free trade in Europe. It makes no sense that water, called mi- Neral water, which is shipped from Italy and France to Austria to stop Vittel or Perrier or Sanpellegrino, is only because the brands of the Nestlé Group, which sells its water under its brand through contracts with the commercial companies and with the gastronomy. This does not make sense, it is not a sustainable regional policy, that in a country that is almost flooded with water, over thousands of kilometers of water will be created! Just as little makes sense that we import salted butter from Normandy, because the Danone Group is behind it, and export our cheese to southern France or Spain. If we talk about regional economy, regional cycles, regional supply, conservation of structures, it makes no sense. Nor does it make sense to send our agriculture to free competition with agro-industrial agriculture, as it exists in the United States. That doesn't make any sense! If there are states in which the average size of an agricultural holding is 1 000 hectares – not in all states, but in some states – then it makes no sense to send our miners with average operating areas of 20 to 25 hectares to a free economy. Unless we say we don't need it anymore, the product must be the cheapest, we buy one where we save a few cents. Then we end up where EU agricultural policy has ended: that we pay 20 cents of the price for milk. These are all failed systems, and you can look at these failed systems on the living model in North America. There is this North American free trade agreement NAFTA; there is. The result was that in Mexico about 90,000 jobs have been created in the assembly industry, especially by the large American automotive and machinery companies, but at the same time the existence of about 1.25 million small-scale maize producers have been destroyed; they are now unemployed and live in the slums. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I'll finish. If Commission President Juncker says, we will do something once, and if there is no cry, because people don't understand what it is all about, then we will continue until there is no step back. This must not be our policy, but we must now say no to these results! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10644	Mr Reimon, Member of the European Parliament, has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10666	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A trade agreement, in which large economic areas decide on common standards and perhaps still build them up, would be the best and most intelligent we can decide on. TTIP and CETA are the best example of how not to do it! At TTIP, we know the mandate and we know where it is going. We have a model in which this works half way: the European Union. 28 industrial nations are working together, working in a parliament, in a Commission of common standards. Then the liberals come, the presidential candidate is making fun of the fact that the approval of agricultural machinery such as tractors, tractor seats is jointly regulated. - Yes, no to ned! Do you want 28 national regulations for tractor seats? Do the liberals in this Parliament want to regulate the approval of tractor seats? – With 440 000 unemployed people in Austria do you want to take care of tractor seats?- Oh, my God! That's a total nonsense! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Stefan: You want a regulation!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: The most important problem in Austria: tractor seat! Incredible!]] What we need is a common regulation – what we don't get through TTIP is exactly that! TTIP will not create common standards. If it is said by the government that the right to regulate must be maintained for the Austrian National Council, that is true. This will happen at TTIP. Indeed, mutual recognition is being negotiated: The US standard shall be approved in the Union, the European standard shall be approved in the United States; both shall apply. The Austrian, European standard for producers remains true, but for consumers the American product is also located in the supermarket, in the dealer or elsewhere. This is mutual recognition, which is the negotiating mandate given by the government. Nothing else can come out, because for the Commission, officials who are not free will not be able to decide anything. They have a mandate from governments, including the Austrian Ministry of Economic Affairs, that this mutual recognition should come about. What does that mean? – You can actually raise the standards in the Austrian National Council for any sector covered by TTIP in the future. You can do this according to TTIP, but that means you produce additional costs for Austrian entrepreneurs, higher costs by the higher standard, and make the Austrian economy less competitive, because America is still exporting to Europe according to its standards and its products at the prices at which they are produced can offer to us in the supermarket. That's what TTIP does. You will no longer be able to raise a standard in Austria, because this will disadvantage the Austrian economy in the competitive situation. The right to regulate You have, only you will not be able to use it anymore. - That's TTIP! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is also CETA and also in the agricultural sector. We, the Commission, on behalf of the 28 governments, in agreement with the Austrian Government, actively offer to exchange agriculture against the US public procurement market. – You can lift any food standard in Austria, you will only have US products here in the future! On the NEOS argument: They are already quite right, the expensive organic products will continue to be able to afford to consumers who want to buy expensive organic products. There will be no pressure. Under pressure will be the cheap segment, the absolute cheap segment of the poor and the poorest. There is pressure, not luxury customers; there will be no problems for these clients. We offer – no –, we demand, so it must be said, of the USA within the framework of TTIP, mutual recognition of financial market products. The Americans strictly regulated their financial markets for end-users in 2008. In Europe we have not achieved this; European financial market products are not so strictly regulated. On behalf of the 28 governments, we call on the United States to authorise European financial market products, i.e. a break-up of regulation. – I ask you: Is this the interest of Europe in deregulating the US financial markets? Do we offer access to our food markets so that our banks over there can sell bad products again? These are bad situations for common markets. We could create common regulations, but then please with Parliament's involvement. This is not now in the negotiating mandate, and that is why it is to be terminated – to break down, just as the current negotiating position is, because the order is bad. If you take yourself seriously as a Parliament, you will award new negotiating orders for a common legislation, for common regulations, for common high standards that you can actually push up without driving the economy into a suicide competition for lower standards! Then you can make such an agreement, but not as it is now assigned. That's not to be saved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As the last one: Investment protection goes in exactly this direction. It's not put away anything from the courts. You are accused of passing laws in this National Council when this investment protection comes. So far, we have only experienced this with third world countries, which are also sued by Austrian corporations. We should not allow you to be sued as a National Council because you raise a standard, push up an environmental protection standard, screw up a social standard or something else. You should not let this be taken away as an Austrian National Council! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10742	The Member of the European Parliament has now been informed of Mrs Mlinar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10764	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Spoštovane lady in gospodje! Even though other issues are pressing in the foreground in these days, we are experiencing a very passionate European hour here today, because the excitement theme TTIP doesn't leave anyone cold, and so many experts as far as free trade is concerned, as in these days it has been rare. In advance, some basic facts on the debate on free trade: First: Free trade is increasing, generally and soberly, in principle both growth and prosperity in the countries involved. Secondly, Austria is a highly successful export nation, and we are all very proud of that. We can be found to benefit disproportionately from free trade, whether since accession to the EU, since the opening of the East with the new Member States or with countries outside the European Union. And thirdly – and actually that's the most important point –: Countries that have agreed to free trade have rarely until ever waged wars against each other. Free trade connects people, systems and countries and simply provides a good reason for peace. These three points are clear advantages for me, so that I have always supported free trade on ordered routes; ordered railways, that means to me: based on clear agreements and clear rules and in the interests of the population. This makes it very specific to TTIP and CETA, the trade agreement with the USA and Canada: I also expect the benefits just mentioned, and I also expect the results of the negotiations in the interests of the population. I also bring this confidence to the negotiators. I trust them that they act in the sense of the population. It's clear to me: TTIP has global significance. It is mild and shortsighted to believe that without this agreement, everything in Europe remained what it is. In Austria, every second job depends directly or indirectly on exports; only about 100 000 jobs are directly linked to the US trade. But now to the very point of my speech today: The fact that in this debate in particular in Austria matters are being heightened and deliberately dramatized is not a secret. But I do not believe that anyone who is still outraged is thinking, and that is one of the tragedies of these free trade debates. I often have the impression that it is more about mood than facts, more about ideology than about knowledge. All this causes me to fight with a Déjà-vu, namely: When we joined the EU more than 20 years ago, we had a similar situation. What was the subject of the debate then? – Fear of blood chocolate, colourings from loops and genetic engineering. When we look back, we see that the standards have not lowered and the much predicted fall of the evening country has not occurred. [[Abg. Lugar: But you could say something material! What do you think?]] The problem with this kind of discussion is the complete emotionalization and conscious arousal of aggression – aggression, which leads to the proponents and their opponents actually attack each other extremely in a discussion. [[Abg. Lugar: Say something about the subject!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Say something about the subject!]] I was last week in a debate on this subject, and the emotions are almost overcooked there. EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström told me about the threats of murder she gets. The level of anger and aggression is taking on terrifying proportions. In fact, a reasonable exchange of arguments and opinions is hardly taking place anymore. [[Abg. Lugar: Well, say something reasonable!]] We live in times of massive linguistic violence, and I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this cannot be. We're talking about a free trade agreement! The fact that we are coming to the close of the threshold of linguistic and actual violence is one thing that we need to brake together. Indeed, we politicians have the task of holding back these emotions, calming the fears, not reaching any point victory and ruining the opponent's project. Let us therefore take a stand and ensure that this debate is de-escalated. Whether it is in the final phase of the Federal Presidency election campaign or also in the government work as such, we all show people that it is different! I hope that this will not remain a pious wish either for today's debate or for the future. I wish all of us a constructive exchange. Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10840	Mr Steinbichler is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e10888	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! – Yes, Mrs Fekter, you should read yesterday’s “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten), who are already writing it, so you can believe it pretty slowly! Palm oil will become its own topic today. I would have liked to ask the vice chancellor Mitterlehner, who is no longer present, how to make himself here and say to the Austrian Parliament: I have no competence in Brussels! - That's unheard of! At the same time, I read in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” that the same Mr. Vice-Chancellor says: CETA is a good agreement, the trade agreement is close to the goal! – Mr Secretary of State Mahrer, perhaps you can forward this question. It was also significant, however, what Mr Mlinar said earlier. I have always been excited about how blind she is following globalisation – probably there is even higher honors than an EU mandate – but, Mrs. Mlinar, I have brought you the today’s edition of the “Economic Sheet”, and you can read about how “enthusiased” the managers in Austria are from TTIP and CETA, namely: 70 percent think nothing of TTIP and CETA, they consider these agreements to be unprofitable; It is 71 percent across the EU. If you say that you represent the interests of the citizens – and I should like to invite Mrs. Minzig to do so, because she is not currently representing the economy, especially the small economy, in Vöcklabruck – then I would like to bring something to reality: This picture has placed a Vöcklabrucker entrepreneur on the Internet, and it says: [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]] ‘Towards US competition’. You can add it to the current price list of Wedl – also from Vöcklabruck. [[The speaker puts another table on the speaker’s desk, on which a price list of Wedl is shown, where under the heading “Steak World Champion” several priced pieces of meat can be seen.]] That's what it says: ‘Steak World Champion’. We're talking like we were living in a healing world now. Sepp Schellhorn still believes that in Salzburg the organic farmers deliver to the hotel industry. Dear Sepp, you look at the poster, but you have to deal with reality! 80 percent of organic products come from import. Today I am delighted to welcome a group of the farmers' market Regau under Obmann Schwarz, who listens to this discussion at the gallery with interest. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] More than 40 exhibitors from this region offer their products on the Regauer Farm Market. Only: Here you can see how aggressively the market is currently being advertised. [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]] Here on this prize list with the title "Steak World Champion" are seven areas listed: Japan, Europe, South America, North America, Africa, Australia and Asia, and most of the menu – Mr President Schultes – you will talk about this issue today: Products from the region, produced according to domestic principles, sustainable and in accordance with nature. – This is the problem our businesses, our small businesses, our employees have! Mrs Mlinar, I have an Internet message here on the flow band work in the USA, poultry industry. “Workers in the US poultry industry have to wear diapers” because they don’t have a break so they can go to the toilet. Are these the worker standards you want to introduce in Austria? Is that the policy we want to support? [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No...!]] Thank you, Mr Schieder. At the time, I gave the chancellor Faymann the hand to the now excretioned chancellor, because at the time I thought that we cannot rely on the ÖVP in this matter. I'm tired of Minister Rupprechter saying: Well, now the deal is swinging! And to these famous red lines: Hermann Schultes, maybe this afternoon you can make it clear what these red lines are, or President Jakob Auer; that would be interesting. These red lines must be something quite dangerous. I don't know, has this had something to do with the premise that there will be a new Federal Chancellor? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I have no idea, but the red lines are at risk. Maybe it could explain Elisabeth Köstinger. She wants to become a minister anyway, then we have a contact in Austria. That would be interesting. Please define what the red lines are! We do not know what is being negotiated with CETA, TTIP and Co. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And then it says: Go to the Ministry of Economics and look at the files, but you can't write down anything, you can't photograph anything! And now I come to another point: Commissioner Hogan was here in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] – Yes, President Eßl, you are the best: You supposedly saved the military music, but you didn't know you voted against it! I think you're a lot. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] But one thing I can tell you: You are probably one of those in Salzburg for p.g.A. for protected geographical indications, for a Tyrolean bacon made of Dutch meat, smoked with Czech beech wood, and you then give the pickerl “Product from Austria” on it. – What we have there are not trademarks. We are going unprotected into this globalisation. We're going unprotected in this market. We must not sacrifice our agriculture, our consumers, our regional jobs, our companies this globalisation. That is the decisive!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11005	Mrs Graswander-Hainz, Member of the European Parliament, has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11026	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! – Oh, you have forgotten something, deputies! [[Abg. Steinbichler picks up his still on the speaker's desk.]] - Please, please, take it with you! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak here on this subject. It is, it seems to all of us, very important. I would, however, particularly like to thank Members of the Green Group for allowing a debate on this issue here in this House at all. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] With football I don't know how well, I stay with the committee I work in, the Committee on International Trade. There I am dealing with already existing agreements, but also with new ones, planned and under negotiation. The Member States of Europe and the European Union themselves have already decided innumerable agreements, but the citizens have little to do with them. It's a matter of interest. At CETA and TTIP everything is different now, and I think that's how it is. We must also include the people directly affected by these trade agreements. Let's see what this is all about. We should criticise, we should discuss, and we should find solutions. We are all concerned with trade policy, and it must be for the good of all. A socially just and ecologically sustainable trade policy would have the potential to create a foundation for economic growth and jobs, as we wish, and how it would comply with the concept of a sustainable and thoughtful policy. The EU Member States and the EU Commission have just been called upon to learn from CETA and TTIP. Do we have the courage to talk about the orientation of new trade preferences in the future, more open, and in the sense of our society? I know the arguments and concerns, and I too, as a critic, must admit: No European trade agreement has ever been as transparent as TTIP! But I wonder, Why? – Because it was the EU Commission or because it wanted America to do so or because EU Member States were suddenly more transparent in their actions? – No, ladies and gentlemen, it is only thanks to the pressure of the public and the European Parliament that the EU Commission has taken a step towards transparency. And yes, I admit that it is a concession of the EU Commission, and it is a step in the right direction. However, the latest revelations of Greenpeace have shown that the negotiating positions of Europe and America are far too far apart. Although negotiations have been under way for three years now, I do not see any concrete progress or approach; nothing can be seen from both sides. It does not seem that the US would have given up its protectionism, for example in public procurement, and would have opened up its markets for us at all. That is exactly what the European Union has been negotiating for over 20 years, and it is actually not visible to success. Not only with regard to public procurement, but also with regard to geographical indications of origin and services, the US is very, very reluctant and very little ambitious. The most sensitive areas will be postponed to the so-called endgame anyway. For this reason, I also believe that a conclusion at the time of President Obama's government will not be called into question at all. I would like to say to the representatives of the European Commission and the representatives of industry, who are constantly saying what an advantage TTIP will bring to us, that we will have economic growth and will gain jobs, and that Europe will only be able to stay at the head of the world economy: For each study, in which the benefits of TTIP are praised, there is another study that speaks of a low growth impulse or even places the loss of European jobs in space. So not only the lack of transparency, but also other important points in CETA, which has already been negotiated, and in TTIP, which is planned, is absolutely unacceptable to me. First, I vehemently oppose investor protection. Investor protection instruments are only possible for foreign companies and not for citizens or domestic companies. I do not want a two-class society or a two-class jurisdiction in Europe. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Secondly, the primacy of politics. Public general care and our high standards are not protected either. Let me say one last sentence: Yes, trade policy is important, but it must be fair, it must be sustainable, it must be socially fair, and it also needs the retention of national parliaments so that we can go into a future that is safe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11116	Next speaker: Mr Schultes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11138	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! [[Abg. Kogler: Say something about the precautionary principle and genetic engineering!]] First of all, I say something to the employees of the Chamber of Agriculture of Lower Austria. I'm glad to welcome her here in the house. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! TTIP is a subject that is very busy in agriculture, very moving and that is very worrying for us. We know that we are only competitive where we are among the best and where there are companies that bring their products to the people who want the best and value it. There's a serious crisis right now. It is therefore difficult to talk about issues that could mean even more market in such a time. That is why it is important that we explain our positions very clearly. With us in Austria, it is forbidden to sell meat that is from hormone-treated cattle. – That’s it, that’s it, and that’s what we stand for! In Austria, it is prohibited to offer, sell and sell genetically modified animals. – That remains so, for that we stand! In Austria, it is forbidden to grow genetically modified plants, which we have secured in this House with two-thirds majority. – That's right, that's right, that's what we're standing for! Yes, we pay attention to the precautionary principle, and that means: Only what is previously classified as unwarranted may be brought to the customer afterwards. We are living at a time when market opening is constantly taking place. I live on the Slovak border, I have already experienced several market openings: EU accession, EU enlargement, EU accession to Slovakia, then Euro in Slovakia, and now the further steps with Ukraine and the further steps in the Mercosur Agreement. – We talk about these issues all the time and must constantly fight to adapt. Market opening means knowing very well what we have to protect. Every time we need the negotiation of quotas and how they work. They all want us to have security in difficult times, so it is important to protect strength and sugar, for example – not only the industry, but also that it grows on our fields. In the crisis, you only have what grows on the field outside. That is why it is important to be very precise and to be careful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know that much more is going on today than it used to be – Internet trade, people are familiar with the world – so it is important for us to give people security as far as origin is concerned so that they know where something comes from. Fraud protection is an important issue, including in all these negotiations. If this is not regulated cleanly, then we will not have to have for these agreements. That is why it is quite clear that we see all these points, which I have now listed, as red lines and whose compliance has a fundamental meaning for us. If that doesn't fit, then the whole agreement doesn't fit. At CETA we can already look at what that means: That's where we've got quotas, that's where we've got regulations. The Canadians are afraid of our milk and our cheese, so they have demanded quotas for it. We asked for quotas for meat. That said, it was completely out of the question at the outset, and therefore the procedure which could proceed differently with CETA. There are a few points at CETA that we certainly need to discuss before the decision-making process in Austria, but in principle you can learn something from them. In fact, it is true that at TTIP many did not know what it was all about. At TTIP we have Austria, the American ambassador Wesner, as agriculture. October on a visit to a farm – with our rural delegates – explains clearly what our position is, what are the special cracks. It has carried it well, only in the negotiations can it not be found. The Members who negotiate for America do not take seriously what has been established in Europe by the Council, by the governments, by Parliament and by us. Only, the point is: We stand for the agricultural world in Austria, we stand for consumers, and we rural Members stand for the competence in the points I have mentioned earlier. You can be sure of one thing: If this agreement, TTIP, comes about, which I have great doubts about, and if it comes into the house here, then we will ensure that it is appropriate for agriculture. We don't play a theatre, we talk where it's necessary, and we'll talk when it's necessary. I thank my colleagues for this, because they stand by it and know exactly what they want. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is about clarifying the unnegotiable positions. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] That's what we did. Yeah, we have a crisis, but that's a completely different crisis. Austrian agriculture is acute in the crisis. We need help very quickly. We need help for those farmers whose farms are frozen - we are negotiating this at the next item on the agenda - and we also need help on social security contributions. In addition, the agricultural diesel is too taxed, we need what applies to Hungary and France.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11190	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11206	Thank you, Mr President. – We need customers who remain faithful to us because we also remain faithful to them. What we promise, we keep it. We'll just ask you: Buy it, too, so you can have some of it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11236	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11257	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Much has already been said about content. I would like to address this briefly, namely: I am not confident that there will be a good deal of negotiation on these points. I am not convinced that the group members are not coming – so I am convinced that they are coming. I am not convinced that the precautionary principle will not be removed. I am also convinced that changes and deteriorations in food standards are very likely to occur. I am also convinced that the conditions of consumer protection are getting worse. I am even very critical when it comes to assessing the impact on the employment situation in Europe. There are examples – Mr Hübner has already mentioned them – there are also studies, for example at Tufts University, which say that jobs in Europe will be significantly lost and that we will not gain jobs. I'd like to talk a little bit about the procedure. It is, of course, right what Commissioner Malmström says that the negotiations are carried out by the Commission on the basis of a mandate from the Heads of State or Government. I wonder, What prevents our head of government from going to Brussels and saying that I restrict the mandate, I withdraw the mandate? – An exposed counter-TTIP holding is always taken here in Austria, and unfortunately, in Brussels it is quite different. Finally, the whole work of my opinion is a work of large corporations for large corporations, a work that also reflects a spirit, an American spirit. It also says that Nobel Laureate Stiglitz does not, in reality, offer free trade to all American free trade agreements, but are trade agreements controlled by the world's most powerful economic lobbys, which ultimately raise prices for consumers and ultimately disarm Parliaments. That's the point now: The Greens have asked for the subject of this current European hour, and I would like to say two sentences on the request of the Green President-in-Office for the United States of Europe. What exactly did that mean now, the United States of Europe: a central state with a central government in Brussels, the abolition of the “evil” nation states? What exactly did this mean in this discussion about TTIP, for example, if we actually realize it? – Of course, we liberals are strongly opposed. – That was to say, we did not need to talk about TTIP here, because it does not fall within our competence but is decided by 20 Commissioners in Brussels and negotiated with American negotiators. So it doesn't come to us at all. The same would have been true for things like ESM, like cash ban, such as EU border management, Turkey deal, Turkey's accession et cetera. [[Abg. Kogler: Go, please!]] We must be aware: With the United States of Europe, this will be decided in Brussels, and we have nothing to say about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not our access to democracy – democracy, the power of the people. This is not our access if democratic co-determination in such United States is reduced by Europe to allow us to make a crusade every five years and choose between Juncker or Schulz or Karas – by the way, all the supporters of Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Obernoster: What was that now?]] Again: This is not our access to democracy if we are limited to being allowed to make a crusade every five years. We liberals do not want to do so, so we are very critical of that. We liberals believe that the right goes from the people and that in basic things that regulate living together, the final decision has to be with the people. The United States of Europe would be the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11317	The next speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11339	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Values Watchers at the gallery! You have just heard that Mr Kassager meant that Europe was not the solution. Today, we have put this issue of TTIP and CETA under a clear motto, under the motto “fair trade instead of corporate rule!”. Mr Kassinger, that is the reason: because we need a strong Europe that is exactly what will stop those who are global players today. You can't create this here in the National Council alone! At this point, thanks to the MEPs for their work, that we also work together more closely here, that we conduct the discussion, parliamentaryly lead, democratically lead – that is the challenge: the primacy of politics! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For this we, ladies and gentlemen, fight so that citizens' rights, environmental and social rights are not eroded by those “snacks”, which have nothing else in mind to increase their profitrates. That cannot be the future of Europe! And there is good evidence for this, namely scientific evidence: Naomi Klein, Colin Crouch, also Joseph Stiglitz as US economist and Nobel Prizewinner. Yes, they have said that fair trade has been strengthened. This is the agenda that we need in Europe: to strengthen fair trade in order to shape the future of Europe. That is the question – and this is addressed to the colleagues from the ÖVP, to the Minister and the Secretary of State: Do we really need for the future of Europe, for social security and economic cohesion TTIP and CETA? Let us look at the facts! What do your economists say, so to speak, the apologists of this way? – 0.04 percent additional GDP, additional growth is expected to bring it. 0.04 percent per year – possibly only in ten years! And how many jobs? Commissioner Malmström has said it here in the House during the debate: for Austria about 25,000 jobs. [[Abg. Kogler: That's ridiculous!]] Yes, but there is not yet the opposite of how many farmers have to stop, how many small and medium-sized enterprises have to stop because of these changes, that is the reality. – So hardly any effects! And how important are TTIP and CETA on the other hand to transnational corporations? – The Minister did not argue. Although he is right to say that Coca-Cola is on the market both in Europe and in the US, what he did not say is that Coca-Cola's recipes look different from European standards, other additives and additives are allowed as well as in the USA. And that's what worms the company. It is similar in other areas – it is a very broad range – and therefore the highest interest, not only in US, but also in European large companies, regulatory cooperation, cooperation and harmonisation of regulations, rules and laws. Ladies and gentlemen, if DuPont, Monsanto, BASF, Bayer, Syngenta or Nestlé do, then you can say, okay, these are the interests of industry and large corporations. However, we parliamentarians must see that people's interests do not come under the wheels, not among the wheels of these groups – which represent their legitimate interests, but we have to represent the bourgeois, bourgeois interests, namely, first of all, to really protect the precautionary principle. This cannot and must not be abolished in Europe. This is a great achievement, which is also recorded in the European Treaties. The precautionary principle is not a lip commitment by any green or ecological and socially oriented Members, it is part of the European Treaties. It is part of our common legal basis. The companies want to: Accelerating the approval of genetic engineering constructions, and they want to introduce this mechanism of action. They simply want to enforce these rights, and that is, to achieve political power! [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly! That's also inside CETA!]] If one can complain of states, if one has direct access to regulation and laws, that means more power for the corporations, less power for parliaments. On the other hand, we must act openly and clearly, ladies and gentlemen. And if the Commission goes here and publishes brochures – my colleague Walser has shown this very well – and brochures are distributed in schools, which clearly tell the untruth, and which is financed by European taxpayers, I say: Stop, Minister! The government has to say a clear stop, and I hope that the new Minister for Education will put off such pamphletes shortly. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: We must clearly stop CETA here in Parliament, because this is a blueprint for TTIP, and we must also withdraw the negotiating mandate from the EU Commission. This will be the challenge of the next weeks and months. And as a basis for this – that is the last thing I say, Mr President – we must immediately launch the parliamentary survey with civil society, which my colleague Glawischnig has already called for in the presidential term. That's the point! As a Member of Parliament, we can then make a personal contribution to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11410	It's incredible how long the last sentences can be. Next, Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11434	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Much has been said about the two free trade agreements, and I do not want to repeat it now either. I would like to talk about three fundamental points that concern both the National Council and the European Parliament, in my opinion, all of Europe. The first term is self-confidence, the second term is courage, and the third term is indeed also transparency. In all three areas, we can start directly in Austria and can also carry it to Europe. I really do not understand what has been said by the liberal and the Green Group, because it sounds very compassionate to me, it sounds very small, it sounds very weak. It sounds as if we are not powerful in Austria and we are not powerful in Europe. Sometimes I come almost the tears when I listen to you – however, I do not know if I should laugh or cry. [[Abg. New builder: Do you need a handkerchief? – I’ll take one!]] The question for me is indeed: Why is that so? Europe has a value added of $3,000 billion higher than the United States. We have more than 180 million inhabitants – and hence, from the point of view of a free trade agreement, consumers and consumers. The US is twice as large from the surface – that is the only thing they can actually bring with them in terms of free trade at relevant sizes. We are at least equal partners in negotiations with the United States. And that's why it's so complicated: because Europe is in a different negotiating position than usual. It is not a developing country where we specify the conditions, but it is a long-term, long-term process. I can only tell you, here in Parliament and for Europe: More self-confidence! That's what I want. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The second point I have raised is the question of courage. What comes up with criticism here – from the claim that the European Union will anyway bring us the worst, about the demand for an immediate termination of the negotiations, some of which do not know the outcome – leads from my point of view to a status quo in which we want to persist. This leads us to say today that our economy, the field of innovation, the field of jobs, the link between Western democracies in the next 20, 30, 40, 50 or 100 years should not move at all. That's what you want. You say that a further deepening of cooperation – and a free trade is per se only a further deepening of cooperation, the results of the negotiations are not fixed, but it is about cooperation – you do not wish to do so. You do not want to wait for the result, but to reject it. If this understanding had prevailed after the Second World War, there would never have been the Europe we are experiencing today. Then there would not have been the prosperity we have today, and then many states in South and Central America, which are on the way to prosperity, could not have taken this path – with all the demolitions that have existed in history, but it is a way forward. And we're negotiating the rules of the game right now. We don't know them in detail yet, and that's why we can't refuse them either. So: More courage and more visions for both Austria and Europe! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The third point, which is our own housework and which I often discuss with our European Parliamentary Angelika Mlinar, is the question of transparency. This is not a story between the United States and Europe, but it is a matter of Austria and the European Parliament. It is not easy for us – even those who say that free trade is in itself a good thing if we negotiate it properly – to represent, support or discuss the concerns towards the population, because many intermediate steps are missing. It starts with a banal matter: I need three, four, five weeks until I get 90 minutes of reading at the Ministry of Economics – 90 minutes in which I actually do not have any work equipment with which I can research, because I could send out information with that, and I have no opportunity in the ministry to ask perhaps even an expert or an expert. What does it help me if I get negotiating positions or partly also completed chapters if I can't talk to anyone about it when the room is set up in such a way that you can't work properly, and if the advocates don't cooperate? I wish that those constructive forces, who also want to see the result before they vote on it, discuss it together with the citizens. I believe that 70 percent rejection is no reason to stop the negotiations immediately, but 70 percent rejection is a clear task to enter into a dialogue and to do a serious job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11483	Mrs Winter has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11504	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. So I have to say what is being said on this issue today is already very big cinema. That's what I've done. Not expected at all. And most of all, I have been surprised by the statements made by Mr Mitterlehner, who has clearly and clearly expressed himself for TTIP and for all other trade agreements in this respect. Well, I don't know if it's in 21. The standard of the century is that in the national Parliament information can only be obtained in such a way that you can sit in a chamber for a limited period of time for two hours, not to mention these documents, let alone that you can only talk about them with someone afterwards. That this is to be seen as a normal development of the contract, I would like to ask very much. Of course, I knew that the NEOS spoke for TTIP. Perhaps Mrs Mlinar can recall a discussion in the Committee on Petitions last year, where she clearly and clearly explained to me that the dairy farmers of Austria are already looking forward to this agreement, because it will only make everything better. I already questioned that at the time, and this statement has generally led to laughter. Anyway: We're talking about a free trade agreement. That alone raises a certain question, because we have free trade and the tariffs between the USA and Europe are relatively small. If we say that we want to strengthen free trade, then I wonder why we support sanctions against Moscow and why we do not engage in more trade with China. What this free trade agreement brings us is quite clear: They are special rights for transnational corporations, and they are also self-authorisation laws for capital interests, and at the same time Parliaments are dissatisfied. And what do we get for it? – Gen food, hormone meat, poisons in skin creams, poisons and chemicals in children's toys and this special jurisdiction, which has been addressed several times. If many believe there is no difference between Europe and the USA, then I can give you the figures of a small statistics: And although eight dangerous substances are banned in the US, in Europe 1 328. So who does this TTIP, CETA and TiSA use, and what else? – Clearly the reindeer hunters in the upper group days. What we are losing is our precautionary principle, because the risk principle that exists in America and that then overshadows us – and that is inevitably the case – is already very much in question. In America, in principle, everything that is produced can be allowed once, and it must only be proved in retrospect that it is actually dangerous, and then it is banned. In Europe, exactly the opposite is true, we have the precautionary principle: We must prove first and then we must first produce and put on the market. In this context, the decision on the glyphosate, which has recently fallen, is also to be seen, because glyphosate is no longer carcinogenic and no longer dangerous and no longer harmful to health. If you were to stand on the point of view that this is actually the case, you would in the past turn down glyphosate and Monsanto this cock, and that is why you take these decisions now. The population as such really does not matter to all politicians, as it seems to me, in part. I would like to express great praise to Greenpeace, who has actually revealed these documents under great difficulties and brought them outside. After all, 500 million people in Europe will be affected, and a total of about one billion. If you say that we don't know and don't have to decide and first see what comes out, you have to consider: The population has been aware of this for a long time. This is seen on the one hand by petitions that have been brought in, on the other hand at TTIP demonstrations both in Graz and all over the world. I would like to comment on the following for all people who are interested in TTIP and the like and who also want to express their opinion: ==References== May takes place at 1 p.m. at Bregenz Station, such an international demonstration, and I would be pleased to see many people there. Final sentence: TTIP certainly promotes unbridled predatory capitalism and is the Sargnagel of Social Democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11570	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:41:01]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11592	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[12:41:14]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 8253/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11804	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 8253/AB to Question 8616/J by Dr Pirklhuber, colleagues on Glyphosate – (K) a poison on our farm by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11827	It is proposed that the debate on points 5 and 6, 7 to 13 and 15 to 17 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? – That's not the case. That's why we're going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11852	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 128, FPÖ 119, Green 100 and NEOS and STRONACH per 52 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 26 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. If you want to agree, please give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:43:15]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1096, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020 and the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and the Federal Financial Act 2016 (1120 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11895	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. I do not recognise any wish for reporting, so we are going into the debate. First word message: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11922	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! According to the current financial plan 2017 to 2020, which we are debating today and which is the government's budget roadmap, new debt is expected to amount to only € 2.1 billion in 2020 compared with € 5.7 billion in this year. Public debt is expected to be only 76 percent compared to 84 percent we now have. This is quite ambitious at first glance, therefore: Let us look together at how this Federal Government wants to achieve these objectives with its four priorities, which it has written in the financial framework! The first priority is the “implementation of the major tax reform 2015/2016 and the additional wage reduction”. Since January of this year, we have seen how the impact of this tax reform becomes visible in the budget. In contrast to the announcements of the Federal Government, these results are very disillusioning. Although wage tax revenue is lower, which is good for taxpayers, energy taxes, for example, rise blatantly, by 70 percent. For example, the Court of Auditors takes a clear decision: ‘In fact, the collection of energy taxes leads to a financial burden mainly for households’. – In the clear text that means: This tax reform is paid back by people themselves. That's exactly what we told you last year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, you have also hoped that increased consumption will increase revenue on sales. They've estimated 8.4 percent. Now we see that revenue only increases by 4.8 percent – and that only because you have to get 2 billion € tax money for the refugee miscarriage. This also had to pay the taxpayers before. So even with this revenue tax effect you have expected, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, it is nothing. I am not yet talking about these €1.9 billion in compensation revenue from the fight against fraud and this unwarranted register obligation you assumed. Professor Felder, the President of the Fiscal Council, has pointed you out quite clearly: You'll have to be glad if only half comes in. On the basis of these factors alone, it is seen that these financial frameworks and the budgetary policies of the Federal Government as a whole are on which they stand. Let's go to the second point. That's where you write: ‘additional impulses in the fields of internal and external security and measures to address the refugee situation’. – I consider this euphemism “refugee situation” to be extremely inappropriate, because it is a crisis caused by the Federal Government grossly negligently by the border opening for migrants from all over the world. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From a budgetary point of view, I do not understand, and I do not at all understand why you can calculate these €2 billion that we have to spend on dealing with this crisis from the structural deficit. This was a wrong decision of the Federal Government and has created a structural problem which will cost us summaries in the next few years and will also be enormously burdened in the next budgets. What we could have done with these €2 billion, I dare not imagine, ladies and gentlemen! I am thinking only of the funding of universities, of investments in the economic location – all this is not happening. This also brings me to the third point: ‘Forcing future investment to strengthen’ of the economic location. – Write that yourself in your strategy plan. Of course, that sounds good and is also urgently necessary, but what is it really like? – We only need to look at the last international comparison: On the “World Competitiveness Scoreboard” of the Swiss University of Economics IMD, Austria has already dropped four places to rank 26. Another interesting detail: In this comparison, Austria is particularly poor in the areas of administration and government policy, because there we are only 39 international. That is to say, Austria is falling further and further down in the field of new investment. Real economic growth and the creation of new jobs are hardly yet recognizable. This shows that it would have the power of this government to make improvements – but nothing happens at all. So I come to your fourth announced point with which you want to achieve your goals: ‘Continued structural reforms’. - Continue? Structural reform? How can we talk about a continuation of something that is not at all happening? – A structural reform is not even possible in Austria in the last ten years! I really wonder how you want to achieve anything. [[Abg. Fekter: Did you sleep the health reform?- Oh, my God!]] – But that’s exactly the point, Mrs Fekter! The social, pension and health costs fly us around the ears, the public debt reaches dizzying heights, the bureaucracy is getting more and more out, and in the promotions we are world champions. We're world champions in the promotions. [[Abg. Fekter: The health reform is asleep!]] In addition, we are committed to federalism, which is expensive and inefficient. I am sorry, but I cannot see real, sustainable structural reforms here in Austria through this federal government. [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] The exact opposite is the case. We only need to look at the transparency database, where the federal states do not yet feed data at all. That means: Reforms will be postponed until nothing is left of them at all. A little detail on the edge for the people who now hear us at home on the televisions: Today at 8 a.m. in the morning, there was a brief discussion in which the opposition was informed that the Federal Government would today submit a 45-page amendment to the staff plan on this financial framework, which we should look at quickly. – This is how the Federal Government is working here and that is how it works with its own financial plan for the next four years. So, unfortunately, this is not a forward-looking financial plan, as we urgently need it. In the financial and budgetary sphere too, the motto of this government seems to be: Reform blockade and standstill at all costs.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e11992	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12014	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider, it is the same every year. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “And daily the Murmeltier greets”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] Each year, the opposition in the preparation of the budget, in the preparation of the federal financial framework, said: The result will not be kept, the revenue will not come as they are budgeted. – And each time we lie better. The 2015 budget has already been decided in the Budget Committee, and we recognise that we are much better off achieving the structural zero deficit already in 2015 and not only in 2016 and in the following years. So we're better than we imagined. Of course, it is not to be denied that we face difficult situations. We had 4 on the 4th. In May the Committee on Budgets held a public expert hearing in which the experts clearly had different approaches, but then came up with some joint assessments, such as how to deal with the flows of refugees or how to solve the issue of rising unemployment. Mr Haider, it is obvious that the fight against fraud is not likely to lead to counter-funding for collective reform, tax reform from 2016 onwards – with a very large amount of €5 billion – in the first year. But it will certainly be possible in the long term to implement this counter-financing, which has been budgeted. There have also been some preferential effects in 2015. We need measures. Mr Haider, on the subject of structural reforms: Many reforms have already been made, but it is not always a big throw, but it is individual measures. In part, of course, it is also such measures – such as health reform – that will reduce costs in the coming years to probably beyond the financial framework. We also have a prelude – and this is also necessary – to strengthen the economy in such a way that we also bring workers into employment again. With 500 000 unemployed, with a very high budget – I would almost say over €1 billion – for the active labour market and for bringing people back into employment, it must work a little more efficiently. It can't be that we make money available for something, but then it can't be noticed in the end. We will reduce the additional wage costs by € 1 billion by 2018. After all, we have also discussed in the Financial Committee: Is it enough? Is it the right approach? – I think this is the right approach. I also think that this will ultimately help the economy – although not today and not tomorrow – and we will also be able to bring more people into employment again. Some key figures should also be mentioned: We will hopefully be able to keep the structural zero deficit by 2020. The Federal Minister has now taken another step to which I would like to congratulate very warmly: It has reached a principle agreement on this really exorbitant ITA story. The liberals, who always stand out and then criticize the budget and say that the financial framework does not fit, could have excused the taxpayers for what they have done to them with the liabilities in Carinthia and the policy for Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] The Minister of Finance is always working on a solution in this regard. Therefore, we will also be able to keep the structural zero deficit. We will also be able to reduce debt below 80 per cent by 2020 to 76.6 per cent, especially now, as a solution of the hypo disaster is within reach. Finally, I would like to extend my heart to the staff members of the budget section and to the new section chief, Mrs Mag. Berger, thank you. It has fully supported us in our preparations for the Budget Committee. However, I would also like to thank the budgetary service, which, with its analysis, always provides Members with a very broad and good basis for parliamentary work here in this House. Finally, I would like to thank the colleagues who, although very controversial, very fierce but very constructively debated in the Committee on Budgets. I think the Committee on Budgets is a good example of how to exchange different opinions but can ultimately deal appreciatively with each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12081	Now comes Mr Mag. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12118	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Mr Haider, if you were to find out here and ask yourself the question of what could not have been done with these 2 billion euros of refugee costs, I would like to say two points: Firstly, you would have obviously left the refugees and asylum seekers in the rain, leaving them to their misery. That's point one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] Point two: It is already the question of what could not have been done with the so far more than €5 billion put in the sand for the hypo. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haider: With the voices of the Greens...!]] It will not stay with these €5 billion. And who is responsible for that? – The FPÖ in Carinthia! That's how it looks, colleague. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haider.]] Moreover, it was not the decision of the Federal Government to calculate the costs of the structural deficit, but rather a decision of the European Commission. Please note! Mrs Tamandl, if you stand out here and say that the result of the budget is better every year than the opposition claims, I would like to point out that last year I pointed out that the estimates for tax revenue had been reduced by €1.5 billion, and that I thought this was wrong at the time. There was a margin of 1.5 billion euros. Secondly, I have pointed out the enormous scope of the interest rate. So if you create such spaces in budgeting and planning beforehand, it is not surprising at the end of the day when you get better results. Moreover, this also applies to the always false calculations of the structural deficit by the European Commission, and this also applies to the structural deficits contained in this financial plan. So you should not be surprised if you get better results. But let's start in a row! This financial plan is initially based on a better result for 2015. That was most gratifying on the one hand. On the other hand, however, the question arises whether the overperformance of a structural deficit is necessary given the fact that the unemployment rate in that country is higher than ever. Would it not have been more sensible to use this surplus, which has resulted, to solve the problems we have in this country? – On the one hand, there would be the problem of unemployment, but on the other hand also of the financing requirements that we have in the future. As an example, I mention only the school for which this financial framework plan has continued to provide a budget of €500 million for the coming years. For 2016, relief is announced, a solution is envisaged. But how does child care look? What does it look like in science? What is it like in research and development? And how does it look in the climate? – The words “Climate Summit in Paris” do not occur at all throughout the strategy report. Expenditure on the environment is falling. These challenges of climate change have not yet been met in the minds of this government. Against this background, I believe that we – and this remains in this framework plan – do not have an expenditure problem, Mr Finanzminister, but rather an expenditure structure problem. Where are the billions going in this financial framework? – They flow into the state defense, they flow to the Ministry of the Interior – around €2.5 billion – and more than €2.5 billion are still planned for the banks. Of course, I would also like to mention two positive areas: One is the integration of €500 million for the years 2016 and 2017; that is a good thing we welcome. But what is after 2017? What is it then? No more integration needs? – I tell you, Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP: Integration needs a long breath and does not end at the end of 2017. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The increase in funds for development cooperation should also be assessed positively. But if we put our finger on problem areas, the question arises: What is happening in the area of unemployment, the biggest problem we have to solve in Austria? – We will have two-digit unemployment rates according to the national definition in the years 2019 and 2020 according to what is contained in the Strategy Report – 10 percent. I think that's unbearable. The experts told us at the hearing in committee: The problem lies on the one hand in Brussels, in an over-restrictive budgeting, i.e. overloaded savings packages, but also in lack of investment – the experts have also pointed out this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] The Juncker plan is nothing but a pipe-creper. Let us begin to invest in this country and in the European Union! There is enough need, from the living area to the ecologicalization of the economy. In addition, of course, other instruments are needed, such as the expansion of labour market support funds. But we also need a reduction in working time as an instrument, because otherwise I do not see how we will be able to solve the problem of unemployment, which many people will fall into poverty in the next few years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] If you, Minister of Finance, say in your strategy report that the structural reforms would continue, I must ask all the serious questions: Which structural reforms are you talking about? - I can't see that. As far as financial compensation and federalism are concerned, I can already say to you today: It's not going to happen because the princes are blocking it. Education reform: Yeah, come on! Where is she? – Administrative reforms: You're not taking place. We have debated tax structural reforms extensively in the Committee – but where are they? Where is an ecologisation of the tax system for the relief of the labour factor? – The one billion € that Mrs. Tamandl mentioned is a drop on the hot stone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Karl Aigerger of the WIFO has spoken of halving the burden of the labour factor, but not of 1 billion €, and there can and must be the ecologicalisation of the tax system an essential building block, as well as a stronger taxation of the assets and at the same time the discharge, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ, the lower and low incomes. That's why it has to be done. Taxation on assets up, taxes on environmental aspects up and release of the labour factor with the focus on the reduction of lower incomes – this must be done. It is also necessary to intensify the fight against tax fraud, aggressive tax planning. It can't be that the big ones judge it and the little ones pay their taxes. That must be done! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One more word at the end, Minister of Finance: Please stop drawing horror scenarios in the area of pensions! The long-term calculations you present in your stability programme clearly show that we expect stable costs for the financing of pensions between 14 and 15 percent of GDP. [[Intervocations of Deputies Loacker and Peter Wurm.]] If you continue to call for your pension reforms, we are threatened by what is already happening in Germany, namely a pension system with poverty of age. We don't want that, we don't need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12216	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12238	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the Federal Financial Framework Act, there are three major framework conditions for this financial framework. The first part is simply still the impact of the financial crisis and thus the cost to the banks. My previous speaker Bruno Rossmann rightly pointed out how much money the banks still cost us, and not only, but above all, the Carinthian Hypo. [[Abg. Kassinger: A bit of the municipal credit as well! A bit of the municipal credit too!]] I should like to take the opportunity to congratulate you, not only on you, but of course also on the Carinthian government. I say once, we congratulate in October, when it is in dry cloths, but now I am congratulated for the milestone that it looks like an agreement with the creditors of the country's liability can be found and that there is finally the opportunity to get out of these country's arrests. If that succeeds, then this is really a great success, and in any case from my side to you and also to the Kärntner state government a congratulations. At least it looks very good for your efforts on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Whoever put this into us, we know. Seven countries have made a promise to assume liability for their national banks, and each country has always transferred responsibility for the stop button to which they have been told: You look at this bank, and when the risk gets too high, you push the stop button. – This has been done by all the countries, except one, namely Carinthia, and those responsible there were all the liberal finance councils, who are also known: That's Pipeberger, that's Haider, and that's Dobernig. These are, of course, those who had this stop button, who also had the order to say when the risk becomes too great, when the amount of the liability becomes too large for them, and to push the stop button. It didn't happen. The other federal states have pressed this button. Unfortunately, one sees this lack of political responsibility among the liberals, as you are unable to go out and say: [[Abg. Haider: You sometimes think you're not in the hypo committee at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] Yes, we bear the political responsibility for these costs, yes, we bear the political responsibility that the country of Carinthia, as well as all Austrians, must pay for these mistakes that we have made. [[Further calls from Mr Haider and Mr Kassinger.]] That would be good for you, because that would result in They are at least close to what governance means, namely to bear responsibility and to be responsible. You're still guilty. [[Abg. Haider: Nationalization without need!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Tamandel and Mr Fekter.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second of the framework conditions is the economic crisis and the related unemployment, which was a direct consequence of the financial crisis. Our colleague, Mr Rossmann, is perfectly right to see that the unemployment figures and, above all, the forecast in which this is going are certainly unacceptable and that it will be one of the main tasks of the Federal Government, not only today and tomorrow, but also in the coming years, to ensure that unemployment does not rise, but also that more Austrians have a job that can be lived on. This is certainly the central problem that we need to take care of in the next few years: to reduce unemployment and to see that the Austrians have a job from which they can live at the end of the day. The third framework condition has also been addressed: the topic of refugees, the subject of migration. In this respect, there are also a number of expenditures in this financial framework, particularly with regard to integration aspects – that is simply to say, we are taking money in order to promote integration, which will certainly be an essential issue – but also with regard to the issue of security policy. Today in the early hour, there has also been a debate on objective and subjective security feelings in Austria, and what is certainly necessary is that there is a corresponding increase in security resources, so that security is improved objectively on the one hand, but on the other hand, the subjective security feeling that has certainly suffered very much in the past few weeks. This cannot always be demonstrated in hard numbers, but it is certainly very important that every Austrian and every Austrian in our country can feel safe and secure. It is for us in politics, no matter which party we are, of course, a key task to ensure that people feel really safe in our country. In this context, there will also be funds in the future. Another important point, particularly on migration and refugees, is the increase in funds for development cooperation. Of course, it is essential to first create peace where war exists, but it is also essential to improve the economic situation globally, so that fewer people feel that they have no perspective in their home country, which creates migration movements. There, development cooperation is not the only solution, but certainly an important building block. The question is not only how much money we invest, how much money we spend on development cooperation, but how well it is invested and whether the situation on the ground is really improved in such a way that fewer people say they want to walk in the supposedly rich West or Europe because they see a perspective at home. It is certainly an important signal that we are improving the use of development cooperation funds in this context. The third point, which is very important to me, is what we all heard from our grandparents, namely: You – that is, the children, the grandchildren – should go better than us. – This means, of course, especially for young people, the chance of education and education, then the chance of social rise and of a self-determined, relatively carefree life. This is also one of the main challenges, because if I look at the situation of my generation and compare it with the generation that is 20 or 25 today, then it must be said that it is harder and its prospects and possibilities are lower than with my generation. This is also a central point: that politics, regardless of where one is in which party, must really ensure that young people and children have at least the same, if not better, opportunities and perspectives as was the case with one's own generation. There's really a lot left to do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12342	I call Mr Klubobmann. Dr. Strolz. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12363	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! We are negotiating the financial framework by 2020, i.e. the perspective on how we are dealing with the tax money in the next few years. And I think, Minister, we agree that two things are very important: on the one hand, responsibility and sustainability, on the other, courage and confidence. I would like to talk about these two areas. With regard to responsibility and sustainability, I believe it is important to have a clear look at the question: Where are we up-to-date? – If I want to plan something – that’s what each of us is about building a house, creating a bicycle or something – I need to know where I’m currently standing so I can make the right decisions. Where is Austria up-to-date? – We have the highest unemployment for 70 years. We've had the highest government debt for 70 years. We have a reform blockade in many areas. Unfortunately, we have not brought the educational reform to the stage as announced after a one-year negotiating phase in November of last year. We have actually cancelled the pension reform. We have huge challenges in the area of integration, which are not yet properly addressed. We lack the solutions and concepts. We have a great longing for security in the population. And we have huge outrages in areas such as the health sector where people are increasingly feeling, for example, when they are sitting in the ambulances, that there is a lot wrong that we are drifting more and more towards two-class medicine. These are the challenges we have. Now the question is: What of these – problems, challenges – is pictured in this financial framework over the next five years? – I therefore welcome the investment in security. One could now discuss: Are the individual investments the right ones? – But I think it is important that we take the issue of security seriously. This is important to people, that is important to all of us, and there will be an investment. In all the other areas, Mr Minister, I do not see you going into responsibility and sustainability. The only sustainability that this financial framework highlights is a further debt. We will also put €5 billion in debt next year. The 54th. Year in a row, we make sure new debts. We will make new debts all the years to come, of course, on the back and in the backpack of the next generation, which is already faced with all the other issues – the highest unemployment, the highest public debt. I don't see we're going to do meters in the health field. There would be a need for federalism reform for a sustainable movement. That is what the Court of Auditors says, we say NEOS. I don't see we're making meters in the field of education. Mr Minister, I find it unheard of that we have gone to the budget year with a cover of more than half a billion euros and will not close this gap in the next few years. In no other area is so sluggish, as responsiblely budgeted as in the field of education. This also shows, of course, that this does not seem to be a priority for this government. I do not see that there are reforms in the pension area, on the contrary. On average, Mr Rossmann, we add almost half a billion euros per year to the pension area. This means, of course, that the area is not permanently established. [[Abg. Rossmann: Do you want to suspend the increase? Or what do you want?]] – I would like a reform so that my children can also rely on the system. [[Abg. Rossmann: System of Age Poverty!]] It's still out. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: But your system pushes in poverty!]] – We need to talk about poverty of old. That is why, of course, we need a reform. Even today's generation below 45 will land at a pension of about €1 100, if not less, and that lays the bridge towards poverty of old. We need to talk about the first, second and third pillars. You refuse to do so as a green person, and I think that is just as irrational. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Rossmann.]] With this, I switch from responsibility and sustainability – both not sufficiently perceived – to the category of courage and confidence. Mr. Schelling, you were our “NEOS” in the government if you want to. I've always found a lot of you, of you, very positive. Yesterday, there was another view of light: Mr Kern spoke in words and in confidence, as we share them in many areas. On the one hand, I am confident, but on the other hand, I fear that what happened to Minister of Finance Schelling, namely that he will be slowed off by the princes of darkness, from a shadow government of the non-returnable possessors, will happen under a German Chancellor's core. On the one hand, the non-inhibited possessors are the historically highly-deserved social partners, but unfortunately no longer to be used. They are increasingly a real damage to this country because they are slowing down everything we need from movement and reform. And, of course, it is the heads of state who, in a self-centered self-center, who is looking for the same thing, are slowing down everything that this country needs, and anyone who wants reforms here, so that, unfortunately, a Mr Schelling could not move again. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Today, Minister Schelling, is another such day. I do not understand how this historic opportunity could be left out to take the princes of the country, the heads of state into duty. For the first time in the history of the Second Republic, the Federal Government signals: We take full responsibility for the decisions of the federal states without looking at them. I think this is a tragedy, after what happened in Salzburg, where you speculated at €1.5 billion, after what happened in Carinthia, and going beyond what is going on in many communities at speculations et cetera. And you signal: We'll take it all! The taxpayer pays for it, he has to "peck it", he burns like a luster! We could have said, as the taxpayer now pays all of this : [[Abg. Hanger: That's not true!]] If we do, we want to reform federalism in return. This window, Mr. Finanzminister, will never open again, and that you have not gone through today, but just so close it at the expense of taxpayers, I do not understand. This suggests the suspicion once again: Probably the shadow government of the possessors was stronger than the will of the reform. That's why I think – and that's what we'll discuss tomorrow: It is no problem with the individual people – I guess you – it is a systemic problem that this great coalition for Austria is simply no longer functional; it does not deliver, it is increasingly becoming a damage case.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12461	Mrs Nachbaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12482	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear tax collector! Unlike my previous speaker, I think much of federalism and little of centralism, there must be only clear revenue and expenditure responsibility, as there is indeed a need for improvement. The strategy report on the Federal Financial Framework Act states: “solid state finances are a prerequisite for sustainable economic development and for social stability”. The question now arises: What does “solid state finances ” mean? – Unfortunately, it is spent more solidly over years than ingested. Even in the previous government constellation – unfortunately solid – for years failed to implement really big reforms. But as our Minister of Finance always rightly says, without basic structural reforms it will not be, and we know that. One is thinking of the pension system, which is the largest expenditure item in the budget at all. While pension expenses are rising more slowly this time than feared, we need the money anyway, in the case of strengthening our police and our federal army. I very much welcome this extra expenditure, because it is the first task of the state to ensure the integrity of its citizens, the people of the country, that we owe it to the citizens of that country. [[Abg. Lugar: You did it before!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: First cause and then fight!]] We also owe the citizens of this country to finally end this anti-economic course of the former Federal Chancellor. According to the last EU economic forecast, Austria is now only in the number 21 out of 28 in GDP growth, and record unemployment will continue to rise in 2017 compared with the trend of all other EU countries. We urgently need to do something for the economy and thus for jobs in our country. We must not suffocate entrepreneurs by regulations. At the last plenary, I have already mentioned a few examples of how many entrepreneurs are going through the labour inspectorate, and now I have another example: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] In a production plant in Lower Austria there is a prescribed emergency exit, which is by chance in the flight snow of an airport. Now, in fact, the labour inspector comes on inspection visit and demands the entrepreneur to change and move the emergency exit, because it could actually happen that in the production plant a fire breaks out, the employees take the flight through the emergency exit and just at that moment a plane falls right over the emergency exit. [[New calls from the Abg. Peter Worm.]] It sounds pretty funny, but it's not funny when you're the businessman. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] There's so much time and energy going on, much failure would be if you could focus on the business. After all, it is business, the economy and the hard-working people who finance our generous social state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] The first press conference of the new Federal Chancellor is optimistic about me, he says he relies on boosting the economy, on data and analyses. That's what we need: more data, analysis, less ideology. I hope that under Mr. Federal Chancellor Kern and his very promising new team, SPÖ will now have to have real structural reforms with the ÖVP. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lugar.]] We are dealing with site-friendly, unbureaucratic economic policies, balanced budgets, a reasonable education policy, and education must also be worth us. I therefore particularly welcome the appointment of Minister Hammerschmid, a very successful woman, who has also expressed his support for tuition fees. Performance must be rewarded again, and with the right economic policy, our country can come to the top again. – I wish you every success for this restart. Finally, Mr. Finanzminister, I would like to congratulate you very, very warmly, that you have succeeded in bringing the hypo-alpe-Adria nightmare to an extrajudicial end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12574	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12595	High house! Maybe at the beginning very briefly to Mrs. Rebaur: Ms. Rebaur, if you can create everything possible, you probably forgot that you are in the ÖVP and the ÖVP is part of a coalition, a government. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And if you have a problem with the Minister of Economic Affairs, talk personally to the Minister of Economic Affairs or to the Minister of Finance or perhaps to the chancellor of the SPÖ, whoever that may be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] Then please speak internally and do not bother us with your opposition criticism from the government work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Now on the real topic: We are talking about the financial framework today, and it is really very remarkable, and this is what Mrs Nachbaur has said, that it is very important that we invest in security and take over the €2 billion in order to finally tackle the problems we have in the country. Only, where do these problems come from? – The problems are caused by themselves. This has caused the Federal Government by leaving all the people in the country who are now making problems. Now one goes here and invests the money that we would so urgently need for education and other things to clean up. And it's not like you get smarter and say, Okay, now we have to clean up, we have to take 2 billion €, then at least we close this hole through which the problems come! – That would be about as if you were a homeowner and have a narrow basement, and instead of closing the hole, invest money in stronger pumps; that’s what you do. That is, you invest in security, but without ensuring that new refugees do not come to the country unbridled, which is proven – there are statistics – not all, that is not a question, are also criminal and cause problems. Why Saying You don't: The ceiling has been reached, too, Mr Finanzminister, you are the one who has to pay for it. And there is now this law, it was also decided with our help. Why hasn't the emergency been called out yet? What else are you missing? – Hit Once you open the papers, I have “Austria” here, I have the “Kronen Zeitung” here, you pick it up! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Every day we read about all kinds of criminal machinations, from rape to body injury, right street battles are now delivering these cultural richers in Austria. And what are you doing? – You invest money in additional security instead of solving the problems. That's my criticism. If you say that's all you care about, you just have to make sure that money flows, then that's not right. You are not the accountant of the Republic, you are the Minister of Finance! [[Abg. Oils: And you're from the past!]] A wise finance minister has once said that the financial policy is the policy cast in figures. That's exactly the point, that is, you can influence incredibly much with the design of financial policy, but you don't or don't want it. That is why, Minister, as far as the savings are concerned, you always say that there is no money there, except, of course, for refugees, but otherwise there is no money. We have a situation in which we pay 5,000 different subsidies, from the municipalities to the countries, to the federal government. Her predecessor once said that there are 5 000 subsidies, and she has no idea who is paying off. Do you have any idea? You will speak again today. Tell us! Do you already know what the state is spending funding for? That would have been precisely the transparency database that your predecessor, Mr Pröll, has thought about and has not yet been implemented. There is no transparency. The state doesn't know where the money is going. He also does not know about the countries. 30 billion € will be spent without you knowing what to do. There we would have enough potential, only the district captains would devour summaries. Have you ever talked about the county captains, whether we need them? Do we need so many district captains? These have been made at the time to enable any citizen to come back to the county headquarters without staying overnight with the horse car. Do we need this today? – You could probably close at least half of it. Now there is the financial compensation that you would have the opportunity to influence it. Do you? – No, you don’t! What you are doing is negotiating a comparison with the HETA, the hypo-degradation company, and Mrs Nachbaur and all those who have spoken here, including Mr Krainer, are very happy. Well, is that great?! – 90 percent get creditors. I can still remember that not too long ago these bonds have stood at 50 percent, and then have bought the speculator who now get 90 percent of you, and you justify that by saying that now the uncertainty is gone. For whom is the uncertainty gone? – For the taxpayer, because the taxpayer was totally insecure, he still believed: Maybe I'll come out with a blue eye, maybe I'll only have to pay 50 or 60 percent! – Now the uncertainty is gone, now it pays 100 percent; the 90 percent plus the side costs that you have caused. That's how it looks in this country! That is, when it comes to clarifying one thing, resolving uncertainty, then the only thing that is certain is that the taxpayer pays everything and the others are with the money over all the mountains. We have seen this at the hypo, and we are unfortunately now also seeing that at the resolution company. That is why, Minister of Finance, be a little more courageous! I know it's difficult with the ÖVP, there's a lot of whisperers, there's a lot of spheres of influence, there's an incredible amount of concrete that you have to remove before you can move something; I know that of course. They've been in office for some time now and it's getting more and more tiresome, I know. But now it might be that a new chancellor is giving you a little courage. I hope that Mr. Kern will bring back to you the enthusiasm you had at the beginning, because at the beginning we have thought a lot of you – we are still doing that now – but unfortunately, in the efforts of the levels, a lot has been lost. That's why: Find that courage again! I hope the new chancellor gives you a little help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12656	Mr Schelling spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12679	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A brief comment on the HETA, Mr Klubobmann Strolz: Of course, the federal government does not assume any liability for any of the federal states or for Carinthia; that is to be said for clarification. [[Abg. Stroll: But in fact!]] – Not at all in fact, nor in the fact: How this is handled, read when it is present, and then make a judgment! Do not judge before you even know what has been agreed in this Memorandum of Understanding! The second is – if you say, Mr. Klubobmann Lugar, that it is traded here – that: Yes, of the €11 billion, €1 billion is traded on the market – of €11 billion one! All the others are not on the market, are with fixed investors. [[Abg. Lugar: They were also sold under the hand!]] And if you look at what the cash offer looks like – and no one needs to take this bond that we have offered, no one is obliged to do – then the offer, like you, everyone else already discussed many times, remains in the 75 percent cash offer; that is the contribution the creditors have to make. As regards the federal financial framework, there are two distinctions. On the one hand, Mr Haider, we must distinguish between the budget implementation and the federal financial framework. I would just like to point out that there is no link between the 2016 budget implementation and the 2017 to 2020 federal financial framework. I have already said that the federal financial framework was difficult to create at first reading, and that it is imperative that we now get a boost towards structural changes in the budget, which is no question at all. And that we need reforms, that is beyond doubt for me. We therefore have to take this path, because even if we have to face a structural zero deficit over the entire period of the financial framework, the debt continues to rise. In fact, the debt will be reduced by the HETA, but that is not a structural effect again, but it is an effect that we have just filed before. As far as security is concerned, I believe it is right to invest there. Mr Rossmann, you know my opinion that I too would have liked to invest differently, but at least there is a six-party request from Parliament that the German army should get more money. This is where you gave me a decent package that did not make the negotiations more difficult. That is why I believe that in all areas, this also applies to education, we will have to discuss how much money we are pouring into the system and what comes out. And because you're always talking about this educational gap, please look at the fact that we have the most expensive system with the lowest output! For years, the Ministers of Education have been signed in all possible side letters that reforms are being made. I am not prepared to budget funds without the implementation of these reform efforts now. I hope that the new Minister for Education will go in this direction and ensure that the necessary reforms are made, because one cannot be – and I do not think anyone who speaks of this budgetary gap – that money in the administration comes instead of with the children. We all want the money in school to reach the children, and then the education system gets better. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] I have already pointed out in the Committee that we should not now make the mistake of the fact that, in the middle of the negotiations on financial compensation, an uncompleted educational reform is taking place in the middle of the budget, which we are once again forced to work out the funds, because they have already been announced. It is better to re-dead at all times than to take it out again, otherwise we have played any kind of negotiating position. I understand that criticism comes over and over again, and I can also understand many of the criticism points, but we should also take the path to bring two or three points in the right direction. It is true that we have record unemployment, but it is also true that we have record employment. It is true that we have to go through research, but we are one of the few countries in the European Union that have already reached the 3 percent research rate. Now, of course, you can argue: We're still away from the target! – Yes, we are away from the target, but we are on our way there. So that this is also clarified: Most of this 3 percent comes from tax money. That's public investment, and that's good. That is why I believe that we should be positive. By the way, we have risen three places in the innovation ranking when we are talking about the rankings. And those who are always talking about up and down have arrived in the meantime, I think, also in some kind of sandbox strategy. I have already mentioned the promotions that have been addressed at the last time. I now agree with the countries that funding in two areas, namely energy and the environment, will be transparently included in the database, so that we can see whether funding actually achieves the effect of funding. I can guarantee you that if this instrument is suitable for controlling funding, I will certainly convince the federal states that all data will be fed in. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stroll.]] Mr Klubobmann Lugar, if you would like to know how the funding is spent, I recommend that you read the country funding reports once. I do that and in many cases I am extremely surprised at what is being promoted and how and where. [[Abg. Lugar: Prevent it!]] That this needs to be changed, I'm totally with you, that's not a subject at all. I therefore believe that we have taken the first step with the transparency database well. On the other points, it is necessary that we – I believe that this has also come out in the hearing committee – have a well-balanced federal financial framework and that we have compiled it on the basis of the data available. At present, it looks like the assumptions behind the financial framework are stable and that we are presenting this financial framework with caution and balance. However, I believe that in the final negotiations on the budgets, it is necessary to pay very close attention to where priorities should be set and whether framework conditions have changed. This will be the task to be undertaken immediately after the decision of the Federal Financial Framework in the budgetary negotiations. If we look at the package of this federal financial framework as a whole, for example, in many areas funds that we could have used differently have been used in security. The question was, of course, where these resources come from. These funds come from where, for example, we have less expenditure due to lower interest rates, for which they have just flowed into security. Now one can discuss whether one would have had other possibilities for these investments. And if it is discussed here that all this was caused only by the refugees, it must be noted that this is only a sub-area, for you yourself have said in your request to the Federal Army without reference to the refugees, all six parties want more money for the federal army. Now I hope that the Minister of Defence will use this money to make sense. The last point that is important to me – I have already mentioned this – is: We have invested much more money in integration. It will be necessary, but I also demand that we proceed in such a way as to verify the impact of this money. I have already mentioned an example in the Committee: If we take German courses, I would like to know if these people can also get German, otherwise the money would be wrong. Therefore, all ministries now entrusted with the creation of German courses have been asked to prove that these funds have been used properly and effectively so that the goal of learning German is also achieved. For all areas in the budget, it is expected that in future the measures – whether they are the case in education or in another area – will be reviewed whether the funds are used in a meaningful way. They have mentioned the labour market – and I therefore conclude this issue: Yeah, that's a big, serious chapter right now. We are giving even more money to active labour market policies, so I also demand from the Minister of Social Affairs and the AMS that they prove that the funds that are being invested will lead to more employment and not to the management of unemployment. That's an assignment I've given. As the Ministry of Finance, we are on the Board of Directors of the AMS and will also implement this request there. I therefore believe that all Ministries are invited to use the funds in such a way as to ensure the result that is expected by the use of these funds. And if it is not so, I ask not only at the country level, but also at the federal level to understand that the Minister of Finance will not be willing to invest additional funds if the problem is not solved but only relocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12756	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Greiner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12778	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate on the Federal Financial Framework Act is about the financial policy preview for the years 2017 to 2020. What is the current starting point? What is the situation like in spring 2016? – Yes, we need reform, but we can start from a state budget with stable figures; and despite all the challenges, the budget is in Austria. The European Commission is always overestimating the structural budget deficit. We're getting better and better. In 2015, there was a structural budget surplus of €2 billion. In my contribution to the Federal Financial Framework 2017 to 2020, I would like to address three essential questions: How does labour market policy develop? What happens in education? What is the importance of research and development in Austria? It is fully in line with the intentions of our new Chancellor Christian Kern that the reduction of unemployment is the highest priority. The current federal financial framework provides for additional resources for active labour market policies, More than €300 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In particular, long-term unemployed will be given a chance to re-enter the labour market through training measures. Furthermore, a particular focus is on improving the quality of training, especially for young people. At this point, I am entitled to table a amendment tabled by Mr Tamandl, Mr Krainer, Mr President of the Commission, on the staff plan. This application concerns the fields of education, but also security and justice; the subject is already known. This amendment creates the necessary legal framework in order to be able to actually occupy the planning sites. There are several thousand planning sites in the areas already mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, an Agenda 2025 – that is, forward-looking in the long term – is a key issue for increasing expenditure on research and development. The Minister for Finance has just mentioned it. With regard to state-funded research and development expenditure, Austria is now the top priority in the EU. On the topic of education: It can't be that young people can't read meaningfully. Vocational training, university training and thus research and development are essential conditions for the competitiveness of the domestic economy, the economic location of Austria. Assuming competitiveness: It is quite common in Austria to draw comparisons with our neighbouring country Germany over and over again. I ask you to understand that, just before the start of the European Championship, I do not want to make a football comparison, but we are indeed far below our value very often. Why? – We are at the forefront of the social indicators. Our pension system in Austria is one of the safest in the world. The pension budget for the next few years is secured because the reforms are already taking place. We really do not want to compare with the social consequences of the resin IV policy that has led to the poverty of the elderly, which affects women in particular. Our basic economic data are also respectable. Let us take a look at the index of industrial production: In Germany, this increase rose by 0.9 percent compared to the previous year. In Austria, on the other hand, it rose by 1.7 percent over the same period, which means almost twice as much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undisputed that great challenges and difficult tasks lie ahead of us, yet we have really good reasons to shape our future with optimism and positive basic attitude. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12854	The amendment was made on the basis of the size of the amendment in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG to the mandates. It is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e12967	Next speaker: Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13026	Mr President. Dear Minister of Finance! High house! Values Advisors! Fraud prevention and tax justice are an important part of the Strategy Report 2017 to 2020. However, the Minister of Finance understands something different from the FPÖ. Workers and small and medium-sized enterprises currently bear a much greater tax burden than multinational companies. Multinational companies are able to avoid taxes, local small and medium-sized enterprises and workers. This injustice, which we have already shown to the House many times, must finally be eliminated. Effective taxation at the place of value added and transparency are two key elements in the fight against tax avoidance by multinational companies. In particular, tax transparency is of fundamental importance here in order to ensure fairer taxation. Multinational companies that are based in the EU or operate business in the EU must be obliged to report country-by-country, in particular in terms of turnover, profits and paid taxes. These data should not only be made available to the tax authorities but also to the general public. This would strengthen the confidence of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises in the respective national tax system. Every citizen should be able to see where the big companies pay their taxes and how much they pay. Many EU Member States and the Chairman of the ECOFIN Council, Dutch Finance Minister Dijsselbloom, support this proposal from the EU Commission. What is the opinion of our Minister of Finance? – Mr Schelling is blocking the EU transparency of large companies with clear arguments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I quote from the BMF's written information to the EU Committee of the Federal Council of 11 February. May 2016, in the Minister of Finance Schelling, reasons why he is opposed to the tax transparency for large companies “This decision took place because (...) the risks to the companies concerned were considered disproportionately large. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling]] The risks addressed are, in other words, “the risk of misinterpretation by the public, which can lead to a negative impact on competition”. Mr Finanzminister, you are already right that the risk for the companies concerned would be great that Austrian taxpayers would finally know how little taxes the big companies actually pay. They stand out from the large corporations and “snack” the local small and medium-sized enterprises and the workers who are still waiting for the abolition of the cold progression. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What do you mean, Mr Finanzminister, by the danger of misinterpretation by the public? Do you have a problem with the opinion of the population? – What you call a misinterpretation of the public is nothing but the sound sense of the Austrian taxpayers, which you seem to fear. Finally, the Minister of Finance believes that a publication of tax data would constitute a breach of international obligations by Austria. Even the Netherlands, where the large companies find a very friendly tax environment, does not seem to have a problem with international law, but our finance minister, as a lawyer for large corporations, already. For our finance ministers, the fight against fraud is the introduction of the register obligation and the abolition of banking secrecy. I expect a finance minister to be the patron of the diligent taxpayers and not the attorney of the big corporations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I call on you, Minister of Finance, to end your resistance to the tax transparency of large companies. Finally, be committed to domestic and EU tax fairness!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13091	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13112	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My predecessor's speech on the large groups was not on the agenda item, I say that only for all listeners. If you, the liberal, are required to make all tax acts transparent, then explain this to the Austrian population, because you cannot divide this into large corporations and small taxpayers – tax act is tax act. And for that, I think there is still a debate to be held. I am not in favour of all tax acts being made transparent and public without intensive debate here. Big corporations are so easy to “smart”, which may sound a little populist, but is meant to be the publication of all tax acts. And that because our Minister of Finance is sensitive, I think that's right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Who says that?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fuchs.]] The BFRG, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020, which we are discussing here today, is not the budget, nor a planned convergence, but a control instrument for medium-term budget planning and budget development. The path sets the payout limits for the next four years, and this will give the resorts planning security how they can spend their money. But they can't do this after they think, but there's a clear strategic definition for that, and that's the strategy report. The strategy report is really exciting. [[The speaker keeps this publication up to date.]] This is how he looks, ladies and gentlemen, and you can read it on the website of the Ministry of Finance, www.bmf.gv.at. It is exciting, because it is strategic to define the objectives pursued by the department, how the effectiveness of expenditure is, and to carry out – the Minister has already mentioned it – that, if they fail to achieve the objectives, they are to miss out on their goal and think about it. In particular, I was interested in art and culture, which lives on diversity, regional offers and innovation. In the field of art and culture in particular, the promotions are often investment in economic value added. Think of publishers, think of technical equipment at the stages, costumes, stage images, as well as film productions or tourism, which especially appreciates our cultural offerings! There is here in the House of Consens about the need to bring young people closer to the culture; and therefore, Mr Minister, it is well-designed money if the museum visit for young people is free, because I know the following: Culture costs, but culture costs much more.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13167	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13188	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! In these 5 minutes, I'm only going to look at a chapter because it's up to now. I will have to make at least a few rhetorical questions as to the financial framework and subgroup 46, financial market stability, because we had – but not your employees – not yet a debate on the latest solutions, which were obviously fixed today, at least from a government point of view. Everyone knows what it is all about, namely, the forthcoming agreement with the creditors of the Heta, formerly Hypo. For me, it is currently not quite understandable how the claim of March 2015 – in some cases it is still a bit congested today – is to be maintained that no tax-euro is to flow into the hypo or HETA anymore. I have already understood this well at the time, and I have always expressly welcomed this debt reduction action, to this day. I believe that this was probably related to the Federal taxpayer, because it was clear that this would then have to contribute something about the liability associations of the countries. By the way, I think that's right and fair. The federal states have already collected so much from the stability levy, the bank levy anyway, and soon more than they would have had to contribute to the entire debt-cutting operation – without buffering it out now – but that was not enforceable at the time. Mrs Fekter, the former Minister for Finance, nods; we know in what real constitution we live here. I still think it is very, very, very, very, we don't use any worse words, very strangely, that the heads of state at the time had access to it at the same time and that at that time the negotiators immediately cut the claws on it when they introduced the bank tax. Well, they don't want to contribute anything, and that's, I think, one of the main reasons why now the claim that the federal taxpayer pays nothing more can simply not be maintained. We will probably exchange this again in a more seminary circle, but I really have to put the question mark in public now – be it. At 90 percent – I think the bill is even cheaper for creditors, if you calculate different and more correctly – you can no longer talk about great creditors' participation that was sought. How's the whole thing going? – Of course, it’s a problem – that doesn’t dispute a reasonable person – if on certain demands to the Hypo or HETA still pick the country’s liability of Carinthia – at least legally –; that’s quite clear. But if we calculate this now, then we realize that the 75 percent that were originally offered in the spring, without addition by the federal government, were as if Carinthia could vote this contribution itself when buying back. If one has considered the conditions carefully, one has already had the impression that Carinthia has already arrived there, especially in the area of the possibilities of financing from the Federal Finance Agency. We do not have anything to do with it, because of course they should also be able to survive, but in reality there was already a certain eye twinkling with it. The additional offer then went up to 82 percent, now it is 90 percent. I think they are even higher. The explanation of how it is possible that this should not be federal tax money, we are still waiting with excitement. I think that from the tactical position these creditors would probably have been more to be torn out. Why? – With regard to all the risks of uncertainties in the case of a complaint et cetera, which includes, if they do not comply, one must already expect funny and good in order to believe that this difference would be achieved in Carinthia. The risk lies not only in the so-called financial centre of Austria and in Carinthia, but also in the creditors, and they were not always safe. They were therefore not worthy of protection, because in the years 2004, 2005 and 2006 – which it is about – they could have recognized where they are investing. This was not a good regional bank, and Mr Haider's promises of liability were not worth so much, I think, when it comes to the economic scales. In this respect, this is really a very, very painful process, although everyone is now delighted – of course, first of all the head of state of Carinthia – that something has been cleared away. I am still waiting for the explanation of how to maintain, as I have said and summarized, that there should be no federal tax money inside. From the perspective of the creditors, this is a great story! 75 percent of them might not have taken them, but let's figure it out: We exchange these at federal or comparable terms, but they would receive only 0.8 percent interest for them at the moment. That's what it looks like. If you see this in 13 years – until they get the 100 percent nominal – then you end up at 82 percent in this way. So how you turn it and turn it: There's, I'm afraid, a large share of federal tax money inside. The bill will be such that the Federal Tax Payer will be left alone with a sum in the bidigital billion area and the creditors – depending on how you calculate it – contribute up to a maximum of one billion, possibly even less. I don't think that's a fair burden distribution at all, and I also think that more would have been possible. But I am afraid that the NEOS Group, which is probably going to speak as well, is right – with us – that the Heads of State, because they themselves should have contributed a little more, have joined you in a corset which you obviously cannot escape.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13264	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13286	I should also like to stress what Mrs Fekter said. I think it's about saying: What are we negotiating today, or what are we discussing today? The Federal Financial Framework 2017 to 2020 actually sets the upper limits that we set ourselves as a goal. Mr Rossmann has already pointed out that we here have the use that we are actually planning very carefully, that is, always planning with the aim of, of course, complying with this framework, tending even to interrupt. That we will do that in the next few years, I have the fullest confidence, especially because I know that Federal Minister Schelling will look very closely at the fact that these figures that we are deciding on today are also being observed. But what's important is: That means, we plan here carefully, already in the knowledge that we need, of course, spaces to play. At the same time, however, we have also set priorities which, I believe, are important and where we can touch a little more again. On the one hand, we have seen this in the personnel plan. In other words, this reduction in staff over the past few years will stop us over the next few years, because we will, of course, need additional officials in certain areas. What is important to me is that we will invest additional funds in the area of apprenticeship funding. I have already mentioned this: Of course, we can criticize the fact that we have young people today who have difficulties in reading skills. We can criticize this, but the question is: What do we do with it? – That is why it is important, I believe we are taking additional money into our hands so that we can really give these young people a chance to get into work. I think it is the challenge of policy to give answers here. We have set the goal of reducing the Maastricht deficit to minus 0.4 percent by 2020. We have also set ourselves the goal of reducing the government debt ratio by about 10 percent over the next few years. These are objectives, I think, behind which we all stand in terms of content, and that, I believe, also needs to be pointed out in the most negative risk scenarios available. That is, we are now calculating in risk scenarios, which also shows that the quality of budget creation has improved in recent years. This is a process that is going on constantly, and I think it is time and again necessary to thank the officials for the quality of the documents they provide to us. Of course, what it was about – which I think was an exciting discussion in the Committee – is different points of view: What do we do with the room we ourselves Is it possible to draw up on this proposal? – The Minister has already pointed out: In part, we use this scope for necessary investment, for necessary measures. The question is: What would happen beyond that? A little bit separates us from the political attitude. I would certainly like us to make greater use of the scope we have here for investment in the future, in labour market policy, from me also in infrastructure measures. I know that there are others who say: The goal must be to save as much as possible. I am not one of those, quite honestly, but I would wish that we would benefit more. Now to our colleague Strolz – he's no longer here –: If he personally calls me the greatest damage to the Republic, I find that a strong piece. He should not forget one thing: Social partners are people! Social partnership is something that needs to be worked out together, which does not come from heaven. It is people who work on the social partners. Today, if we have adopted innovative solutions in many collective agreements, if we achieve an export record in Austria year after year, because employees in this country and employers bring together meaningful solutions at the operational and collective level, then I really reject this allegation to the most vehement!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13341	The next speaker is Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13362	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Yes, Mr Vogl, as far as your closing plea is concerned, I think it may be right, just: She didn't arrive in the new century! You're still where you are, and you still have your old thoughts. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Don't forget the words of your new Federal Chancellor! Don't forget what he said yesterday: that everything that has happened in recent years has been without effect, and that everything that has happened in recent years, including social democracy, has been a blockade policy. It is committed to the economy and is committed to a principle of performance. In this respect, social partnership is not necessarily a principle of performance, because it exercises a protection mechanism and otherwise nothing at all. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] To the Federal Financial Framework Act: We have heard a lot about this too. We've heard a lot about what's going on in this country. We have also heard a lot from the SPÖ and we have heard a lot from the ÖVP, where it is also a matter of which Mr Fekter has also referred, that there is a strategy report and that the strategy is also defined in this report. Let us also address the issue of expenditure in this strategy. In this respect, we have heard a great deal about it, for example, from our side that the missing reforms are not addressed, particularly in the social system, that the lack of reforms in the education system are still up-to-date, that there is an increasing burden on an increasing debt ratio, and that the lack of reforms in the fight against mounting unemployment could not be addressed. As a businessman, as a businessman, it is primarily about one – and I would like to quote Mr Vice-Chancellor, who, so to speak, as a presentation for the new Chancellor: We need a new site package. I'm quoting him now: “We need a new site pact for Austria’s economy, which must be primarily under the focus of deregulation and bureaucracy reduction.” This includes the reduction of rules, for example by means of a 'one in' – two out’ rule or a time-limit of regulations.’ Now we have the case that this has not yet happened, that this is always a project and that the opposition's requests – unfortunately, no more economic drivers from the ÖVP in the room – are, yes, even the requests of Mr Matznetter have been shubled accordingly, in so far as they have been rejected. I think, especially in this story, when we talk about red tape and deregulation, we also have to expect: If we make it with this “one in – two out” rule, we will make the British way. This has made a savings for the British Government, but also for the entrepreneurs in the UK, of at least 3 billion. We should therefore remember that we are also implementing this regulation accordingly. We are overbureaucratised, we all agree in this room. We must become more competitive again, I am even one with the Federal Chancellor, who said that yesterday. I wish that, and I also wish we could get back to the top. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This should be of particular importance. Let's all take it seriously, and let's say, Let's dust this store and make it fit so that we're competitive again! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13439	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13506	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13527	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! I am dealing with science and research within the framework of the law under discussion, i.e. my area. I have a Déjà-vu, because when the figures were published recently, the then president of the unico and present-designed Minister of Education Sonja Hammerschmid signaled disappointment because her university budget was too low. It took 500 million more a year. When I came into office in 2011 – and this is the Déjà-vu – I was asked by various sides not to agree to the financial framework at that time, because it contained insufficient increases for universities. At the time, I pointed out that the university budget is being negotiated separately for three years, for the next service agreement periods, and I pledged that I would try to increase accordingly. At that time, the uniqueo did not demand 500 million, but only 300 million more annually. With the help of the university billions I could then negotiate, this wish could be fulfilled. Of these, 250 million were included annually in the next financial framework, just as now in the financial framework the increases of the 615 million that Reinhold Mitterlehner was able to achieve for the next period of the benefit agreement have been rewritten. That is, if you calculate both numbers together, then you would be 500 million; of course, you can't count. I can only point out that I hope and quote here again the Minister for Finance, who said yes: This is a vantage point, a frame, and it is nothing ground in stone. I can also hope here and point out that there will be further negotiations during the 2019 to 2021 service agreement period, and that the universities will certainly be able to see an increase again or hope for an increase, such as – and I am grateful to some previous speakers, especially Mrs Greiner – that we do not have too much cause for regret in this area. Of course, this area, science and research, is a very important area of the future to promote and finance well. But we're on a good way here. The Minister of Finance himself has said that we are now in fourth place in the EU, just behind three Scandinavian states and in front of Germany, which is making enormous efforts here. We still have a large part of the funding available to us. So we're on the right track here. We have well financed the Austrian Academy of Sciences as a research promoter. We finally put the FWF on safe financial legs. Here, of course, a wish remains open: The FWF, the most important sponsor of basic research in Austria, needs to be further strengthened! That's a wish. Of course, there is never enough money in this area, but the efforts are tangible and successful. I think this is a good framework for our area. I would like to see it fulfilled to the maximum and where it goes, to achieve further improvements. Then we do something very important and central for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13573	Mr MMMag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13594	Mr President. Federal Minister! At this item on the agenda, we are discussing, among other things, the Federal Financial Framework Act for the years 2017 to 2020, where the upper limits of expenditure and the expected revenue are defined for just these four years. We hear from the government over and over again that it is now time to start reforms, so to speak, in order to bring the country forward. If I look at the federal financial framework for these next four years, there is little to see from these objectives. Debts continue to be made each year. It is due to this plan, but I would like to say straight away: Paper is patient, and it would not be the first time these figures need to be revised, for example next year when the financial framework for 2018 to 2021 is adopted. This is not invented by me, but let's look at the numbers, for example for the year 2017: According to this, an expenditure cover of 78.2 billion is now planned; last year – the federal financial framework that we decided last year – it was still 77.4 billion. So this has already been corrected and raised by 0.8 billion. I do not therefore place great confidence in the validity and validity of these figures. One thing is clear: We will continue to make debt, which is significant debt. We are – this is a four-year plan – also far away from the strategic perspective from the objective that would in itself be appropriate to achieve a balanced budget in the medium term. I do not mean now this dizziness of the structural zero deficit, with which one can count a little healthy and beautiful, but the actual deficit. So the actual budget should be balanced – I don't see that here at all! [[Abg. Krainer: The administrative or deficit after Maastricht? Or which one?]] [[Further calls.]] The administrative or the Maastricht deficit is asked by the colleague Krainer. I'm pretty simple, I'm going here and I'm saying, What do we give or what do we pay for? What do we take? – I compare that, and if we pay more than we take, we make a deficit. It's relatively simple. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rossmann:... the numbers!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Well, maybe the note also, because we are already with you, to the jubilation about the successful budget implementation in the sense that your side will always rejoice: Now we have already achieved the budget performance better than we have foreseen or planned, so we will be better in execution! - Yeah, sure. Someone who knows a little bit about himself and has experience knows, you can of course put in a lot of buffers, both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. I think Mr Rossmann has already said this: Also on the revenue side, you can plan much more carefully so that you have the appropriate buffer. By the way: 2015 Special effects of €1.2 billion by increasing the capital income tax! [[Abg. Krainer:... said that's wrong!]] There is, of course, no great art, so to speak, to be successful in the budget implementation. The fact remains that we are still turning to the 5 billion deficit. Why is that so? – It has already been addressed by the previous speakers. If the Federal Minister here – I have written it down – also today says that there is a “necessary need for reforms”, we urgently need structural reforms, our education system is the “most expensive system with the lowest output”, then I almost already feel sorry for the Federal Minister. First of all, this sounds like your speech two years ago, and second of all, it is quite obvious that you cannot stand here – I quote colleagues Strolz – against the “inhibited possessors” of the Chambers and the heads of state. This is political reality. I do not agree with the effort at all, but in the end the result counts. The result – and this is also reflected in this budget framework – is a result of the standstill, the administration, in reality of the hope that there will not be worse. In my opinion, one should be in the context – because They also spoke of risk assessment – but one, two words are lost about risks that arise on the European horizon. We have signed – remembering it – for 20 billion € in the framework of the ESM, as I see large risks. I also see large risks in the development of interest rates. We are now in an extreme low interest rate phase. If there are only minor increases, then this whole paper is maculation because, of course, the higher the interest rate impact, the lower the interest rate. So if interest rates only rise by 1 percent, doubling, no, not quite, but increasing the interest rates, which already amount to several billions. [[Federal Minister Schelling:... is there an increase?]] Well, you know exactly that's final and they need to be renewed when they run out. In the same way, as it is now drawing itself in, it will in further succession – not immediately, of course, but slowly rising – bring much more interest on interest, where we are already paying a few billions, that is to say, for the past. My colleague, Mrs Dagenle, has already said that, and I would like to conclude with the comparison, and I would also like to address the FWF. At the beginning of his speech, Mr Haider referred to the costs of migration, and they amounted to €2 billion. For comparison and reflection only: For basic research, we spend €200 million in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13691	The next item is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13712	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Values Watchers in front of the TV sets! The Federal Financial Framework is planning the financial expenditure for the next four financial years. I would like to highlight a number of points, without a claim to completeness, which are of particular importance to the municipalities. As a local speaker, I pay great attention to it. It should also be noted that today the Federal Budget is to be voted on, but this does not indicate the distribution in the individual areas. Financial Balance Tag: This is reflected in the current strategy report, of course with open information, because the negotiations are not yet completed, they are still in progress. These negotiations will have a significant impact on the further development of our country. What is happening to the local authorities at present, what is of particular relevance to the municipalities? Municipalities are the most important public investor and thus also the train number one for economic development. The municipalities perform a number of financial-intensive tasks which are not always adequately covered by the federal government, such as childcare, minimum security, the integration of refugees and so on. All of this means a financial added burden for the municipalities. If we want the municipalities to continue to offer their services accordingly, we need to ensure that they are able to provide these services as well. The allocation of funds to the municipalities is not a one-way road. These investments will create jobs, strengthen purchasing power and remain intact rural regions. So every euro that is invested comes back several times. The financial framework also mentions positions of great importance to municipalities and regions, such as digitisation and the broadband offensive. And especially the example of childcare, for which appropriate funding is provided under the financial framework, could be shown how municipalities perform those tasks for which they are directly responsible – the financial compensation should therefore be task-oriented. Let us therefore give the municipalities the means they need to carry out their tasks accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13766	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13788	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! The outlook for the financial future in connection with the Federal Financial Framework from 2017 to 2020 also needs a close look at the challenges of the future. The challenges of the future are clear to all of us: from climate change and environmental protection to the issues of demographic developments to the digitization of the economy and, more specifically, to the current high unemployment rates. These are all areas that need our focus. It is precisely these challenges that need solutions, and we need education, research and innovation to come up with these solutions. That's what it's all about. In these areas, appropriate priorities must be set. In Austria, with our universities, with our non-university research institutions, we have a good infrastructure, quite clear, but also, of course, with strong companies that are good, forward-looking leading companies, such as voestalpine AG or Infineon, but also many strong small and medium-sized enterprises that need appropriate support, especially in the fields of research and innovation. Since rankings have already been mentioned today, I would also like to mention one: the Innovation Union Scoreboard. Ladies and gentlemen, we have lost a place every year in recent years. In 2009, we were still in 6th place, now we landed at 11th place. This should, of course, be of great concern to us, because there is a clear decision by the Federal Government to lead the innovation leaders. That was in 2011. And what happened? A place has been lost each year. Of course, this is also related to the equipment. If the Federal Government has set itself the goal of reaching a research rate of 3.76 percent in 2020, it is quite clear that huge sums are missing in order to actually achieve this. Since today, as much as Austria is very likely to invest in research, it should be noted that the innovation leaders such as Sweden or Denmark are very likely to invest much more, including research quotas, and of course there is also an order for the public to set up appropriate initiatives. If we go from absolute figures to structural analyses, we see that there are three sub-groups in the federal financial framework that teach research: UG 31, science and research, UG 33, economic research, and UG 34, transport, innovation and technology research. Two of these areas, namely the UG 33 and 34, are actually constantly being taught over the years 2017 to 2020. Considering the rate of inflation, that de facto means a minus. If you, ladies and gentlemen, add all three sub-groups together, then we are still at 6.24 percent of the total budget at the 2016 federal estimate. This will decrease to 5.99 percent by 2020, and I say to you: This is not feasible in future areas such as research and innovation, which can and must not be. This is a structural neglect of this so important area. You know that unemployment is a problem that we have to deal with with with with all the consequences – and this is one of the essential aspects of research. Today's research, these are tomorrow's jobs. We need to secure innovation. The Council for Research and Technology Development, which is the advisory body of the Federal Government, has presented a clear strategy that has been adopted. We believe that it is necessary to secure and implement them accordingly. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, including ÖVP and SPÖ: If you take your own goals seriously, decided by you, it is also time to support exactly this important future area in research.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13861	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13931	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13953	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to begin by congratulating the Federal Minister on the Memorandum of Understanding, which has been presented today. I think it's a very important step to deal with the hypo disaster. There is a lot of strategy there, there is a lot of expertise there, and this is very good for the Austrian taxpayers. For the financial framework 2017–2020: I do not think that the environmental conditions under which such a financial framework is to be drawn up are the easiest. All – all local authorities, all trade ministers – want more money. [[Abg. Kogler: Why? They pay yes!]] We have relatively low economic growth, that is, of course, tax revenue does not rise as we would wish, and we have to cope with the refugee crisis. I think the financial framework has been very successful in its approach. Why is that so from my point of view? – On the one hand, it continues to be consolidated – that has already been said – so that at least the relative debt decreases from 86 percent to significantly less than 80 percent. One does not lose sight of the balanced budget, the development of the budget deficits also shows in the right direction. Of course, we have European financial market stability, which is very important on the one hand, no question at all, but on the other – some previous speakers have already mentioned this – there are, of course, also very important offensive measures for our Austria; the security offensive or the labour market package have already been addressed. A very central task of policy is to keep the 50 plus group of people in employment or to consider how we can get them into employment. I am here with the Minister for Finance when he says that, of course, we have to question labour market funds: Are they actually effective, do they actually create employment? Of course, every Member of Parliament has his horse: I am very pleased about the digitalization offensive and I would also like to address it. We have presented 900 million € in medium-term financial planning for broadband development alone. On this occasion, I would like to mention that the programmes developed in BMVIT are also taking place. They are actually relatively simple: Austria has been classified on a map in areas where the market is expanding, and in those where it does not expand and where the public hand has to intervene. The programs LeRohr, Backhaul and Access grab hold, the market is stimulated, and I really have a good feeling in my region, too, that there is a lot going on. We cannot get rid of digitization, which will be a very important, very central issue in the future. I also believe that we need to discuss the challenges that come with digitisation much more. Professionals will disappear, new careers will come. I think we should talk much more about the opportunities that digitalisation brings us in Austria. With the broadband billion, we have excellent conditions for this in the infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e13989	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14011	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Hanger has a good feeling – and therefore it seems to me to be the financial framework too! We discussed the subjective sense of security this morning, we are now discussing the subjective financial sense, and the subjective financial sense of the Federal Government is good. – That's nice! [[Abg. Lichtenecker: “Subjective financial sense” is a nice term!]] If we take a look at the figures and go to the objective situation, however, this could damage the subjective feeling. The share of pension expenditure in the overall budget increases from 23.7 per cent in 2013 to 28.5 per cent in 2020, which means that soon one third of the budget for pensions will go up for a scrapping pension system. [[Call the Greens:Falsh!]] Although the dynamics has been dampened in comparison to the last federal financial framework, this is only because of the fact that a different inflation rate has now been used. If you have a lower inflation rate, of course the increase in pensions is not that strong either. Looking objectively, Austria is ill: If we look at the share of pension expenditure in the total budget, we are in the fourth place in the European Union. Behind us are Greece, France and Italy, but even these countries – not exactly the hearty states – will have overtaken us by 2060 when they implement their sustainability concepts as they have already been decided there, and then we are the last ones. However, the Federal Government shows itself completely resistant to advice on all pension issues. No matter what the Monetary Fund, the OECD, the EU Commission or the Court of Auditors say, all the advice will be lost. With the subjective financial sense, the labour market looks similar. Mr Minister, you have said that you will see that the Social Minister, with the additional money in the labour market budget, provides for qualification. However, he cannot, because the increase in unemployment benefits – unemployment benefit and emergency aid – is so high that on the qualification side the funds are reduced by 3.3 percent. In other words, we have more unemployed people, and we have less money to qualify for them, so this block of expenditure is shrinking, and at the same time we are implementing parallel systems. The Court of Auditors has long criticised the parallelism of emergency aid and minimum security and calls for its resolution. It is common for two authorities to take care of one person because someone gets emergency aid and increases to minimum security. So he gets money from two sides, and that could be delimited. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My request is therefore addressed to the Federal Government and to the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP: Solution From your subjective financial sense, turn to the objective facts! – Unfortunately, these are terrifying.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14082	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14635	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14656	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The budget framework also includes revenue, and I would also like to speak on the revenue side. Who brings the tax benefit, who develops the prosperity in our country? – the bearer of prosperity, the Taxation are the skilled workers, is the specialist work. We owe the well-trained, highly motivated skilled workers very, very much. With regard to the next few years, it is also about the fact that this know-how, this experience, will be passed on to professional research. That's a big concern to me. The dual education system in Austria is exemplary internationally. Over 80 percent of apprentices conclude the teaching positively, in 2015 10 700 apprentices completed the teaching positively with Matura. This is a very great success for the economy, for the employees. I think it is also important that there is enough boy for the teaching profession in the future years when the career growth becomes less, the years are getting smaller. I would also like to mention the large number of Austrian prize winners in professional research competitions. We are lonely, and I would like to congratulate the winners and also the training companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, expenditure raises the question of which level – the federal government, countries, cities or municipalities – can deliver the benefits better. This task orientation must be strengthened. I can also address the challenges of the Austrian cities: They stand in international competition, have investment needs in the social, educational and cultural sectors, in transport networks, and not least – very important – as an economic and workplace location. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax reform has been mentioned in the discussion: It brings more purchasing power to the Austrians, they can afford more and thus revive the economy. This is internationally unique at this time. Nevertheless, Austria is not an island of the Blessed. Austria is also affected by the illegal and legal tax avoidance of large corporations and super-rich. There is an urgent need for action. Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian social partners have made Austria one of the best countries in the world. The social partnership has proved itself to be very well established internationally and is also a model throughout Europe and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14701	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14723	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council – you like it for a while! [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, exactly!]] Minister! High house! The budgetary situation in subheading 30, education, is not satisfactory. We're not all happy. We have a structural deficit that we Greens have been expecting for years. We have already predicted it to you at a time when it was still disputed – two years ago, three years ago. Then it was admitted in the course of the year. At that time it was 300, 330 million €, today we expect about 550 million €. I don't think that's fair. Yesterday we heard from the new Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor that we must re-examine the policy, that we should have a new constructiveness, and then, I believe, we should not close these facts and finally eliminate this structural deficit. Of course, I am right for the Minister of Finance when he speaks of the fact that in the field of education we are reducing relatively much money; that is right. The main reason why the Court of Auditors always expects us to do so is a structure in this realm, which is more than just a need for reform – in contrast to what colleagues from NEOS unfortunately repeat again and again: This structure is scrapped. On the other hand, I think that the structure of the pension system is as ill as it has been done by your side as it is, I think, without responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scherak: Great!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] But let's get back to the area of the school: At the school of the ten- to 14-year-olds alone, we have a three-member system, and this, of course, devours money. We have huge amounts of expenditure, we are in the top range in the OECD comparison, but the output is not right. Of course, we also have structural problems in Austria, the Minister of Finance will say, a relatively low teaching obligation, all of which plays a role. But now we do not want to start this hourly discussion again, but we should finally come to a system in which we calculate the annual working time of teachers and get into a situation where we have compulsory presence in schools. We are talking about school 9/15, and we are convinced that in this context there would also be a lot to do with a uniform school system. Ladies and gentlemen, how urgently necessary this is also shows the pressure that will come to us in autumn, namely, financial settlement negotiations. We will, of course, have to come up with a solution with the federal states. We will have to eliminate a structure in which we have school-keepers in the area of the municipalities, the countries and the federal government – all of which, of course, does not serve an efficient administration. If I read as a recommendation to the Ministry of Education, the efficiency potential in the teaching organization should be made more effective and there should be a restructuring of the resource allocation, then at least I have to think for a while until I understand what is meant, and I now understand it, I think it will be brutal: This means larger classes, which means closing small sites, which means limiting additional offers such as promotion lessons, free items and so on. You can talk about all of this, but in the area of a great solution, and do not ask again as a Hauruck action, which is as safe as the Amen will come in prayer in autumn. We need to invest in infrastructure, and the best infrastructure is still education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14785	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). On. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14806	Mr President. Federal Minister Schelling! Ladies and gentlemen! We discuss and decide on the financial framework for the coming years, which is so exciting and interesting, because we also make adjustments, adjustments not only in terms of labour market, integration and education, but also in terms of something that is especially important to me and many, many Austrians: This is the subject of security. And that is good, because the security situation has changed dramatically. Many people are concerned, and I would like to make a clear statement on the issue of external security. There has been a motion for a resolution by all the parliamentary parties on the subject of ÖBH 2018, necessary budget adjustments and reinforcements. The financial framework for the coming years now implements this unanimous all-party resolution request. The Austrian federal army has very clear tasks in external security. As a member of the National Defence Committee, I can say that I am in favour of this, I am pleased that the appropriate funds will now be ensured. However, I also have to say that there has been very efficient, constructive negotiations between the Federal Minister of State for Defence and the Minister of Finance, and that SPÖ and ÖVP have really succeeded in bringing something to the rails, namely to create a decisive change in the way they deal with the refugee crisis, but it is also, in general, also about combating terrorism and taking appropriate measures. This security billion, which will be available only to the Federal Army on the issue of external security, is also a welcome one when it comes to creating new jobs. In times like this with up to 500 000 unemployed, this is a good news. 395 jobs are still being created by the Federal Army this year, especially for soldiers in the active force, and this will sustain the force of the army. But there are also funds available for the personal equipment of the soldiers. This is about protecting body and life, I think these are well-invested funds for people who work in a very, very demanding, difficult and sometimes dangerous job. It is about modern combat suits, better helmets, fire resistant equipment, and it is about means of communication or, for example, night vision devices. But it is also about the mobility of the federal army. A army that is not operational, is not mobile, would be a misinvestment in itself. It is precisely a army that has to be mobile, and I can say that the mobility crisis that we talked about over a year ago has been overcome. However, the security billion will also be used for the militia, for a better equipment of the militia. This is a clear commitment to the Austrian federal army as a People's Army. This is very welcome. Finally, it is also about modern housing of our present servants and soldiers, i.e. 100 million euros will flow alone into the expansion, renovation and redesign of barracks. This also means quality of life and quality of living for those present and is therefore a very, very positive measure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14851	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14873	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to add a few words to the science and research budget, because I believe that it is definitely enough for Austrian universities as well as for students in terms of funding. In the same way, however, it must also be said that the March of free access to higher education is exactly that and that it is, among other things, due to the budget abuse that we have in this area. Among other things, this dogma is due to the fact that we have reduced the scientific location of Austria in recent years, until there is hardly anything left on the budget, and that the access to universities and colleges has ultimately made it unfree. We struggle with overcrowded disciplines every day and still have very dedicated rectors who continue to manage renowned universities and colleges and offer their students semi-acceptable terms of study. However, we also have a declining approval rate at the FWF, where one can only congratulate the new President Klement Tockner on his election. I hope he'll manage the whole thing, too, because the FWF has big problems. We have a declining allocation rate, despite an increasing number of high-quality applications. This means that it is now almost arbitrary whether a good application is accepted or not. Many programmes have been deleted due to a lack of money. Nevertheless, our researchers manage to deliver top performances. But we will not come to this research rate of 3.76 percent by 2020 – that has already been said by colleague Lichtenecker. Even if our universities do good work and we have top researchers in different areas, it must be said that this is not due to the committed science policy of our federal government, but despite the science policy of our federal government. This policy is simply unacceptable. It is unacceptable that for the next few years, the increases in the financial framework can be described as a statistical deviation. It is unacceptable that we will never achieve the 2-percent target of public funds if we continue to do so. It is unacceptable that, as an innovation follower, we want to continue to muffle and not give a commitment to a top research standard, just as it is unacceptable that in times of a knowledge society and of innovation drives economies, we still prefer aberbillions and millions in old structures, in a scrapping pension system or in military music instead of in the science system. It is equally unacceptable that black country heads of state can still build their own universities at their own doorstep in a disastrously scarce science budget, which can be argued with no need and ultimately must be co-financed at all universities and colleges. Unfortunately, these sensitive efforts, which my colleague Mrs Däderle has mentioned, are not enough. The fact that they are visible – you have to remember the word – is not enough in the face of such a serious problem. The path is relatively clear: We need more public funds, we need more private funds, but we also need postgraduate tuition fees. We need more competitive research funds. We also need a study place financing with access restrictions. The uniko has already predicted what this would cost: €1.5 billion from 2019 to 2021. These €500 million more per year are necessary to keep the operation alive just once in the way it would actually be called a minimal variant. I think we'll all look at each other in a few years and remember that when the last young physicist emigrated to America and the last dedicated rector then put his job on the nail, you can't do a science policy with air, love and nostalgia.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14918	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14939	Mr President. Federal Minister Schelling! This week was quite a sign of the restart: a new team, a new chancellor, a new deal. Yesterday, our new chancellor made a statement that should encourage us all to crush the sleeves. Christian Kern called for a New Deal. You can't stress that enough. We need a new style of togetherness, and we need to learn to interact again, listen to each other and develop more understanding for each other. Politics must bear a clear handwriting, and it does. We invest in education, in jobs and in safety, despite the old burdens of the hypo disaster and the biggest economic crisis. I do not want to repeat what my colleagues Krainer and Rossmann have already held today, namely that the FPÖ is the cause of this disaster and has the responsibility for it. However, I would like to praise the Federal Minister for Finance very consciously at this point, because I can imagine that this task he has is a very difficult one. Ladies and gentlemen, as a tourist speaker, I would like to emphasize very clearly the importance of tourism. This added value contributes considerably to the fact that Austria remains on track, especially in terms of employment in tourism has proved to be a source of crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] In 2014 we generated 15.5 billion € in revenue in tourism, and 2015 was an even stronger, better year. In principle, equity capital has also improved in enterprises, but I believe – and we really need to stress this – that only tourism creates jobs where there could be no value added. We are talking about 620 000 jobs in Austria. This corresponds to almost a quarter of full-time workers. This is a cause for joy, but not for celebration. We need more unbureaucratic and easier operational transfers. We need a better way for the hotel industry to deal with the booking platforms, and we need a new strategy in winter tourism. That must be known to all of us. We have great tasks ahead of us. We also need to integrate the people who have sought refuge in us as much as possible, and I am pleased that the integration stop for 2016 and 2017 has been increased by €380 million. There, I think tourism is also a key function. A quality feature of Austrian tourism is the safety aspect for our guests. For the period from 2016 to 2020, the Ministry of Defence will receive €1.2 billion and the Ministry of the Interior will receive an additional €625 million. This makes Austria safe and also interesting for our guests as a holiday destination. By the way – and this is very important and must never be forgotten – the tax reform has brought more than €5 billion for six million Austrians, 90 percent of which benefit small and medium-sized earners. [[Abg. Schellhorn: at the expense of tourism!]] This is budget responsibility, as I understand it. Finally, I would like to quote Willy Brandt, the former German Chancellor and Nobel Peace Prizewinner: “The best way to predict the future is to shape it.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e14982	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15003	Mr National Council President! Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I have looked at the Federal Financial Framework Act, particularly with regard to important future investments, especially with regard to the Paris climate agreement. The climate agreement gives us a very clear objective: By 2050, we must have made our economy, our way of life, our lifestyle independent of greenhouse gases. This is a great task, and We will only master it if, in the next few years, we set the appropriate course. It's quite clear: After Paris is not in front of Paris. That is something quite different, and so this should be reflected in our decisions. Even before the climate conference in Paris, in the last financial framework laws we have seen, the area of the environmental budget has been further written down. We saw the first impact in the 2016 budget. I think it is well-known that I am just saying that the thermal renovation is halving, environmental promotion in the country is shortened, climate and energy funds are cut short, promotion for water-ecological measures is deleted, which is no longer available. So these are all decisions that not only do not bring us closer to the goal but, on the contrary, lead us even further away from it. If you look at the financial framework that will reach 2020, this trend will be continued, simply written down in a linear manner. Mr Finanzminister, I think that it is grossly negligent to put this important future area together in this way. It is not responsible for the challenge of climate change. However, it is also totally reckless and irresponsible as regards securing the location in Austria and supporting the labour market in Austria, because, I can only say it on the example of domestic environmental support, every euro we invest in these programmes comes back to the budget with €5.7. So, it is not only a question of environmental protection, a question of climate protection, but above all a question of location and labour market policy. I do not think that this financial framework is sustainable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I therefore ask all my colleagues, including you, Mr Finanzminister, also the newly established Federal Government: Let's think about that! A restart was announced. In climate policy, we need a general restart. We don't just start with zero, we even have to pick up. We Greens have requested a wide range of measures: once the removal of all the climate-damaging subsidies for which the State is still spending money, then a whole series of measures to be implemented, starting with the ecologicalisation of the tax system, and many other measures that we have all known for years and days that we need to invest in. They were all postponed in the committees, no matter what. I have not yet received from the Federal Government a proposal for the implementation of the climate agreement. I expect that as soon as possible. We are ready to work together constructively. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I still have a tip to the new Federal Government: Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of Climate, Energy and Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15064	It's 3:00. I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda item 1. [[15:00:27]] Short debate on the response to the question 8253/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15085	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the order number 8253/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate in a moment. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker to state his reasons. I now ask Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15121	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister Rupprechter! Thank you for coming to attend this request meeting, you also say to give the necessary and detailed answers. What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? – Today or tomorrow is one of the key days for European environmental policy. At European level, the Standing Committee, which will decide, today or at the latest tomorrow, on the authorisation or new authorisation, the re-mission of glyphosate, the world's most widely used pesticides known as Roundup. Mr Federal Minister, before we get into the discussion, I would like to ask you, at the very beginning, whether you will comply with the recommendation of the Salzburg Government. The Salzburg Landtag has unanimously decided, ladies and gentlemen, unanimously – also with the votes of the ÖVP – on the following – I quote: “The Salzburg Land Government is invited to approach the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry to use glyphosate-based plant protection products at EU level for a ban.” That was a little bit about the starting point. But it is not only the Federal State of Salzburg, which has made such decisions, but also the Ladies and gentlemen, but of course also the state of Vienna, namely on our initiative together with the SPÖ. The country of Vorarlberg has also already adopted a very clear, unanimous decision on the precautionary principle and the guarantee of the precautionary principle, and the Carinthian Committee on Sustainability has also unanimously called for the ban on glycosate. This is the current situation in Austria and not uninteresting! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On edges: We have, of course, also made proposals here in the National Council, but unfortunately they have only been postponed so far by ÖVP and SPÖ. These have been in the Committee on Health for months, we had them recently in the Committee on Agriculture, which have not yet been finally decided here in the House. But, Mr Federal Minister, my question to She was – with regard to the request we have made to you under the title “Glyphosate - (K) a poison on our field”: What's going to be You personally, what will be Your place of business, what will the AGES do until today's meeting? Today and tomorrow, the meeting of the Standing Committee will be held to negotiate the renewal or re-examination of glyphosate. So, ladies and gentlemen, what is the Commission's proposal? – The proposal is to extend the authorisation by nine years. On the other hand, several countries – including France and the Netherlands – are currently experiencing high domestic-political waves in Germany, because Germany is likely to be included in the end, even though Germany is the country of the licensing authorities. Your answers to our questions, Mr Federal Minister, are completely inadequate, transient, and in part you have not given any answers at all. I will now simply give you the opportunity to explain here today what is actually the position of the Austrian Federal Government, which is actually your position. At question 13: "Will you order the representation of Austria in the Standing Committee to vote against an extension of the authorisation of glyphosate within the meaning of the precautionary principle? (...) If no, why not?”, you, Mr. Federal Minister, answered me as follows: Austria has ‘sent a written opinion to the European Commission’. Where is it? Have you ever seen them before? [[Abg. Moser: What's in there?]] - I haven't seen her until today. I have been looking for them on the homepage of the AGES: no idea, no answer, neither here nor at the request answer. They do not refer to this letter in any way. They have not made it available to us in the Committee on Agriculture. Nowhere can this opinion be found. So, what about the interpolation law now? Minister, number one: Give proper answers to the National Council! The honourable Members have a right to do so; do not forget this valuable duty as ministers too! That means: Give correct and detailed answers to our questions! A point is interesting, because you're saying: ‘If the claims are still not taken into account, Austria will not be able to ‘apply’ the EC proposal, i.e. the European Commission’s proposal. To date, no Member has received this letter, not even knowing what the demands you have really made. [[Abg. Moser: Do not even know...!]] With this answer, you would have had the opportunity to explain all of this in detail – and you contain it to colleagues. You know: Requests are available for the whole house. They are not for my information, but for the information of all the Members of this House. Mr Minister, in the future I expect myself and in your self-interest I ask you: Give detailed and complete answers! What is the problem with glyphosate? – The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is also in the interests of environmental protection, consumer protection and health protection, that it is a matter of offering the foreheads that contaminate us without harm, which contaminate us people with pesticides. Monsanto and the representatives of this industry seriously – and even in Austria – believe that there is a right of the corporations to contaminate people with pesticides. Ladies and gentlemen, this is so incredible, and I would expect a call from the consumer protectionists on the part of the Social Democrats. I know that two or three Members have already voted with us on self-employed requests and have also personally told us that they do not want glyphosate, but that is too little. The Austrian population is expecting a clear response from politics. Why? . Especially if there is uncertainty, especially if there is uncertainty about the effects of poisons, policy must be clear, Mr Minister, and give answers, namely political answers. What was your opinion from her first speech? – This is also reflected in the answer to this question: You said quite clearly in March after the Commission's first decision and the Committee. [[the speaker reads from a document again]] “This is a purely technical assessment, which is now being carried out by the competent experts, since the political level is in fact not to give any requirements (...)”. Yes, Minister, what do we do for what? You actually have the job as an Environment Minister when you say: As an Environment Minister, I do not give any regulations; this should be made by experts wherever they are – in some cases possibly in the AGES – and I will not give a personal opinion on this! Mr Federal Minister, I would like to remind you of the following: The precautionary principle is a fundamental principle in the field of licensing at all levels of operating resources in the European Union, it is part of the European Treaties, it is the basis of European authorisation. We say: It must not be allowed until it is safe and not the other way round if the damage is already there. And that's a situation that's incredible. There is no question that there is a great scientific dispute. Why? – Because the International Agency for Cancer Research of the World Health Organization has clearly stated that it is probably carcinogenic. And if an international institution says that it is probably carcinogenic, Mr. Federal Minister, then the precautionary principle is to put into effect. Although there are also Austrian studies that can prove that glyphosate has a massive impact on soil life and biodiversity, that is, negative in the environmental sense, if one knows that there are misappropriations in the private sector, ladies and gentlemen, then it is only right and cheap and in the sense of political responsibility to say no. Another thing: The comparison makes us sure. I quote today's issue of the French Minister for the Environment Marisol Touraine, who clearly says: ‘Le président de la République a dit tès clairement lors (...) de la dernière conference environnementale (...) que le glyphosate ne serait pas autorisé en France’. – Vous n’avez pas compris? – This is your problem, Minister, but I can repeat it: [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: J’ai pas compris!]] In France, in the light of this new negotiation, there will be no approval in the Committee. France will be available for health reasons No, because it estimates glycosate as a hormonally effective substance, so there can be no authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a clear statement from France. I would like you to be as clear as possible, Minister. Today, you have the opportunity to reply honestly and openly to all the questions you have not answered, such as my question, how do you appreciate that 96 scientists worldwide approach EFSA – I am ready, Madam President – and criticise that the EFSA directives are insufficient. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] You didn't give a reply, you just talked out to EFSA. You have the opportunity to explain your position again today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15213	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15235	Madam President. High house! In the context of this brief debate, I am pleased to be able to submit further information on the response to the question, which I believe has been very detailed. Now, as is usual and as foreseen in EU legislation, the active substance glyphosate, like any other plant protection active substance, is being re-evaluated in terms of its risks to health and the environment and its effectiveness in the context of a comprehensive, scientific-based EU process. Many scientific institutions are involved in this and are involved at EU level. The extension is ultimately a competence of the Commission. It is de facto a Commission decision involving national experts, and the institutions have dealt intensively with the risk assessment of glyphosate. The essential test criteria are environmental compatibility, toxicological properties and also residue behaviour. Germany, represented by the competent federal authorities, has carried out the review of the authorisation as rapporteur for the assessment and authorisation of plant protection products in the EU procedure. The final report prepared by the European Food Safety Authority was published in November 2015. ==References== A first expert consultation was held in the Standing EU Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed in Brussels on 3 March this year. Already in advance, the AGES, as the competent authority of Austria, submitted strict demands to the European Commission. These claims are the following: First: An equivalence between test material in toxicological studies and specification of the technical active substance is to be completed at EU level as confirmatory data relating to purity and impurities. Secondly, The impact on biodiversity in the authorisation of plant protection products with this active substance, at national level, should be taken into account. Thirdly, Restrictions are to be provided for pre-harvesting treatment, for the purpose of squirting crops in the area of cereals, which is prohibited in Austria and, from an Austrian point of view, is not generally in line with good agricultural practice. Fourth: Restrictions are to be provided for applications mainly in non-professional areas, home and small gardens. There is no need for any application, so there is a need for far-reaching restrictions. And fifth, Possible risks of sluggishing into groundwater should be taken more into account and taken into account. In Austria, the Agency for Health and Food Safety, the AGES, as the competent authority, has reported in detail on the state of the procedure. In autumn 2015, the AGES held a round table on the subject of glyphosate with all relevant stakeholders. Representatives of science, non-governmental organisations, trade and the representation of interests were invited and present. In April 2016, a second round table on glyphosate was held, while the current developments in the EU process, the Austrian demands and the latest scientific findings on the active substance were discussed in detail. Whether glyphosate is ultimately listed as an approved active substance in the Union depends on the further process at EU level. Today and tomorrow, you said it right, another consultation will take place at the competent committee in Brussels. [[in the direction of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] In any event, the representative of the Agency for Health and Food Safety, in short AGES, will not be able to agree to the Commission proposal if the strict Austrian requirements I mentioned earlier are not taken into account. Mr Pirklhuber, you know very well that the AGES experts must comply with the precautionary principle and be obliged to do so, so there is no need for an independent directive in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15276	The next item is Mrs Ecker. The speaking time is now 5 minutes per speaker and per speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15298	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There's a big reason to ban glyphosate, that's democracy. Today or tomorrow, as has been said, the direction decision will be taken in the European Union, which is not just about a herbicide, but also about who in the future has the say: the people or the groups. For years, it has been disputed whether glyphosate is carcinogenic or not; after all, it is about the most commonly used weed destruction in this world. Professional magazines, NGOs, politicians and many people break their heads and deliver a stamp exchange. From the political perspective, however, it is also about a clear attitude. For myself, it's quite clear: If there is only the slightest possibility of health damage or there is a carcinogenic substance inside, it is quite clear that there is a need to take a negative attitude here. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... French Minister!]] Democracy is the government of the people and for the people. If today, in Brussels, the democratic principle is sacrificed to economic interests, then we really must be the most concerned. Today, 240 000 signatures, which clearly support a ban, have been handed over to the Commission. I think the Commission is doing well to accept people's concerns. There are ordinary people who come to me almost every day and say: I'm not sure anymore when I eat a tomato, whether it's healthy or not. There are fathers and mothers who are no longer safe when they go over fields or meadows with their children or pets, whether that endangers health or not. I feel a great uncertainty about the people of our country, Mr Minister, and it should be taken seriously. Europe was founded on the foundation of listening to one another and, above all, working together, we want to maintain stability and peace. What goes on in large size must also apply in small sizes. If we take people's concerns seriously, it is therefore also important to ban cancer-stimulating substances in advance. I also believe, as my previous speaker has already said, that the precautionary principle applies. I am a Salzburg Member, and my colleague Mr Pirklhuber has already said how Salzburg's Landtag has decided on the subject of glyphosate. The Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety, called AGES, will be represented by Austria to the European Commission, and it has expressed itself as follows – and I would like to quote this as well: The AGES “has called for concrete restrictions in the sense of integrated plant protection in the field of pre-harvest treatment (sictation) as well as in the home and small garden areas”. You already mentioned this, Minister. For the explanation: The siccation is the squirting of the plants. Furthermore, the AGES is committed, among other things, to the fact that, as part of the authorisation of glyphosate-containing plant protection products in the EU Member States, attention should be paid to the indirect impact on biodiversity. It is now up to the Commission to present a new proposal which takes account of this request, otherwise Austria will not be able to accept the proposal. Mr Minister, this means that you are now waiting for the Commission's text to make a decision. I would like to appeal to you, and it is really my heart: Take seriously the concerns of people in our country, you do not agree to the extension of glycosate! Why is it so difficult to focus on people? Austria has a clear position to represent, and first and foremost people must always apply and come. I take you by word, Mr Minister, because you just recently said that Austria's agriculture does not need glyphosate. I agree with this view very clearly, Minister. Now let the words follow! It would be good if Austria put a sign and opposed the extension of the perhaps carcinogenic drug. Finally, I would like to make one point that confirms, in my opinion, how controversial the issue is and how different people behave. Shortly before the vote on glyphosat took place, a study has been performed that confirms safety. No one will be able to review this study in this short period of time – I myself, of course – and the head of the working group that published the study is also suspected of being in a massive conflict of interest. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] And that's why my stomach feels too. No to glyphosate, because there are just too many doubts. In conclusion, I would like to make the urgent recommendation to the Minister for Agriculture that voting be clearly considered, because the responsibility in our country, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and the people of our country, unfortunately, have the bad feeling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15354	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies on jewellery miners. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15375	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The feeling of the belly in all honours, but at the end of the day it should be the experts and the experts who decide on which we always call in other contexts, which is also absolutely right and essential. [[Abg. Brunner: No! The politicians are still making decisions!]] Expert experts on the subject of glyphosate – in the case of parliamentary speeches we have often experienced enough that not even the term is pronounced correctly – we must not call ourselves all. I am very glad that we have institutions in Austria, which can also be perfectly analyzed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] - Dear Leo Steinbichler, you know how I am: The Austrian agriculture and especially the arable farming are very diverse, which is due to the various soil structures, but also due to the various climatic conditions in the individual regions of Austria. That is why it is only obvious that we also need the various processing mechanisms and here also agriculture should make everything possible. I would like to address one area, which is specifically the question of special cultures in which glyphosate is also used. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] But we must not forget one thing – and there is not the panic of people who no longer trust to eat paradises or to go through fields and meadows with their pets: The question is where we are going with this development if we are constantly making production difficult in Austria. These are special cultures up to the Christian tree culture, where we of course have the Danish import, because the Christian tree has to stand. But also a very essential issue – and you should also consider this – is the issue of seed production in Austria, for which we need a phytosanitary cleanliness on the fields in order to produce the best possible seeds; there must be no beetroots. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: There are other pesticides too!]] And if you target the subject of glyphosate towards Monsanto, then you only fulfil one service here, then you are their helper, because if we no longer have seed production ourselves, then we are only quite delivered to these companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria, glyphosate is not applied to crops and crops of yield. That's what you should write behind your ears. If we look at these non-governmental organizations in their activities, then it is amazing how a template is discussed on some subject. Two years ago it was the Neonics, an essential, great success, today we have so much more bees. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] We also now have many cultures in which we have a lot more pesticide use than we have had with the more successful means – as far as the subject of glyphosate is concerned. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] In animal welfare it is the topics of bonding, hornlessness, aberration bays et cetera. But all of this is ultimately also a question of honesty and seriousness: What are the real causes of pain to farmers? – These are the markets, and we should look at who these non-governmental organizations are in bed with and who, in the truest sense of the word, have been capitulating, because they have become capital. Look at the donor lists, and then you know why they are constantly looking at the fact that we have to re-explain our production topics! Farmers are tired! We produce excellent food in Austria and do not deal with the market, which has created mechanisms in Austria that are anything but a free market for agricultural products, but we are constantly getting the problems in through the production line. We have solid frameworks in Austria, we have well-founded knowledge and experts. Agriculture must provide evidence of its expertise and the application equipment must be checked. So I look at that in another industry, so much is done! And that gives security to the Austrian population. Here we should not be unsure, but refer to the fact that we have legal frameworks that are really well-founded. I would like to thank the Ministry and above all also the AGES, because we have experts in Austria who control that we really only get high-quality, best food from Austrian production on the plate.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15472	The next item is the speech by Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15494	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This broadband herbicide, from which glyphosate is used Part is an explosive topic. We have now heard from one side always how harmful it is to the other that agriculture can no longer exist without glyphosate. I think that's how we should see it. We have – if we imagine a triangle – agriculture, health, as well as international corporations. Of course, it's also a huge business, you can't hide it like that. Of course, it is also necessary to understand the farmers; there is always this discussion between conventional and organic farming. If someone says that organic farming is just the right thing and conventional farmers aren't, then that's wrong. So where's the right way? – The so-called Glyphosate Task Force is a merger of 22 manufacturers and distributors, and they have applied for a new registration. Since then, of course, the discussion has started properly. If the WHO finds that the “weed killer” – under quotation marks – is carcinogenic, then I cannot say: They're wrong! If, of course, EFSA claims: That's not true again!, and then 100 or 96 experts are listed, who then say again: For God's will – that's a criticism – you really didn't recognize the cancer-enhancing substance in it!, then there must be one to think of. Now, of course, if we just rely on the experts, that's all: Whoever checks correctly is right, and the others who have also checked correctly would not be right. I have to say quite openly, so that we would really make it too easy. The application under the main term glyphosate is a diverse one. The question is whether agriculture can really be achieved without this broadband herbicide. We need to treat these, or we have to rely on alternatives to better plant protection. Mr Pirklhuber has been involved for a very long time, we have been spoiling for several years and saying that alternative plant protection products should be placed on the market. This might also make it possible for Austrian producers to benefit. Of course, if you see glyphosate as part of a food chain, I think of the sentence of Feuerbach: “Man is what he eats.” A reader, a dedicated farmer, writes that in Austria only the pre-seeding application is allowed to get hold of the altos without turning soil processing and so on. Conversely, however, it would be all the more necessary for 95 percent of soya and maize imports from genetic engineering Limit the use of such feed directly with glycosate by two to three times. Yes, of course, this is a great argument that this man brings. On the other hand, this points to the dangers of TTIP and CETA and to what we are dealing with. But at the same time, it says that it's only about the altos. But there are also microorganisms, living beings, and they are also inside this ground and soil. So I'll destroy them. Now, of course, I can say: Are we for biodiversity? – Then, of course, they are also included. I come to the last point that we may not have considered today, and I have respect for the statements of the ladies and gentlemen who have spoken in front of me. It is a question of the problem in general, how much poison the earth bears. If it is said that the farmers have the right to produce them, otherwise we will have to get the cheap stuff from abroad and our to people – it really can't be – but then you have to note that 140 000 tonnes of pesticides come to the fields of Europe each year, in Austria it was 10 728 tons in 2013, 11 325 tons in 2014, that is, almost 900 tons more. Please, where is the glyphosate going, what the scientists say it's so safe? – Somewhere it comes into the water, in the water it spreads, and water is also known to drink humans and animals – and so we get it over the food chain within us. So I'm saying, The aspect of health should not be ignored, and it should be reasonable to plan and carry out new productions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15563	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15584	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! My colleague Wolfgang Pirklhuber has made a comprehensive request for the approval of glycosate to the Minister for Agriculture. Mr Minister, you are right, the answers were very detailed. An essential answer, however, has been missing, namely that of your position. However, one question has been answered, which one of my previous speakers has already asked: Does Austrian agriculture come out without this herbicide? And this question is, as I said, answered, because you answered it yourself in an interview with the "Tyrol daily" with Yes. There are many alternatives. Against this background the question arises again why we are talking about such a herbicide, which is considered likely to be carcinogenic, in which the hormonal effects have not even been tested, now at all that it could be approved. This is a classic case for the precautionary principle that we have already discussed this morning about TTIP. Our club lady Glavischnig said: Well, a mother shouldn't have to prove after all that the snout was toxic to the baby. If there is a suspicion that a sniffer is toxic to the baby – just a suspicion – he must not be in circulation according to the precautionary principle. The same applies to this herbicide. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whether this is happening or not is a political decision. Of course, there are opinions from experts who, of course, have to be the basis of our decision. And by the way, I would like to know if many other topics include the assessments of experts, such as climate protection. In other words, we should have made very different decisions here in Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's a political decision. We were chosen to make decisions for this, and that is our responsibility now. We Greens have therefore tabled a very clear request which would have a clear Austrian position. - He's been postponed. There has been no decision in this House, but there have been a number of decisions, some of which have already been mentioned. There are many communities that have decided: We don't use this poison with us! There are a number of federal states that have made clear decisions that they do not want to use this poison, that they do not want glyphosate to continue in circulation. And there are also decisions from other countries; the example of France has already mentioned my colleague Wolfgang Pirklhuber. But Sweden, Italy, the Netherlands will also oppose the extension of the use of glycosate. The question is: What does Austria do? – That is still unclear. It is expected that Germany will unfortunately be included; that is to say, it applies to other countries, including Austria, whether this poison is still in use in the future or not. Mr Minister, I come to the crucial question in the answer to the question. You are just saying the question of Austria's position: ‘Whether glyphosate is listed as an approved active substance in the Union depends on the further approach at EU level.’ Yes, of course, but what do you do to influence this process, and what position do you refer to? It is not the Commission's decision, but today and tomorrow the Member States in the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health decide how we stand on this issue. I would have expected a clear answer from you and also a clear position from Austria. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] And even if it is a Commission decision, I expect the Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Austria to do everything in his power to influence this decision. Even then, I would like to know from you what position you represent in the name of Austria. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: I am not in this committee!]] We want in Austria an agriculture that can produce well that can produce healthy food. For that, there is no need for a poison – on the contrary – and it is our expectation that you will work for it. Furthermore, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of Climate Change, Energy and the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15649	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15670	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We already have the third emotional debate today, after the sense of security and the financial sense, the colleague Ecker has a bad glyphosate feeling with the paradeisers and walking through the meadow. Of course, it is wise to deal with substances that are produced to kill something. But chemicals are not only dangerous because they have a complicated name. Glyphosate is used because it blocks an enzyme that needs weeds to survive. The weeds have this enzyme and die, man does not have this enzyme and does not die. Is glyphosate now carcinogenic or not? – The IARC, i.e. the WHO's cancer research authority, says probably, so you should look more closely; so it didn't say it was carcinogenic. And the Federal Institute for Risk Assessment says: No, it's not really a problem. The IARC has a five-stage scale and does not examine the risk of cancer, but the potential of the substance. In the highest level, those with potential, among other things are sun exposure and wood dust. That means I can be in the sun for so long until it hurts me, but it doesn't hurt me to get into the sun. It would be no new knowledge to say: The dose always depends on whether something is toxic or not. For example, if you want to kill a rat, you need a lower amount of salt than glyphosate. Mr Riemer said: The glycosate also enters the water, and then we drink it. You have certainly also followed that the Germans have led this debate around beer. You have to drink 1,000 gallons of beer on one day to make it harmful to your health. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Then drink it once! Whether that's more toxic than salt, let's look at it!]] What can be read in the IARC studies: The quantities with which animal testing has been carried out corresponded to a very high glyphosate concentration, which is such a high which is not realistically used in practice. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is lobbyism of the worst kind!]] And by doing so, the power of the studies is limited. The Federal Office for Risk Assessment does not investigate the potential, but the Federal Office for Risk Assessment is studying the risk. And they say: “The analysis of the numerous new documents does not indicate a carcinogenic, reproductive, or harmful effect of glyphosate in experimental animals.” This is followed by EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority. So: Glyphosate can cause damage in an experiment, but it only causes such damage at such a high concentration as it normally does not occur in agriculture – in the case of reasonable use. So if you now demand a total ban on glyphosate, you also have to consider: What's the alternative? What is the substitution product used instead? conventional agriculture will continue to work with synthetic plant protection products, whether we are pleased or not. Of the products in use there are some that are much more worrying than glyphosate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] However, the restriction in the private sector is meaningful, as it does not make sense for me to impose restrictions in the agricultural sector and the private goes to the building market, buys Roundup and pours it in any amount where he wants. As a result, Austria could follow the Dutch example and provide for close restrictions for the private sector, but it could provide for a different scheme for the agricultural sector. [[Call the Greens:... if you can drink it, it's safe!]] What also casts a bad picture on history is when Monsanto is brought into the debate, because there are a hundred manufacturers of this product. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But Monsanto has already paid for institutions to fake studies!]] This also means that with the equation of glyphosate and Monsanto, a campaign will not be debated, but a campaign will be conducted – and that will damage the material debate. Mr Federal Minister, you have not caused this inconsistency, but you could make a contribution to the improvement by inviting experts for hearing in the Committee on Health and Agriculture. I believe that this would take a lot of wind out of the sails and bring us on the content. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15754	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15818	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Watch the gallery and in front of the TV sets! This debate is, I believe, very essential and, in my view, is being led from a completely wrong perspective. I can, of course, justify this. If we are talking exclusively about agricultural application, I ask all the Members here: Why don't we talk about the application to the highways, the highways, the ASFINAG? Why don't we talk about the application of the freeing of the tracks of weeds at the WESTbahn and at ÖBB? Why don't we talk about the federal gardens, the parks? Why don't we talk about the house gardens? Ladies and gentlemen, why don't we talk about daily food? [[Call the Greens.]] Now you're going to ask yourself: Is glyphosate already being injected? - That's where it's fed! We are not discussing – and that is the sadness – that really is not. In his studies, Professor Don Huber of Purdue University in America demonstrated the harmful effects of glycosate on rats, demonstrated the harmful effects of glycosate and gave lectures in Austria. If he's being insulted by experts from mothers' organizations, he's supposed to drive home, then we know that some people really don't take it seriously. We're still talking about animal feed here. We feed our consumers daily with palm oil, i.e. glycosate. That is why I have taken this table with me, which confirms that glyphosate production has doubled over the last ten years, to the same extent as this senseless, mad reddening of the rainforest. It is interesting that this was not discussed at the climate summit in Paris. I don't know what was even more important. [[Abg. Obernoster: Were you not there?]] Is this climate change passing? Does this drought pass, this dryness? We are discussing a surplus, and 50 million citizens in this world must suffer hunger; a million people have problems with overweight and a million people suffer from hunger. We have to put the discussion in the right light, and this includes the number of glyphosate. 400 tonnes are exported in Austria, 720 000 tonnes are produced worldwide – 720 000 tonnes! I don't know who's waiting for a position at Monsanto because these companies are still being supported here. Yes, these are the evils of this whole problem, which is indeed the basis of our agriculture, our healthy production. These are the competitors who kill and make a regional circular economy dependent. Ladies and gentlemen, we should triumph with a circular economy, with sustainable agricultural production, with a regional production with which we are very different from international imports and thus impress our colleagues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Most importantly – I have mentioned it today – the low standards in the working conditions of workers are. [[The speaker turns the panel around, there is a picture of four people wearing plastic gloves and cushions, breath protection masks and hats.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Where is palm oil? Where's the margarine?]] – This is the high social standard in palm oil production. Yes, Gabi Obernosterer, you have it at home in your hotel, you are also one who employs such workers. This is the alternative if we want to be cheaper and cheaper and we deny where the product comes from. [[Abg. Obernosterer: What did you say?- Oh, my God!]] – We can drive home at any time, then we can see how much palm oil you have in your business. That's reality. We need to discuss what matters. We have to get away from these show themes, we have to get away from these show pictures, from this healing world that really does not exist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Mr Matznetter, why do we want to imagine something that does not exist? – It is an essential topic for you! [[Abg. Matznetter: Where is palm oil?]] Where the palm oil is? – 70 percent of all foods. You, as a consumer representative, should take this issue far more important. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – This is really the hardest to point out. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You must face up to your responsibilities, once you have the responsibility of lobbyists, industrial companies, the food industry and not do cheap business with them. This is the very decisive one, Mr Matznetter. We all have to try and all of us are 100% consumers, all of us have to go the straight way. I would like to mention one more thing that I am proud of: I think it was a colleague of the ÖVP who called me "Palmöl-Leo". An economic editor of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” has understood this topic, we have spent an hour together, and yesterday he made an excellent contribution with the title page “Schmürige Geschäfte”. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date]] It is ludicrous business at the expense of consumers, at the expense of regional agriculture, at the expense of the environment and climate, at the cost of health. That's terrible! I would like to reject something, Mr Loacker: That's not a feeling discussion. If you have lost two close family members to cancer, you know that health is the highest good, and if such a spraying agent causes cancer or only comes to the near range to cause cancer, then it is to be banned!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15935	Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e15950	I am already at the end of my remarks; I just want to finish the sentence. Glyphosate should not be allowed again for 15 years, but rather to prolonge like an insurance contract: It shall be prohibited until further notice, as long as there is no substitute, but as soon as there are reasonable replacement solutions. That would be a common path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16011	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:47:30]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16032	I now take the negotiations on the 1. Agenda item again. Mr Ehmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16059	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! We return to Agenda item 1 again, to the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020. It has already been very much illuminated in detail, also critically noted, but I think that in total one can say that after many years of consolidation, the method of consolidation, there is again room for investment. This becomes apparent when we look at the area of teachers, security personnel, police officers, the federal army and so on. The overall budget will be maintained, the European Union's requirements will be respected, and yet it will involve a huge amount, with a huge volume of over €5 billion, the tax reform. A special thanks goes to Finance Minister Schelling and also to the head of state, Kaiser, for the agreement of principle that has now been reached in advance in order to get rid of this inconvenient model of state liability – the business model of the former hypo – and finally to draw a final line below. However, I would also like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to announce my farewell. I'll be 16. June 2016 return to the city Senate of my home city of Graz and place me the challenging task there. I am already looking forward to this task, but it was a very exciting time here in the House with all of you, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the members and staff of all the clubs, but, of course, my group club, the SPÖ club, for the great support in the committees, in the plenary and also for other appointments that require assistance and support. Parliament's Directorate was also particularly grateful for the support given to organisational work: At this point I can express my special thanks to all the employees of the house as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is not natural to take on political responsibility in times like this. I refer to everyone and everyone who takes on political responsibility in today's times, be it at the federal, national or municipal level; this is really noted here. I believe that this is not easy to do, but I am glad that there are still many people who are committed to the general good in the interests of the population, and I am firmly convinced that no one – and that is now over-fragmentally said – means evil or no one wants evil. We all have different approaches to solutions and goals, but the overall goal, I think, is to get the best possible for the population. [[General condolences.]] Finally, of course, I would like to wish the new team under Chancellor Christian Kern everything good for the further course, for the strenuous challenges that are still there. I believe that everything, ladies and gentlemen, will be mastered here, and that will be a good way for the Republic. In this sense, I can say goodbye to this point today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16105	Mr Ehmann, we wish you every good thing for the future. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16131	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this very comprehensive law – including the content of the span – everyone will naturally find his construction site, which he likes to talk about. I want to dedicate myself to one of the biggest construction sites we have: This is the labour market or unemployment. Half a million people are looking for work or are unemployed, and I would like to come to the essential point that is repeatedly being misinterpreted, namely who is creating jobs: These are still the companies and not the politics itself. We can only improve the conditions for companies to create these jobs, but instead of effectively combating unemployment, tax and tax pressure is high. Austria, according to the figures, is in second place the labour costs recently published by the OECD. When it comes to creating jobs, you will hear from entrepreneurs, no matter what size, the same statement: You would like to employ more people, but it fails that work is just expensive. Employees cost a lot, but earn too little, so the spray between net and gross is too high. It is not about paying anyone a little less, it is about reducing this delta, so to speak. In this delta, the additional wage costs that we want to reduce massively do not fall to a small or medium extent, as is now being considered, but to a very large extent. We really want to reduce the additional wage costs. We are thinking of a figure of €5.5 billion, and this would create a margin for about 78 000 new jobs if we were to give faith to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, where calculations are also being made in this direction. How do we want to deal with this matter? – I will explain this with a motion for a resolution, which I shall therefore also make: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Call the SPÖ:Superproposal!]] – Thank you, thank you, I am glad that here comes praise from the unusual, unexpected side. I'm sure you'll say something more later. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is not serious anyway!]] In the last plenary session, the government itself presented some plans for job creation, which were mainly related to infrastructure measures. There was talk about the extension of road, rail and the port network. That may be good, it may be nice, it costs money. Klubobmann Arbitrators have predicted that an investment of € 1 billion will create around 15 000 jobs. Nor can this account be doubted, but these jobs are not sustainable. This is one-time investment, which is not a permanent employment relationship. Do you have an idea of what you could do in the field of young companies, start-ups with 1 billion €? – The fact that Austria does not have the best conditions here proves or shows a study published today, it has just been sent out via the APA. I read from the daily “The Press”: “Start-ups in Vienna cannot keep up with Europe”. Unfortunately, I miss the time to explain why this is not the case, but it is also due to the political conditions that prevail here for start-ups. What can be done to extend the scope for companies to have the air for employment? – You can simply leave them more money, you can move a little away from the social-democratic policy of participating in the profits of companies without taking a risk and then re-playing a fraction of these revenues into the system. Our approach, therefore, is to give companies more money by halving corporate tax on profits not collected to 12.5 percent. As in the past, the tax rate of 25 percent will continue to be taxed. With this money, companies can better plan and take better account of investment and employment in their planning. Is that about taxes? – No, of course not in the medium term, it is a period shift or a shift to other types of tax revenue. This strengthens liquidity, equity and, as already mentioned, the company's planning security, it leads to more competitiveness in Austria and more investment, which, of course, also leads to more employment. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If we want to permanently increase employment, we need to give more air to companies to create this employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16233	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16387	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16408	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Alm, we note that, although NEOS is so called, they return deeply to the past, to the so-called split corporate tax rate – when I was tax advisors, at the beginning of the 1980s, there was still that – out of a moth box of tax law. Whether this is so meaningful, we need to discuss first, but I like to be willing to talk about all things. One thing in principle: We must try to master tax erosion in this area. Did one of you notice that when you hit the newspaper, you read permanently from Panama-Leaks, Lux-Leaks, and as they all are called, and that these companies don't pay any more taxes? [[Abg. Rossmann: You did not agree to our request!]] And then the answer is: Then we'll lower the tax rates with us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Alm.]] Mr Alm, perhaps you can write in at least: for the first 100 000 or 200 000; then something would have already been won – but no, for everyone! It is not a coincidence who financed the NEOS election campaign, is it, Mr Strolz? [[Abg. Schellhorn: I've been waiting for that!]] [[Abg. Scherak: Which person committee were you in?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] I come to the parts that are more important to us: Children learn when they attack a pot that is hot that they don't do it another time. If they do it a second time, because they don't learn that fast, they don't do it a third time, but take a pan when the pot is hot. We manage to explain to some members of the opposition every year why the budgets do not hold. When do you feel your fingers? - That's stupid! In this country with this government there is one budget after another. Your forecast, we do not achieve a structural zero deficit in 2017, we have been hearing since 2014. - But please! [[Abg. Rossmann: But this day you could burn your fingers!]] Please! Is that enough for the past few years? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] I think the officials in the budget section are worth a thank you, thanks also for the execution in all the ministries. Let's think of something else. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] Maybe we won a lot then. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On this occasion I would like to say: This financial framework reduces the debt of Austria. In the previous year we were still at 86.2 percent of GDP, this year we will have 84.3 percent, and until 2020 we will reduce this figure to 76.6 percent. Sure, we've got the HETA decommissioning. Thank you, by the way, for the agreement, Minister of State. Only one thing is clear: Payments are going on for decades. And when I see a few empty rows at the FPÖ, I have to say: I already understand that you are withdrawing from this discussion; only every time to emphasize how stupid someone was to state – you are concerned with the question of how it was possible that the country of Carinthia sold the bank to Bavaria, but held the liability! Each housekeeper knows that if he sells his house and still has a liability, he needs a damage and a statement from the new owner, unless the new owner assumes the liability. This has been done by Jörg Haider – and I do not think it was a coincidence that he could no longer be held responsible, I also say, after a bottle of Tequila in the town’s ceramics and then very fast driving – only that much was written to him in the main book. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Angerer and Lausch]] And there you sit and point with your finger at those who tirelessly take the chestnuts out of the fire! [[Abg. Listen: You don't...!]] We will conclude the subject, but I think: You should stand by it. So much propensity would be very good for the blue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16552	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16573	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Matznetter, I am convinced that children do not learn exclusively or at all by letting them go on hot stovetops, at all, but it is about finding clear arguments about why they should not do so. This makes the bridge to the Federal Financial Framework Act exciting: This, of course, sets the limits, Mr Minister, no question, but it also sets political priorities. This was discussed enough here. Let us look at the main lines, the big questions that we really need to deal with. International policy and development cooperation are those areas that are closer to us than ever before. The effects of war conflicts, the effects of this imagination of boundless growth on this world, especially from the industrialized states, the effects of exploitation of man and the environment, we feel every day, not only in our politics, but also in our everyday lives. We will not soon be mastering the speed of globalisation. We are quite clear about this, and it should also be a focus of this federal financial framework to be able to counter it, whether it be at Austrian level, at European level, or above all at international level. I would like to give an example, Ethiopia. There's great drought there. Apparently there has been no rain there for two years. The fight for water, for farm animals, because of the fact that there is simply a survival existence, is to be led by people on the spot every day. But not only in Ethiopia, it is all about East Africa, but also about southern Africa. It is also our responsibility to give these people a basis of life, so that they can actually live where they grew up, where they have their roots, where their home is. For this Europe, but also primarily Austria, is co-responsible. The development cooperation budget will be increased, mainly for bilateral development cooperation. That sounds very good at first sight. However, if you look closely at it, you have to note a lot of critical things: In 2008, there was still €100 million for development cooperation. This amount has finally dropped to €77 million, and is now to be distributed €154 million for direct development cooperation by 2021. That's 15.5 million € per year in addition. The ADA, the agency responsible for the implementation of the projects within the meaning of bilateral cooperation, especially with the global south, with countries, but also with NGOs and project partners on the ground, was designed for a sum of €200 million. Otherwise, it would not pay off to outsource a society and say: You are now doing the projects away from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are far from €200 million a year, and we have been waiting for it for over ten years. That's the first point. The second point concerns compliance with the international agreement is to issue 0.7% of gross national income for all development cooperation and humanitarian aid. This would help the entire global south immensely. This might not only reduce the causes of escape, but also actually create the basis for living for people in the global south. That is, a stronger increase is appropriate, that is, far more than €15 million a year, in order to actually help people on the ground. It is our obligation to intervene here, especially in view of the fast-moving of globalisation and the exploitation of man and nature.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16629	Mrs Maurer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16650	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors on the gallery and in front of the screens! We are back in the budget debate, and I would like to read a short paragraph: " Positioning in international comparisons is enhanced by strengthening the tertiary sector and research, i.e. through improved budgetary frameworks. Specific budgetary measures to meet the target of 2% of GDP for tertiary educational institutions by 2020’. This is a quote from the government program between SPÖ and ÖVP, as it was closed in 2013. Now we have the federal financial framework, which for the first time has shown black on white that this objective has never been pursued seriously. Now we have the number for 2020 for the first time, and it is quite far from reaching the 2% of GDP that has been decided on many occasions in the government programme. That's just impossible. The increases in this field include only the clinical and medical additional burden that does not directly benefit universities. The only multi-investment that can be found is €15 million for a research institute, for a friend of the Minister, Mr Penninger. Otherwise, the universities in this federal financial framework are going to be empty. I would already like to express my astonishment. You defended this financial framework and pointed out the increases. Not only did this call Mrs Hammerschmid – the former uniko president – now she is a member of the government – but the Research and Technology Development Council also says that we need €1.5 billion in this area to get to the level. The WIFO also says that we need an increase of 70 percent to reach 2 percent of GDP in 2020. I don't just want to be negative now. In an interview in the “ZiB 2” yesterday, the new Chancellor’s core brought the much quoted, almost inflationary, example of a smartphone, whose development was possible only because of publicly funded basic research. Since the EIA has clearly shown no serious commitment in this area in recent years, I hope that perhaps the new chancellor will be more involved in this field and that the funds in the field of science and research, universities and colleges may be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16701	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1096 of the Supplements. Mr Tamandel, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional request. I am therefore going to vote on the supplementary proposal and, finally, on the draft law. Mr Tamandl, Mr Krainer, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 50 to 54 and the addition to Article 4. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schellhorn, colleagues in relation to Mr One – two out. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Lichtenecker, colleagues on the financing gap in the BFRG 2017–2020 on the implementation of the FTI strategy. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on the demarcation of the need-oriented minimum guarantee of unemployment insurance benefits for longer periods of reference. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Alm, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to additional labour costs. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on another motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Alm, colleagues and colleagues on corporate tax. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – That is the minority and therefore rejected. [[16:12:31]] 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1108, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which an authorisation is granted via federal assets (1121 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16852	Now we reach the 2nd place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Dr. Pilz reported in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16879	Madam President. Federal Minister! It is often the seemingly small stories that say a lot about politics. If we look at the paper that is under discussion, it is about an empowerment law available on federal assets – and in this context by 15 pieces of night vision telescopic glasses worth €27 300, which have been purchased in the 1990s, have been completely written down and have just a value of €1 820 – after the assessment of the department, they would be sold. They are supposed to go to the Republic of Macedonia, and there the police are to use it at the border, because the police there want to see refugees not only by day but also by night. I assume, Minister of Finance, that you do not know the history. The Minister of the Interior knows it, the Director-General for Public Security knows it, the ÖVP should know this well: ==References== In March, police officers from Macedonia, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary and Austria met in Belgrade. It is a good and significant society. There was a conscious refusal to invite the German Minister of the Interior, to invite Western European Ministers of the Interior, to invite the Italian Minister of the Interior. No, that was the Visegrád Society plus Austria, plus Macedonia. Now Austria is politically, in principle, different from Macedonia. Austria is a democratic rule of law, I do not want to lose many words about Macedonia. But what is proposed there and what is agreed? – It is agreed that: The States participating in this conference provide equipment for crowd control. I have published this document and made it available to the Ministry of the Interior. This is not just about night vision devices, so that the refugees, the women and the children can all be recognized and found at night. It's about Taser, it's about pepper sprays, it's about nerve gas, it's about batons, it's about handcuffs, it's about acoustic bombs that you throw into human collections, so it comes to hearing falls. This is not about border closure, it is about combating refugees – that is one point. As long as they do not open legal ways for the most oppressed and in need of refugees, according to Canadian example, to Austria, they do not have the moral right to fight refugees, families, children in this way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the second is: Who's the Macedonian police? – This is the police of an authoritarian, certain Mafiaclan State committed. Warn not only in Macedonia The European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council, are in favour of the Commission's proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative Police can be used not only against refugees but also against their own population. Mr. Finanzminister, this should give you and your members of your government a thought. Then there is a third and final point: You know, I am not quite sure if Austria invests the money in fences, in night vision devices, in anti-refuge drugs, and not even a fraction of them in survival-necessary goods and facilities that make it possible for refugees not to try to escape to Europe. If you had invested only part of this money in the World Food Programme, if you were to say today, food aid instead of refugee control, that would be an approach. I think it is politically, humanly and for reason, Mr. Finanzminister, not responsible for supporting a false security policy of the Ministry of the Interior with the Visegrád allies in this way. I'm sorry, that's the wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16946	The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e16968	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleague Pilz, of course, is a little messing things up again. The fact is – and I agree with him – that today we authorize the Minister of Finance to make 15 used night vision glasses written down, but estimated at €27,300, to be awarded to the Republic of Macedonia. In fact, we need to discuss whether we do not bring about a change in the way that we do not have to be law-based about such things. Perhaps there is a possibility of administrative simplification. But when we talk about these night vision glasses, we certainly also talk about indirectly increasing the security of our population. Mr Pilz referred to another matter. The fact is that at the conference of the 24th. In February 2016, the EU and the Western Balkans adopted measures to manage the migration movement. Against this background, Macedonia has decided to reintroduce the border controls to the fullest extent and has found that the forces are poorly equipped. That is why they have also turned to other EU countries to ask for help – and Austria will help. When we talk about security, I must make it clear once again that Austria has done a lot for refugees, much more than other countries in Europe and in this world. For example, if France had done just as much, there would be 700 000 refugees, in Italy 650 000, in Great Britain 670 000. If I expanded the comparison to the USA and Canada, there would be 3.8 million refugees. The fact is that fewer refugees have been accommodated in these two countries than in Austria. I think that Austria has taken on a great deal of responsibility, and I can thank those responsible. Foreign Minister Kurz has made a significant contribution to this, including Mrs Innenminister Mikl-Leiter, and now also her successor Sobotka, but also Defence Minister Doskozil has worked very well there. I can therefore also thank the Minister for Defence. Yes, He will get more money in the future, but he will use this money, which I am convinced will make sense. I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for having made a clear commitment to a comprehensive national defense. Its predecessor was unable to make the concession to preserve the barracks in rural areas. I have been massively committed to the preservation of the Tamsweg barracks. There is a clear commitment from the current Minister of Defence, thank you also for it – also to the Minister of Finance that he makes the money available for it. Security is important, security costs money, but security is a great asset, and for that, we must commit ourselves to it and fight for it – in Austria, in the European Union and beyond.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17022	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17043	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This apparently small issue of the delivery of night vision devices to Macedonia shows how difficult this issue is and what major effects it has. Therefore, the common objective of all EU countries can only be to find a solution in the sense of people fleeing from a solution in those countries where the causes of the escape movements lie. Finally, it must also be noted that it is important for states to be supported. Of course, I cannot quite wrong my colleague Pilz in one matter or another, there is enough budget resources that could otherwise be used, but it is now decided in this form and, in my opinion, goes well. At the end of the day, however, a large Community, European solution is needed. This, however, does not prevent anyone – and this must also be mentioned – from stepping up measures in this area, particularly as regards border security, as regards the fight against towing, which is necessary. This has happened in Austria, also with the upgrading of the towing unit in the Federal Criminal Office and the strengthening of Frontex, because this unit has a lot to do in the coming years and in the coming years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join the words of my colleague Michael Ehmann, for me too, the time ends here in the House – after almost eight years of activity, with a short intermezzo that everyone knows; I then moved back in September. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] I am now going to leave this House again, with a very good feeling, because I know that, even though many discussions are being held very controversially, we MEPs are ultimately obliged to the Austrian people, the Austrian citizens. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] That is why I would like to thank everyone for many, many good discussions. I will be working again in my area of origin in the fight against crime in our country in the future. There have been many good tips in recent months, even here in the House, which has made sense, some things have less meaning, but you can take something with you. I was able to learn a lot in this area too. Thank you very much, Madam President, also to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate for the excellent support. I wish my honourable colleagues, the House - because we are very far-reaching in night vision equipment - especially during the day. see the decisions and responsibilities they bear. I wish you all the best, good luck and good luck! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17104	Mr Fazekas, you too are good for the future! The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17128	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! This draft law deals with the provision of night vision glasses for Macedonia, which, in order to continue to maintain its border control, has sought help from Austria and other countries. With the provision of these night vision devices, this desire is now fulfilled. In addition to the material aspect of aid, the gesture is important that we support a state that takes border security seriously. We will therefore vote in favour of this law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The need for this support, however, once again points out that the EU has once again completely failed on this issue. Where rapid and unbureaucratic assistance would have been necessary, the EU has come up with declarations of intent, and the much-contested European solidarity has really come to be a hollow phrase here. The need for this law, ladies and gentlemen, is proof that the EU has really failed in its present form in this crisis, the migration crisis. At the same time, however, it is particularly important for us that this measure in no way restricts the willingness of the Federal Force to use it and that it is provided for our own federal army replacement equipment. Especially in times like this, the Federal Force's willingness to provide security must be strengthened and must not be weakened. We will therefore be very careful to ensure that the federal army is finally provided with the resources it really needs to carry out its tasks.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17167	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1108 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. This means that we will be able to get to the third reading at once. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their approval at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:28:17]] 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1106, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Civil Fund Act 1996 and the Hail Insurance Funding Act (1140 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17222	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17249	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Yes, the Austrian Federal Government's work programme for the years 2013 to 2018 also provides for the extension of existing insurance systems to a comprehensive harvest insurance scheme, taking into account the necessary adjustment of the disaster fund grants. – That is out of question. It is therefore intended to extend the already existing promotion of insurance premiums for damage to agricultural crops – wine cultures and insurable crops – due to hail and frost to other harmful events. So slowly we approach full cash insurance in this area. This will, of course, also help to increase the willingness to insure possible damage to agricultural crops, in particular the increasing risk of drought in recent years. In fact, we cannot deal with this regulation because it includes the problem as we call it: Is it an insurance now? – If we are quite honest, ladies and gentlemen: If it is the political will to really cover the damage of agriculture – and this is probably important – then you can speak of subsidies or premiums immediately, then we do not need to talk about an insurance scheme here. I think it would be in the sense of the matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] – It is not only weak, it is an honest presentation, Mr Pirklhuber, that we do not say insurance. Let's just say it's a premium, so here... – An insurance grant, yes, with 50 : 25 : 25. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Insurance grant!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] But in the final effect, that's not insurance, and that's the jumping point. Let us say what our farmers are worth, let us say, and let us present transparently what we are setting aside or leading to harvest losses. And then it's not insurance, it's a promotion.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17303	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17324	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With today's change of law, we decide on another measure agreed in the government programme to strengthen Austrian agriculture. I regret that Mr Schellhorn meant that he could not agree to this, especially at a time when there are many difficulties for agriculture in which dramatic results have been brought to our attention due to climate change. Since the beginning of this legislative period, we have had intensive discussions to achieve this change of law. That is why I would like to thank the Federal Minister for Finance Schelling, Mr Vice-Chanzler Mitterlehner, the Minister for Agriculture Rupprechter, but also Mr Preiner and Mr Krainer for their support, for the discussion that was sometimes challenging – that was undisputed – but ultimately led to a positive outcome. On this occasion I would like to remember the former Federal Minister of Dog Torfer, with whom I was finally able to fix this issue during the coalition negotiations, the extended insurance protection. I would therefore also like to thank him. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is the consequences of climate change, which is known. For years, the global average temperature has been increasing, rising. The consequences for agriculture include high heat pollution for plants, especially in combination with drought, increase in rainfall intensity in thunderstorms and thus correspondingly massive erosions, shift of precipitation from the vegetation period to winter, resulting in summer dryness and heat pollution, greatly reduced groundwater content, especially in the second half of the summer. It is therefore important to be able to offer farmers an insurance scheme in order to remedy possible damage, an insurance they can also afford. Therefore, thanks to the federal government and to the federal states that it is possible to extend this insurance accordingly. There are also some other important points here. It is a pity that, due to water law regulations in a federal state, it is difficult to provide water storage – this could give a clear aid on frost days. What is natural for tourism in the winter sports resorts, namely to build water reservoirs, should also be possible for our fruit cultures, namely, to collect water on rainy days in order to be able to use it later. Finally, this water would only be borrowed and then go back to the land budget. I do not understand that there are difficulties in this regard. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear that self-insurance is important that, in the event of damage, it is necessary to separate clearly: Insurance is responsible for insurable damage, and only in case of such damage is additional assistance necessary – as in those days, for example, in the Styria, where a super-gau took place. The effects are so dramatic that for many farmers it is about existence. In the event of such damage, it is necessary to provide additional assistance to ladies and gentlemen. Such a measure of damage, as it has become apparent there, requires solidarity and rapid policy action. I therefore propose the following amendment to the Civil Fund Act to ensure that farmers can be helped quickly: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for agreeing here, and I do not wish to miss out on giving particular thanks to the relevant agricultural policy representation and the standing representation, but above all to the expert experts at the President's Conference, at the head of Mr Schultes. The survey will be difficult enough. It is not important, however, what is difficult, what was important and how we give hope to farmers. With this law and the amendment as well as the safeguarding of the additional funds from the disaster fund, these rural family farms, I believe, can again believe in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17437	The amendment has been tabled in detail and properly, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17461	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schellhorn said that this is not an insurance but a promotion. The opposite is, of course, true. It is a solidarity system, as insurance always holds to be a solidarity system. That is, a group pays in a pot together, and if damage occurs, this pot will do away with the damage caused to the individual. A person who has no damage does not get any money, but can be pleased that he has not had any damage. These are the basic principles of solidarity systems. Of course, what also comes to wear is a kind of overflow system. In other words, under normal circumstances such solidarity systems should always carry themselves, but in the event of special events, such as when unemployment is particularly high, the general public is used for co-financing. This is also due to the extreme weather conditions of late April. This pot we've just created would have been too small. And then it is that the generality with individual parts of our society should also be solidarity. I think this system is in principle correct. The only thing here that may be a little different from other systems is that when you register, the generality already pays. These are the subsidies, as Mr Schellhorn calls it, that just a quarter of the insurance premium is paid from federal tax funds and a quarter from regional tax funds. But in this case, unless extreme events take place, the funds for disbursement should already be covered if a damage has occurred. Of course, such a thing can always be just a start. It is about the fact that if enough farmers make such an insurance – yes, but the farms are getting bigger – if as much as 100 percent are involved, they can always pay for the damage themselves. [[Abg. Fekter: They're getting less and less!]] In this start-up, it is also important to make this contribution through the disaster fund, so that such a solidarity system works. Of course, you have to be careful – and this has rightly been said by Mr Auer – that in an extreme case it is not the case that the person who has insured himself who has paid an insurance premium is much less likely to be received by the general public or to receive a maximum of the same amount as the one who has not insured, because that leads to everyone saying: If I get the same damage anyway, I won't pay the insurance premium. In this respect, it is likely that the directives will have to pay attention to the fact that this does not lead to a negative, I say, incentive effect. But as a social democracy, we are friends of solidarity systems, which is not quite unknown anyway, and in that respect we support it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17498	Next word reported: Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17519	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! It is as harmonious as it is, I believe, not to be in the Financial Committee as it is presented here today. I assume that there have been some differences, otherwise there would be no amendment by the two government parties. Mr Krainer has done very well, which is actually the task of insurance and also the task of a solidarity system, especially in the field of agriculture. I have to put on such a little wordplay now: In the case of SPÖ, the core competence is not in the field of agriculture and civil protection. Otherwise, we would have been able to implement this more easily and more efficiently in the last financial committee, precisely because there is a special situation in Styria, in Carinthia, but also in other federal states, where snow has created a disaster through snow, where there are farmers who are fighting for their existence. Jakob Auer, you will agree. Mr Federal Minister, if I am properly informed, you are also wine growers. They know how this will affect the coming years – so there are consequences not only in the harvest year, but also in the coming year. But it has not only extremely affected the wine growers, no, also the fruit farmers. If the head of state of Styria, Mr. Michael Schickhofer, rings through the countries and speaks of competences, that the regions, our regionality, agriculture and, and, must be promoted, and that even in his own home country, in East Styria, in Puch near Weiz, where he is at home, a region that lives by tourism, a region that lives from fruit growing, and then there is a scenario like this here in the financial committee, then I must say that the SPÖ is not worthy to organise such a spectacle in this regard. Now I come to the amendment. 50 million € are in the final effect a drop on the hot stone. That's all. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Co-financed by the countries!]] Absolutely, yes, co-financed by the countries, 50 million €. We shall also vote in favour of this request. It's still a drop on the hot stone. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because the €50 million that will be shot by the countries is, of course, also a support measure, but we are talking about total damage of over €200 million in a region that is not blessed with jobs or can currently live on the income generated in agriculture, for example in the fruit sector, where farmers receive their margins a year or more more than twelve months later, their salary. So it is really high time to help farmers quickly, unbureaucratically, and also to support them, because an important factor for us in the southeast Styria, Eastern Styria, in Styria in general, in the rural area is of course also tourism. We live on the fact that our region draws a picture that is otherwise not available in Austria in the form. Many of you visit our regions here in the house, are there at the Buschenschenken, are in the wine areas. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Own winegrowers!]] There are our own wine farmers from the ÖVP, also from the SPÖ side. It is really a command of the hour to help unbureaucratic and as quickly as possible. I would like to add one point on this, which is Russia's sanctions. This has hit us very hard, especially in the field of agriculture. The European Union is setting sanctions against Russia, and in the same breath the US has never exported to Russia as much as it is now. It is only this dual tenacity and this double tenacity. Mr Federal Minister, I am also saying this in your direction, but especially in the direction of the entire Federal Government, that these sanctions must be stopped as soon as possible. These do not bring anything to the economy, nor are there any approaches at bilateral level. Another important point for us: TTIP, which has been addressed today in the current hour of Europe, is a factor which we in principle reject from the house. There will be no TTIP with us. In particular, Austrian agriculture in the free market economy is also not competitive. We don't have these sizes. Today we have heard from Mr Hübner in the early days, and in the USA there are farmers, industries, who have an average of 1,000 hectares. We speak here in Austria of miners who have 20, 25 hectares, of farmers in other regions who have areas of perhaps 100, 150, 200 hectares. This is absolutely important for us, we are out of competition. And if we don't appear here self-confident, I assume that in the next few years we will have conditions that we don't want, because no one will be willing to take over these businesses anymore. We already have the problem. And we will no longer be able to use our region touristically as it is at present. Who will operate our landscape care? Who's gonna invest there? Who will finance this? And here's a clear signal from us: We now need unbureaucratic emergency aid in these regions to enable farmers to finance their current costs, whether this is social security, whether it be their loans, and, and so on. Because here it is really high time to provide support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17580	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17601	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! First of all, I would like to express my sympathy for all the farmers affected by storm events in recent weeks. It's bad when work, before which I have great respect, has been destroyed from today to tomorrow and you don't know when you can live from it at all. It is therefore perfectly clear that it needs support, support because it is necessary to be solidary with individual cases, but also because it is agriculture that provides a great service for the general public, for society. Yes, the support question is clear. But what else is to be done? Mr Auer has already mentioned this, climate change has arrived. Perhaps many are not so well aware of the drama. So we also had great damage in agriculture last summer. The damage throughout the summer due to drought, above all, amounted to 200 million €. This is the damage that has now occurred within a few days. Unfortunately, I have to say it: We will have to deal with such events further. And if we do not invest massively in climate change and do not get under control of climate change, that will become more and more. According to a study commissioned by the Climate and Energy Fund, the so-called COIN study, which has dealt with what damage we have to expect if we do not do anything about climate change, the cost will amount to €8 billion per year in 2050. And that's a very conservative estimate. So we have to make sure that we are faced with further damage. It is not just a question of supporting, because we will not be able to increase the amount of disaster every year. At some point, it will also be asked which areas are still insured if risk assessments take on an ever higher risk. That means, on the other hand, we also need funding for adaptation to climate change, but also for climate protection. Unfortunately, I have to say again that all our proposals on this issue have already been postponed. We must finally get into action here as regards climate protection at home, but also in supporting other countries in climate protection measures. I am referring here to the issue of international climate finance, Mr Finanzminister, because we will not only succeed in getting under control of climate change, but only in good cooperation with many other countries in the implementation of the Paris climate agreement. We have to get in here. Much is already happening in many countries. It would be nice if we used the re-start of the Federal Government to work together and implement the Paris climate agreement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One comment to the conclusion: I am convinced that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of Climate Change, Energy and the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17659	The next item is the report by Mr Schultes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17680	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== April there was a frost night that was terrible. Several nights before, it has also been frozen, snow has fallen, and the efforts of farmers to protect their plants by first straining the hail protection nets, hoping that maybe one, two degrees of temperature increase, have become a real disaster with the coming snow. Many people have helped to re-create the collapsing hail protection networks, so that the snow may be able to pass through and not overload the plants. At many hundred hectares it was no longer possible. Many people have helped: Fire brigades, private persons, citizens, friends, neighbors have come, also in Lower Austria. I was in some of these areas and I saw what was happening there. I talked to the people after the nights of disaster. And there I felt on one side a very large resignation: Why again?, on the other hand, but also the gratitude that people have come and helped at night to light straw balls, distribute wax candles and put many other measures to resist nature as the farmer does. Many people have helped, and I want to thank these people today. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Fuchs.]] With all of you, I would like to thank you for wanting to amend the Hail Insurance Promotion Act, the Civil Fund Act, so that we can make this self-protection measure manageable in risk prevention, so that a producing agriculture can secure its livelihood, because there is nothing worse than when a harvest is gone, the production was financed but nothing comes in. This destroys the income of many years. That is why, in some areas where there has been this support from the budget for a long time, there is also a good through insurance, such as wine-growing, at least in the regions where there are frosts on a regular basis. These insurances are new in the field of fruit making. Later we offer this, I hope it is not too late, because if we decide today on these €50 million, where the federal states then make money, then at least an emergency aid will be possible for those who have not yet had the insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, what They decide here today is important and right, because, just after the disaster, there is a reaction from Parliament, where people feel that we are not only talking about, not just politically acting, not just attacking each other, but when it comes to quickly resolving solutions. And this is the most important thing: the message, yes, you will be helped quickly, don't put the hat on it, leave the motor saw at home, the fruit plant may be saved and thus the whole region. These are many people who work as a supplier for the farmers there, many people who find work and income in the plants themselves, many who work in the fruit packaging plants, in the warehouses and ultimately in the whole logistics. These are value-added centres in the fruit-growing regions. There's so much to it. And it is important that they get the signal quickly, yes, you will be helped, continues, Austria believes in you. It's not about telling people: Believe in Austria!, but it is about people experiencing and learning that Austria believes in it, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This is a good sign today, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17734	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17756	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Fathers. I would like to join in immediately and believe that this is a very important law that we are adopting today, because it has so far been so that we have not been able to insure ourselves for certain damage. The one who has the damage can't do anything for it, he hasn't even been able to insure it. I would just like to take a brief look at the comments made by my colleague, Mr Rauch. You mentioned the number of €200 million – this is now the estimated total damage, but there are all the frost damage in it and also the snow pressure. In the Civil Protection Act, snow pressure was already a measure in which one can support. But – and this is exactly the point – the frost damage is something that was nowhere inside, and therefore it is important that we also decide today on this additional request, these €50 million, and here we also clearly signal that there has to be some self-responsibility. That is, 25 percent pays the country, 25 percent pays the federal government, and 50 percent has to pay the entrepreneur, and I say the farmer is an entrepreneur himself. We will evaluate 2018 and then see if the fruit has borne, whether there really is a higher through-insurance rate. But you have to say one thing: What is then insured can no longer be supported by the disaster fund. Not that people then believe, now we pay something for the insurance, and then we get something again. No, there is a clear regulation. The aim must be to ensure that farmers insure their cultures accordingly and to provide the possibility that if they have a damage, it is clear that they will also be able to reach the rounds in the coming years that they have an income. But the disaster fund can also be calculated, which will cost him about the insurance premium next year. I think this is a good law. For the €50 million you can only say thank you and hope that these people will continue their way and ensure that we will have healthy fruit in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17793	Next speaker: Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17814	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed a positive signal, as I give to my colleague, Schultes, and it is an important signal to farmers and also a sign that we can act quickly. In fact, I would just like to say that, at the initiative of our chairman in the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Auer, who has given us the opportunity to discuss this in detail, on the point of wine law which we have negotiated, we have created a joint resolution in the Committee on Agriculture. I would just like to remind you of what Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Preiner, Mr Auer, Mr Jannach and Mr Steinbichler have said, where we call on the Federal Government to "take rapid and efficient measures to ensure adequate compensation for agricultural and forestry holdings affected by natural disasters, especially wine and fruit farmers. In order to mitigate the situation, in particular for the compensation of frost damage, funds from the disaster fund shall be made available as part of a revision of the Civil Fund Act, unless the European Union funds are provided for it.’; So we responded quickly to the Committee on Agriculture. It was certainly a support for the Financial Committee to take a clear position here and to find a common procedure. Of course, we will also agree with the amendment here, which is a correct decision. It would also be useful in one area or another, not only in such dramatic situations, that in this way we get through to joint resolutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17857	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17878	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Whether this is really climate change or not, we could probably discuss it in detail now. The fact is, however, that in recent years these weather capitals have come at ever shorter intervals and to an ever more intense extent. Whether it's frost, storms, floods – you all remember here. We have also always dealt in detail with the disasters in question, and I am very glad that, after some discussions, I say so, everyone has come to realize that the most important aid is now for farmers in this area. In January of this year I was in Weiz, in Gersdorf, in Gschmaier and there I held discussions with young farmers who looked with confidence into the future, who live and operate there in small-scale structures, in the fruit-growing, in the wine-growing, who have invested but who also told me at the time, this market situation is a very critical, an existence-threatening – and then two months later these frost damage, these snow damage. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Mr Krainer, I have photos with you from this affected area – not to provoke, but to simply raise awareness of what it means when people stand and 90 percent of the harvest and income have been destroyed. That is why it is important now, not just today, to help. Minister of Finance Schelling, I am really very grateful to you! Today we also had a very detailed discussion with a delegation from this area, with interested parties, with Styrian winegrowers and with Styrian fruit farmers, led by Andreas Kinsky and Gerhard Wohlmuth, with the Minister of Finance on this rapid aid, on this decision of the Civil Fund Act today. However, we also need another package of assistance, because this damage in wine-growing and fruit-growing has not only been done this year. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a loss of income over several years, and now it is about securing these existences, if we want to, for the future. I ask them not to fall into an ideological, party-political small war! It is about families, it is about jobs, it is about a safe diet in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17926	Next, Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17948	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Those people whose existence depends on unpredictable factors such as, as we have seen, the weather, must be helped quickly and unbureaucratically to a certain extent. This has been done by the Federal Government in the past and it will do so in the future even if this frost has destroyed the fruit plantations to 90, to 100 percent or whatever. On this point, I should also like to mention the point of the amendment, which reads as follows: There are funds “to meet extraordinary needs... at the level of up to 50 million euros" from the federal government, and there are 50 million from the country, that is, 100 million euros in total, and I would no longer speak of just one drop on the hot stone. This is a high amount of aid which, in exceptional situations, makes it possible to provide rapid assistance. This amendment to the Civil Fund Act is not just an emergency aid. We therefore decide to make a decisive difference in the prevention of so-called unfavourable weather conditions for farmers. This event includes droughts, storms as well as strong and persistent rainfall – hail and storm were already insurable. It is therefore in the future to complete a comprehensive harvest insurance as foreseen in the government programme. From the realization that the weather extremes are probably not less, but more and more – we can already find that they are breaking in over us more and more quickly – the farmers are stopped to assure themselves comprehensively and precisely with this support. The aim of this measure is that no subsequent payment will be made from the disaster fund, but the aided insurance will be claimed by farmers. Of course, in parallel with this, intensive work needs to be done on the causes of the extreme weather, so it is not just the symptoms that should be combated. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e17985	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18006	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today we have a lot of knowledge in agriculture, a lot of technology, a lot of know-how. But all of this will be of no use if nature does not play along. Still, domestic agriculture is extremely dependent on nature, and that was also a few weeks ago when the frost destroyed quite a lot. Put yourself in the position of farmers, farmers who have done everything in their fruit plant, in their vineyard and are proud of the culture, and suddenly on a frost night everything will be destroyed! The flowering green suddenly becomes one of which brown and one may be the case in Styria, Burgenland, Lower Austria and in other parts of Austria. suddenly before the issue of existence, because everything, 100 percent, was destroyed, as we have in some cases. Families wonder how they make their payments for social security, their taxes, their municipal charges, how they can receive their family. I'm not trying to push on the tear gland here, but please talk to these families who have real livelihoods! That is why it is right – thanking the political groups, I also thank Federal Minister Schelling for making money available here for emergency measures – that this is done together. What we have started in the past was the creation of an insurance system to give farmers the chance to be insured. And to ensure that the insurance premiums are manageable, they are granted by the federal government and by the country. This gives an incentive. This works with hail insurance, with all other dangers, and we are expanding the offer now by drought, by heavy rainfall, just by additional weather extreme events. This is a system that we consistently build over the years and which also makes sense because, if you want to, it is a public-private partnership, a model that is also valid throughout Europe. However, it is important that not only the federal government makes its contributions, but also the federal states do so. The federal states of Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Styria have already done so, unfortunately the Federal Land of Burgenland has not yet done so. It is important that both the federal government and the countries make their contribution, because if a federal state does not, then there is no federal money in the federal state, and I do not see that Burgenland farmers are badly made to be Upper Austrian, Styrian and Lower Austrian. I therefore call from here on the State Government of Burgenland to also make these contributions so that farmers can have a level playing field and in this sense make a real disaster prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18052	Mr Steinbichler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18089	Mr. Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watch the gallery and in front of the TV sets! Of course, this panel was already seen, and it was asked which book or video the photo came from. It comes from Kurt Langbein’s “Land Robbery”. I think that this whole discussion shows that, although the problem is recognized, our actions are not changed, and I believe that in that case it is quite essential. And, of course, we fully support any disaster protection that exists against these climate and weather changes. I am not only a farmer's representative, but as an insurer – I particularly remember the 4th. July 2000 – in front of destroyed communities: Desselbrunn, sea whales, this whole country. And then when you see what power nature has, when you know how powerless man and the fruit and the wild animals are, when the dead pheasants, the deer kittens, the hares lie down, are slain by the hail grains, then you begin to consider and wonder: What's going on? How powerful are we really? – I think some believe we are overpowered, we can control nature. What we are discussing here is precisely climate protection, that is precisely environmental protection, that is precisely health protection, these are the regional jobs we are losing. That's why I also showed this photo today: It is – once again – from Kurt Langbein’s “land robbery”; the video can watch everyone, just as the book “So Hunger is made” by Petra Ramsauer. Thank God there are writers who deal closely with this subject, but they are being smiled. These warnings will be extinguished by the wind, and hardly are these storm damage that cause massive economic damage, corrected and eliminated, the wounds have been forgotten, and we are already in the old pride. Why do I want to say that? – I took a pattern today because it is a typical domestic fruit, and the tree that bears this fruit, this orange tree, grows in advertising on the slopes in the smoke valley. [[Keeping a bottle in height]] Is it necessary that we eat 17 tons of bananas at the Marathon in Vienna – that's wonderful! –, and the Styrian farmers are fighting for survival?- Oh, my God! [[keeping a banana in height]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to all these appeals that have now been made, I should like to mention the statement made by Mr Hans Autumn, namely that these disasters, which have now been justified and are now paid, are not the solution to the problem. Mr Grillitsch has referred to these young, hopeful entrepreneurs who are willing to take this risk and also to run these businesses under these catastrophic climate conditions that we ourselves have created: They can no longer, even if they want, because here we are not talking about income, but here we are talking about holding businesses. We're just talking about farm maintenance here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gusenbauer hunter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this issue is too serious. Mrs Gusenbauer, this issue is too serious. I think we should look at this much more closely. This is about the future! This is about the future of our food sovereignty, and here it is very conscious of these regional economic cycles, which cannot determine us TTIP: these regional economic cycles, which we have in our hands, where we can draw the threads in which we can negotiate with partners with hand-beat quality and do not have to deal with paragraphs. I think that's essential. We must be clear about one thing: Those who believe in us here, we can insure these problems away, have not been concerned with insurance mathematics. These damages force huge increases in premiums to occur until the system is ultimately insecure because of the fact that the contracts are deficit. That must be perfectly clear to us. Thank you for helping politics quickly – who helps quickly helps twice – but this is just a drop on the hot stone. We must work hard in all areas! Minister Rupprechter was here today. Here, in this house, we have discussed: 100 million € Dry aid for farmers, dairy farmers, all get money! It's turned out to be €7 million. And now I can announce the result, the “success.” Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how much drought aid a dairy farmer gets? – 54 € Operating premium and per cow 3.5 €, so he gets good 100 € at average 20 cows. If he has a expensive forge, he can pay for an hour of repair. That's the fatality of it: What is sold great as help here is not even an emergency solution, and therefore we need cost-effective prices. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the Greens and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] We need cost-effective prices in all sectors so that our farmers can produce so that we can obtain production, otherwise we can no longer discuss how to produce, but only more about how to import. And there's also no chance to choose whether it's quality or industrial no-name goods. I think that's the very essential thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18189	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Schelling, has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18210	Mr President. High house! For future speeches by Mr Steinbichler: This speech contains product placements. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with ÖVP and NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] - Yes, that's a requirement. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I am pleased with the approval of this programme, which is very broad. It should be an incentive programme, and I should like to point out that this programme should, in particular, create an incentive to be assured so that in the future, damage compensation by the disaster fund is not done, but by insurance. As you have said, Mr Rauch, that this is too little, we must also point out how the procedure will proceed: First of all, of course, insurance benefits are included. Secondly, the harvest report is expected: What about yield or what is really there in damage?, and then we try to help. Why this amendment is so important is explained quickly, because there are regions where there is sure to be such a damage that there will be no harvest in this year, but possibly no harvest in the next three to four years. That is why this special fund is intended to help us to support farmers who are part of the economy as a whole. Let's just look at the Styria, how many transports will now be done by not producing apples, and how the shipments will suffer! So that's an overall picture, and that's why, I mean, it's important to do this. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course agreed that by October 2018 we will evaluate how much this incentive to insure has really brought and how much has not been insured. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] With this new insurance, it is also possible for the first time to use different insurances, including those which have not yet been insured. However, we must also tell farmers that it will not be very easy to deal with insurable damage through the disaster fund, but that insurance must be a priority. That must be our message and message, which is why this support is also in the sense of an incentive system for insurance premiums. And the last point: Of course, we still have the EU procedure to deal with the fact that this is not an unauthorised aid. I believe that the effect we have with these decisions today gives farmers of the regions concerned hope that they will support them. will be able to maintain their businesses and will be able to produce products from Austria in the future in a successful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18277	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 1106 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional request. I am therefore going to vote on the supplementary proposal and, finally, on the draft law. Mr Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new point 3 into Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately come to the third reading: I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:18:04]] 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1107, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Promotion of Crafts Benefits (1141 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18346	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18373	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! This administratively intensive law on craftsman bonus is a pure placebo law and costs more than it brings in the overall view. We will certainly not agree to this amendment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From the point of view of administrative simplification and the objective of efficient and slim administration, it must be noted that craftsman bonuses and red tape are a contradiction. The execution of the craftsman bonus was entrusted to the construction savings banks – as a so-called settlement agency – in the regulatory way. This resolution body shall examine the applications for support and complete the funding. The activities of the resolution centre will then be examined by an auditor appointed by the Minister of Finance. The resolution agency shall also be subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. Finally, the financial offices have to be informed of all the grants granted by the resolution agency, because the financial offices have to check whether the expenditure financed has been claimed as expenditure. The Minister of Finance therefore considers it necessary to deal with four different bodies in the control of this federal law. And what about administrative reform in the Strategy Report 2017–2020? – I quote: “The administrative reform is being driven forward, the bureaucracy is reduced where possible and useful and the modernisation of the federal administration continues consistently.” For the Minister of Finance, four different control bodies are debureaucratisation and administrative simplification! – There you can only say: Good night, administrative reform! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As early as the introduction of the craftsman bonus in 2014, FPÖ has said critically that the majority of the funding will be for craftsmanship, which would have been legally used without such promotion. Due to the considerable take-over effects and the high performance costs, the craftsman bonus did not achieve the desired objectives. The German Federal Court of Auditors has already concluded in the examination of a similar German scheme in February 2011 that the take-over effects, especially in the case of craftsmanship services, are significant. The budget service also saw the introduction of the craftsman bonus very critically in 2014 and until now has not revised its opinion. In the meantime, a review of the craftsman bonus by the Institute for Higher Studies, commissioned by the BMF, has also given a negative result. During the parliamentary budget negotiations in autumn 2015, the Minister of Finance has still stated that the craftsman bonus will not be extended. The craftsman bonus did not prove itself because of the takeover effects, said the Minister of Finance at the time. And half a year later, this Minister of Finance proposes the extension. Why the change of mind, Mr. Finanzminister? – It seems that, following the many anti-entrepreneurship measures by the tax reform and the register box, the Minister of Finance needs an economic nebula, so that he can re-appoint expensive tax money, which he has done for the economy, probably knowing that this measure does nothing for the economy at all. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: That is really incredible, this...!]] Mr Finanzminister, for the entrepreneurs – especially for small entrepreneurs and for tourism businesses – you have already lost all credibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18450	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18471	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear viewer! It is interesting how different the perception of the same law can be, how different my colleagues – both as national councils and as tax advisers – can see who are dealing with small and medium-sized enterprises. Let me start with this: The last tax reform, which we have jointly decided here, was implemented at €5.2 billion in such a way that the individual citizen had more income, and with this more income, consumption should be boosted. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Exactly! This is not the case, however, Mr President.]] There was the possibility of creating more economic growth, more tax revenue, and thus this was decided by a large majority – and many wanted it so, even the liberals wanted the money to be returned to the individual citizen. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Ask who feels that!]] [[Abg. Peter Worm: Ask for a question in Austria...!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Please only from the seat, Mr Colleague!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Go! There are the kindergarten fees higher...!]] Taxes have different functions, one of them is achieving revenue for the state, another is steering effects. The craftsman bonus is also a very small tax reform – very small because it does not affect everyone, and also because the budget is only small. However, it produces exactly the right steering effects. It is a temporary tax reform that will bring the consumer up to €600 under certain conditions, and it will provide support for your own home, for your home, for the rental apartment if improvements are made. The craftsman bonus, which is called the Federal Law on the Promotion of Crafts Benefits, therefore contains many different contributions: On the one hand, he contributes to the sustainable living, because everyone who needs it can now pick up 600 € to improve their own living space. The craftsman bonus also contributes to the creation and protection of property. This too is an important value that we would like to support, because beautiful and good living space creates quality of life and brings well-being to our citizens. It is also a contribution to the self-responsibility of our citizens, because we now have to consider what rehabilitation measures are being implemented, as the budget is limited. Therefore, not takeover effects, but preferential effects are expected. It is also a contribution to the support of staff-intensive craft businesses in Austria. These craft companies are micro- and micro-enterprises. All parties represented here say at each meeting: That's the heart of our economy. And when we decide to make a small contribution to this heart of our economy, most say: We don't need to take them! The craftsman bonus controls pretty precisely. He's producing exactly the steering charge we want. The promotion is the same for all citizens and is not calculated as a percentage, so that it brings more for a small earner than for a large person who is not likely to take advantage of it. The craftsman bonus creates an increase in consumption, because you only get this promotion if you really consume – not the businessman, but the consumer. It also does not work in accordance with the principle of foundry. Not everyone gets anything, but only those who need it and want it. Especially now that the order books are not yet full in the construction sector, the craftsman bonus is being introduced so that they fill up now. These full order books lead to a better mood and thus to a better investment rate for entrepreneurs. The most important thing is: The craftsman bonus is exactly this tax policy measure that small businesses really want. If you've heard in the early radio today, you've certainly noticed that the carpenters are already advertised: Please buy You with us now, then you can use the craftsman bonus! Farms want to be able to really pick up consumer support if they need it, and that is exactly the right means at the right time. I thank you for the budget release! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18578	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18599	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Groiß, I am not surprised now! When one calls gifts a tax reform, it is no wonder that nothing goes on in the Republic and no successful tax reform is being achieved. That's what you've done now. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Loacker.]] To the craftsman bonus: No question – we have already put this issue on the agenda the last time – that it is of course important to look more closely at whether there is not a casting pot principle and thus a take-off effect. The studies show many ways in which the Minister of Finance has carried out the financial committee, but they do not demonstrate any positive effects that would not have been the case in this form. And, of course, there are questions like: How do we use taxpayers? How responsible are we to deal with this? How efficiently do we use them? That is why it was of course a clear demand that the evaluation be put on the table, looked at and then debated. Now for 2016/2017 to decide again 20 million, we believe that the wrong signal, especially because there is not even an ecological focus. One could also have said that this means of improving, such as the renovation of house facades and so on, but not even that has happened. The Chamber of Commerce has written me a letter, which says – I quote from it –: "Because of the increase in the tax revenue, the craftsman bonus is almost self-financing." Yes, then I ask you why we don't even put 200 million € in there, if all this is financed by itself anyway! So, frankly, I already believe that it is necessary to take a close look at it. I say a clear yes to the reduction of undeclared work, of course a clear yes to the recovery of craft and small and medium-sized enterprises and a clear yes to the discharge of citizens – but we think this path is misguided. I'll tell you: If we want to revive the craftsmanship and support small and medium-sized enterprises, then we are making a real and comprehensive wage reduction! Let us make an ecological and social tax reform! The redundancy of the bureaucracy is long overdue. A one-stop shop is long overdue at the start-up, but also – and this is the special – for operating plant permits. Furthermore, it is necessary to open up the trade regulations and, of course, to improve the subject of improved financing for enterprises. In particular, start-ups As well as companies moving in very new sectors, they are struggling with financing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] – For example, there is a need for risk capital, Mrs Colleague! These are things that are really necessary; of course also the long overdue reform of tax law. We know that there are more than 500 exceptions to tax law. There is a need for simplification, because this would actually help entrepreneurs – and not an instrument such as the craftsman bonus, which has taken-away effects and de facto only acts like a casting can.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18670	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18691	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Dr. Lighteneckers, dear Ruperta, there are many regulations, and there are some among them that have also been intensively operated by many officials of your party. [[Abg. Lightenecker: They're here?]] – No, this goes so far that you want to prescribe hosts that they should not use terrace heating – just to give an example – while at the same time your clubwoman Eva Glavischnig was in the front line when it came to smoking in the local area and all smokers have to go out. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Example!]] [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] Since finding a middle way, it won't be that easy. We can once... [[Abg. Lichtenecker: The Minister for Health...!]] – My invitation, Mrs. Wirtschaftsprecher: We sit together, we go through the business order – gel, Peter? – and look at what rules there are in there. [[in the direction of the Abg. Cannon]] Let's talk about the mess, colleague Lichtenecker, and you'll see that you have more problems in several things than everyone else! [[Abg. Lightenecker: Yes, please!]] Back to the craftsman bonus: My craftsmanships in the chamber are happy, no question. [[Abg. Lightenecker: That's understandable!]] This is well-designed, even if you only make it temporarily. Why? – If you don't make that temporary, it says: I always do, and with that one does not achieve the effect of economic control. I admit that it is not the most intelligent measure in this area. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Fuchs.]] We have almost copied this regulation from the Federal Republic of Germany – and have now activated it again. But this cannot prevent us from thinking about what further measures we can take, for example, in the direction of thermal renovation, with the focus on the regulations in Paris. And what the implementation is about is: Let's talk about it! For example, I think a lot of the model is that low-income households can be credited, because many cannot even afford a new spa, and they could never work with the craftsman bonus because they can't finance it at all. [[Abg. Lightenecker: That's what we're talking about!]] For example, there was the action in Vienna about 30 years ago, when urban gas was converted to natural gas, that each household had received a loan, two years of refund-free, ten years refund without interest. With the cost estimate of the installer you went to his bank – and after two weeks the letter was there: Yes, you can! And then it was simply built; the invoice was paid directly by the bank, the city of Vienna was held liable – and the individual just came up for the repayment. By the way, there were hardly any failures at that time. And this is something I would like to look at in Austria, for example, for thermal renovation. That is because we would meet the worst – but not because they don't want to, but because they can't – households that still have unblemished walls, bad windows, bad doors, bad heating. In this sense, my invitation is to understand, to develop it further. Now, at least, the craftsman bonus is a good measure, we now need economic promotion – and I am glad that we have at least something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18818	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18839	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Mr Groiß has spoken of a positive contribution. . I would just like to say that is, as it were, just the classical economic concept of the ÖVP: take first and then distribute easily again. Consider, since the example has fallen with the installer, which costs an installer when he comes to you: They pay alone for the “Glory God!” over 70 €, but he sees only 23 € of it. This is just a huge problem, which shows that employees cost too much, but they deserve too little. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] In this respect, it is also somehow logical that, the higher taxes on work, there will be more money. That's why there's the craftsman bonus because you're trying to control it. – So that’s your “logic” I don’t quite understand. Therefore: Tell me how it can actually be that we do not manage to drastically reduce the additional wage costs and to cut down the trade order! It would be best to get into the business order so properly, but not with the lawn mower, but with the spruce moped. It's really wooded, that's it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is what is necessary in order to ensure something again. If we are already in the business order and it is about legal certainty: Dear colleagues from the ÖVP, we have also discussed the ban on smoking or the consequences of what will come in 2018. This also applies, as Mr Matznetter mentioned first, to the heating swams. Now I'm telling you a story: There is a company, a discotheque in Vienna, which has a commercial right. And then a neighbor complains because the guests are standing out and the arrants can't sleep. What will this be like in 2018? What legal certainty is there for commercial firms if we do not reduce this? There are quite different immission values for those who are exposed to flight noises than for those who live near a discotheque or somewhere else. It can't be! It is, I think, absolutely necessary that we think about it. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] And that's what I'm looking at now! This is very important for you now that you be careful – and we are careful to see who is standing up and who is sitting. This is also a general concern of the gastronomy companies from 2018 onwards, because everyone who will be outside from 12 a.m. will be delivered to the free shoot and will be allowed to withdraw. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: No, this is the wrong way! That is the wrong way, Mr President.]] - No, that's the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18925	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e18987	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19008	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The craftsman bonus can always be illuminated from two sides, that is quite clear, but ask in the trade and crafts, how the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs see this measure! They will notice that they see them consistently positive. Ask the consumers, then you know that the last action of the craftsman bonus has taken 60 000 consumers – that is, positive! If I refer to the comparison with Germany, which Mr Fuchs has brought, I must say that Germany and Austria cannot be compared at all in this respect, because legal obligations such as inspections or maintenance are also supported in the case of the German craftsman bonus. – We don’t, because that’s a 100 percent take-away effect. We promote real craftsmanship, and this is a classic win-win situation, on the one hand for the craftsman and on the other hand for the consumer. In itself, he would have to be called “consumer bonus” because the consumer has some of it. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Go no, but that's yours now in...!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think that every measure – and if it is still so small at the moment, but so effective – is the right measure to give impetus to the economy in this regard. If you look at the impulses, you can see what Professor Schneider of the University of Linz – colleague Lichtenecker, he will be a term for you – has clearly said that different effects arise, for example for the economy. According to this study, more than €10 million of funding is generated by more than 760 jobs, and GDP increases by €72 million. Even if it's just a small impulse, it's a real impulse. Mr Schellhorn, I am of your opinion on many points, perhaps not quite, namely that we should go through the trade regulations with fichtenmoped. There are already a few quality factors in training or even in the industrial sector. You have to look at the qualified one. Since to go through with the spruce moped, that's probably the wrong method. Mr Matznetter and I will perhaps allow ourselves to list the entire environmental requirements for the farms and also to talk to the Greens about how we can make a lot easier for the economy in this area if we leave there with some things – in German. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19045	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19076	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watch the gallery and in front of the TV sets! We are therefore counter to this request, because on the one hand it has a little cosmetic in itself with the equipment of € 40 million and from the effectiveness, since one has excluded material costs and new purchases, also does not reach the goal that would actually have just as this impulse of economic growth. What matters to us above all – Mr Haubner has just referred to it, including Mr Schellhorn – is: The announced steps in red tape are missing. These investments are constantly being required, and the small businesses are constantly confronted with new conditions, which in the event of more costs, and on the other hand, they are re-emerged with this money, which is given here. That is why I may perhaps be able to bring the rankings in international comparison. Mr. Minister, you have addressed the major expenditure problem. When we look at the rankings in international comparison, it is true that in Austria – Stefan Pierer of KTM said it – we are no longer talking about the additional wage costs, but about the main wage costs at almost 51 percent. We must succeed in facilitating this very noticeably. Sepp Schellhorn said, with the lawn mower – I can continue this – that we get a proper sense of relief here with the mowing. It is very essential that we become again competitive as a location. That helps us as a whole. That is why every measure has been done, even off the craftsman bonus, but if the framework conditions are missing, this is unfortunately only a cosmetic effect. That is why we also call for the necessary framework conditions such as red tape reduction and a reduction in additional labour costs. We have 10 percent disadvantages to European competitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19113	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19134	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, the craftsman bonus can be viewed from several sides. Of course, it is quite clear that the opposition is far too far from the advantages of the craftsman bonus. We have tried to achieve a truly tangible result from the government groups. Looking at the history of the craftsman bonus, it turns out that more than 90 percent of companies have opted for the extension of the craftsman bonus. According to a study by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, more than 60,000 Austrians have accepted this offer of the craftsman bonus. If we make 20 million euros available for 2016, or in addition, if the framework conditions remain, for 2017 additional €20 million, this shows me that in this difficult situation, we are trying to help consumers through this craft bonus, especially those who have the benefit of helping the micro and small businesses, so that we can boost the economy. In my opinion, this craftsman bonus is not only a financial support, it also promotes the creation of value in its own country, it also creates demand in the economy and contributes to the fight against undeclared work, which makes it an important instrument. For me, the craftsman bonus is an important driver of the economy for local businesses in the commercial and commercial sectors. It strengthens small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria and brings positive employment effects. So this is a good measure that we decide to take here. – Congratulations, Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19176	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19198	Mr President. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mr Hechtl, you have now set out exactly what the craftsman bonus is not, because he lacks something to do with both the absolute size – we are talking about an ant of €20 million – and the percentage of funding. That is, 20 percent, in fact, the replacement of sales tax. This is in no way sufficient to give rise to the effects you have outlined, such as the successful fight against undeclared work, impulses for the labour market, boosting the economy and strengthening the economy. We just have to leave the church in the village. This is from my point of view – and I join my colleague Matznetter in full content – not the most intelligent measure and solution, but has a good place in various marketing presentations, PowerPoint films, when it comes to selling the achievements of whoever – I now take the Chamber of Commerce and the Economics Association. It's on the active side. On the passive side, on the load side are such chunks as energy efficiency law, old-age recycling regulation, anti-poverty dumping law, billing, wage settlement complicated, increase in capital income tax, extension of depreciation period, registration bank obligation et cetera. On the good side is a white sheet of paper, which now stands the craftsman bonus on it. - It's supposed to be that way. We are not convinced of the methodology of the procedure either. We discussed this in the Financial Committee, there are different opinions on the subject. The IHS says this is totally budget neutral. That is, no effects, no effects, we send the money in the circle, under 5 percent administrative costs, in the case of 1.2 million euros. That's why we're wondering if that's necessary at all. There are also other studies, for example by Friedrich Schneider, who say – that's great – that there are no side effects. But the studies have not yet been analysed and evaluated. That's what I'm asking myself: What is the decision-making process if, before these studies are fully evaluated, the decision to extend is already taken? This is probably the case here. Summary: This is an ant that should not now be highly debated on the economic-political miracle weapon. Let's leave the church in the village! I conclude with Matznetter: “It’s not the smartest measure.”
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19246	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1107 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority and thus also at third reading. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker towards ÖVP.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, you should not disturb the vote. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: I just made it clear that the clubman is sitting!]] – It was still the majority. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn, ladies and gentlemen, on Immission thresholds in the Industrial Code. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:49:06]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1094, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the German Federal Law on Austrian Contributions to International Financial Institutions (IFI Contribution Act 2014) (1142 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1113, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the promotion and protection of investment (1143 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19307	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First word message: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19336	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am speaking on the subject of IFI contribution law, i.e. on item 5 and I would like to put forward some basic things. What is this about? – It is about funding, development aid, support from various organisations, including the International Development Organisation IDA, the African Development Fund ADF and the Global Environment Facility GEF. The aim of the law is to significantly increase these development aid funds. One thing before: This, of course, is – and must never be forgotten – about taxpayers, it is about taxpayers who have to be taken away from the citizens before, so that they can be distributed. This is a matter of solidarity within the state. It is necessary to take away the money from the citizens in order to create a solidarity. This solidarity, of course, also causes costs, and these funds are then spent accordingly. The decisive in this case is the question of the intensity of taking away on the one hand and the question of what was taken away then spent. This distinguishes political parties within the framework of parliamentary democracy. There are different entrances, which is also good. We also have access here, which I would like to explain now. I think that this question is always about three things or at least three things: This is the question of solidarity, the issue of effectiveness and efficiency, and to some extent the question of reciprocity. What do I mean by solidarity? – It is therefore good to also provide development assistance, so this is out of dispute, but from our point of view – as we have said – we are also taxpayers' lawyers – we already have to assess and demand appropriate solidarity with the donor countries, especially the European countries. I asked the Financial Committee, and there are countries that do not do anything at all, for example Greece, Ireland et cetera, and countries that do very little in relation, such as the Eastern European countries. This means that all these payments should be in a relationship with comparable countries. The second point is effectiveness and efficiency. Of course, it is important – also again as a taxpayer of taxpayers so to speak – to pay attention to the use of the funds. These should be used as efficiently and effectively as possible. If I look at these reports and read them through, I'm not necessarily convinced. There are some tables with green, yellow and red lamps for a long time. So I'm not really convinced now. As has been said, the second point, effectiveness and efficiency, is also an essential question. For us liberals, mutuality, reciprocity is probably also a question. If migration flows or movements are to be halted by such measures, and I would be very careful about the causes-effect-relations in the sense of causality, but if this is so, then it must be legitimate to talk to countries that are beneficiaries or beneficiaries of such services about the extent to which there are return agreements et cetera. I have the impression that this is a subject that one does not like to talk about, it is being pushed to the side. In my view, this would also be included in this overall package. What exactly is this about? – We already make 380 million € in payments. This contribution will now be increased to € 540 million for the reasons set out above. That one. Let's remember: Half an hour ago, we were looking for the millions of wine and fruit farmers in need; Colleague smoke has said 50 million € are beautiful. Thank God this decision has also been made, it has not long looked forward to it; but it is about the dimensions and relations. We are also so far that we say we do not agree now, we are this 160 million € increase too much. We believe that in view of the three assessment criteria I mentioned earlier, this €380 million, which we are already already making, is quite a sufficient contribution by the Republic of Austria in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19394	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19416	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I too, like my previous speaker, speak of the Freedom Party as item 5. It is about equipping the International Development Organisation IDA with money. Briefly summarized: We have seen what happened last year to refugee flows. There has been a clear commitment here in this House, we have said: We must try to help on the ground so that people do not move and move from their home countries to our countries. You also have to stand by knowing that this is the case, and if you know that a refugee, when he is with us in Austria, costs more. At the bottom of the developing countries, it is possible to reach ten times what it costs up here. That's a lot of money, that's not a question at all. We also know, however, that from 2014 to 2017, the IDA is putting € 52 billion into projects to push down the trend that people from these countries are not moving in our direction, but that they are simply staying on the ground. I am going to Agenda item 6: It is about the agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. This is simply an agreement, mainly within the meaning of our companies, which invest there in order to have this legal certainty. We know that Austria has such agreements with almost all countries, and the Kyrgyz Republic has not yet done so. This is not a strong economic partner, but it must be borne in mind that Austria exports 43 times more to the Kyrgyz Republic than is imported from there. This is a market that has to be expanded. There our businesses are to be supported, at least once with legal certainty, that there, where this does not work as we do, everything is under control. How important legal certainty is, I can also say today as a Carinthian. Mr Finanzminister, I would like to thank you as a Carinthian for today's solution. This has made it good for us Carinthians to know again how things will continue in the future. The insolvency is from the table. I know it costs a lot of money that taxpayers cost a lot of money. Mr Finanzminister, I have looked at all the broadcasts from Carinthia and also from this House today. Mr Ragger, member of the liberal government in Kärn- Ten, has welcomed this decision and has said that it is good that this insolvency is from the table because the Carinthia and the Republic have saved a lot of damage. But there is also the financial speaker of the Freedom Party, who sits in the National Council but is not present at the moment. I do not want to comment on this issue, because you know who in Carinthia from 1999 to 2013 put the head of state, the Minister of Finance, who was then politically responsible, also responsible for this hypo disaster. I am glad that there is this Hypo-Research Committee, whose report we will be discussing here in autumn, where we will be able to state very clearly who bears and is responsible for the biggest disaster in this Republic because of the independent trial judge and procurator. Mr. Haider, you could have saved this issue you left out today. Shame on it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] As I said, Minister of Finance, thank you for the arrangement, we can look to the future in a clear and planned way. I know what the Republic has brought in billions, the Austrian taxpayer, we also know what Bavaria has cost, but we also know what the Carinthian has cost this so far. Carinthia has received €800 million in sales, about €160 million in liability commissions; this is a revenue of just under one billion euros. €1.2 billion is now giving Carinthias, and now we can calculate where the big damage is. Carinthia's problem is that, unfortunately, these €960 million are no longer available and we now have to get over reforms again, because the money has disappeared from 1999 to 2013, under free responsibility, wherever it is. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19492	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19513	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Yes, of course, it is already a courageous Spagat that a member of the Carinthian parliamentary group, at an item on the agenda, which is actually about development cooperation and the Kyrgyz Republic, is compromising the major problems of Carinthia. We shouldn't have allowed this to happen. [[Federal Minister Schelling:... also made at the Federal Financial Framework!]] – Yes, it has been appropriate for the federal financial framework, but it is not about the federal financial framework of the Kyrgyz Republic. [[Congratulations to representatives of the Greens and warmth of the Federal Minister Schelling.]] In the Federal Financial Framework, it has been precisely appropriate because we have set up €2.5 billion to four, five years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] By the way, I hear, and I would also like to make it public, that tomorrow there is the possibility of debate, at any time, so that we can discuss it and, as I have already done today, in part, also question it. That has been correct again, I think, Mr Obernosterer said: It still costs the taxpayer a lot. So to what extent your statement remains that there is nothing more to the covenant, we will discuss that tomorrow, exactly! [[Federal Minister Schelling:... tomorrow!]] Let's get down there! The bill must be made up of what the whole cost: If you count this together – the Bayern, these are tax payers too, not only our enemies, net ultimately also Carinthia, a little bit from the other federal states, which are now getting out better, and of course, and primarily the federal taxpayers – then you can all safely come up to a contribution by the public hands of €15 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] So this creditor participation of around one billion euros is not that big, let us say it that way. The German banks are pleased that they have de facto received a requirement from the ECB to devalue to half; they are now making at least super profits in the book, and others too. We'll take a look at it. To Kyrgyz Republic: My God, there is no question of investment protection agreements, even from the point of view of Austrian investors. However, it is not the first time, but tradition, since 2013, 2014 – as long as we know these problems – we are actually voting against these investment protection agreements, because in our opinion these investment protection standards are not yet mature. You know exactly what I want to do now, and I just want to post it again: Nor do the better developments on these investment courts suffice. It might be necessary – even if I refer to a much larger subject at the moment such as the Canada agreement, the TTIP negotiations – but just as it is regulated there, it simply remains a privileged access for a particular group. You don't need that! We wanted to deposit that again, so that our counter is also well founded. A point on which I would never say – we have done so too – concerns this question, which is always asked by the ÖVP: When are you finally going to the reading rooms? – Then, if at least a few minimal improvements have been achieved! Parliament is negotiating on pressure from the political groups, not least on pressure from the Green Group, that it is reasonable to deal with documents for at least a longer time, with the documents that one wants, perhaps with all at once, and not with this completely narrow way of doing so, which in fact corresponds to a cage of freely elected Members. We cannot accept that, so that needs to be improved. That's what we'll achieve, and we'll read it. By the way: Don't worry, we also know relatively well what's going on, not only since the whole thing was leaked! So in the future we can save ourselves these loops, I just wanted to hold this for the record here again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19581	One too one in the deviation from the real issue? [[Complementary of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] [[Abg. Kogler: A forward gate!]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: Count double!]] The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19632	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also talking briefly about the innovation of the IFI contribution law, with which we are making an IDA increase – the IDA is the development agency of the World Bank Group – in order to improve the living conditions of people in countries from which there is currently very large involuntary migration, through social and economic projects, for example by generating fair income. Now, of course, it is only about the IDA-17 increase, but in addition, for the next nine years, there will be some €18 million per year, which I consider to be correct and important, which will be financed by deposit resolution. I think everything that helps to give people in these countries, especially Syria, Afghanistan, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, Congo, Myanmar, Iraq and Eritrea, these are the target countries of this special increase – a life perspective and better living conditions, makes sense in any case, not only because of the consideration that they do not have to migrate then, but of course also because of that. On the other hand, on the investment protection agreement with Kyrgyzstan: This agreement follows one of the model agreements we have on this issue. I have already said it in committee: A truly coherent development policy, that is, a development policy that not only provides development aid, but also takes place in the financial committee, the Economic Committee, the Committee on Agriculture, the Scientific Committee – more or less in all the committees of this House – helps countries of the global south to have a much more effective and effective chance of achieving sustainable development than do individual funding. These include, for example, double taxation agreements, trade agreements or investment protection agreements such as these. The Minister told me in the committee that the model agreement has an environmental and a work clause. – Yes, it does! Article 4 ‘Investments and the environment’ means: ‘The Parties recognise that it is not appropriate to encourage an investment by weakening national environmental law.’ – A bi-liner. Article 5 ‘Investment and work’ means: The ‘Contracting Parties recognise that it is not appropriate to encourage an investment by weakening the national law on the protection of workers’. – Yes, yes, but these are not really strong clauses, which help countries to protect their environment, for example, or to avoid evading their employment standards by investors who are pressured to lower; and we know this pressure that often comes with investment considerations. What I want to say is: I think it is not acceptable to have such model agreements, and I very much hope that we are soon going to review these model agreements – for example, in the case of double taxation agreements – and, especially in the light of the 2030 Agenda, the Sustainable Development Goals – we have heard the UN Secretary-General here a few weeks ago – so that they contribute to a coherent development policy for the sake of the people concerned. Of course, they are supposed to protect our investments, not a question, but at fair conditions and at an eye. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19678	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19699	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Cooperation at an eye-to-face was the good word of my predecessor, and this is also the subject of both points. Only because it is a model agreement does it not yet mean that it is actually sustainable, fair, socially just, and that I agree with my previous speaker completely. The second item on the agenda is development cooperation. There is not only the bilateral level, there is also the important multinational and multilateral A level which is actually supposed to support internationally. It is easy to see what money is actually spent on, as is the case with bilateral, direct and development cooperation from Austria. Transparency is about to change, especially when it comes to international financial institutions. Where do Austrian taxpayers actually flow? Who is actually being supported? Are social standards and environmental standards actually being respected? Is there also an improvement in the life situation of people on the ground, especially in the global south? In principle, the increases – including the bilateral – are positive. It is only so, Mr Minister, because of the thinning of recent years it simply needs more than these mini-steps in the right direction. Much more effort is needed, including coherent effort by all ministries, but, of course, an effort by the Ministry of Finance. It is – and I hear that over and over again – not a pity at a high level. The NGOs, all development aid organisations and organisations that are actually engaged in development cooperation have been complaining for years, almost for decades, that there is no financial support. That is why it is not a pity at a high level, but at the moment the standard is so low in terms of financial budgeting on the part of Austria that it needs more than these mini steps in the right direction and this little shimmer on the horizon. Development cooperation is primarily for the fight against poverty, which is clear, that is internationally undisputed, the question of whether those funds that are now being increased will actually be used for the affected regions, the so-called Least Developed Counties. We will observe this very carefully, because of course we will be very annoying and will see whether it is only about repatriation and only about reducing the pressure on migration, or whether it is really about making poor regions fit for the future, because people there where they are located have a life perspective, and where they and their families live. That is why development cooperation is concerned, not exclusively with reducing migration pressure.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19744	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19766	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear hypo-numbers! On the subject of IFI contribution law in advance: NEOS fully supports the increase in the Austrian contribution to the IDA, the International Development Organisation, one of the five organisations in the World Bank Group, because the World Bank is to contribute to the relief of migration pressure with these additional resources. Mr Obernosterer reminded us that most and many colleagues from all the political groups in this House, but also the ministers responsible, first and foremost the Foreign Minister, have repeatedly stressed: If we want to reduce the migration movement, this also means fighting the causes; and fighting causes also means, and above all, creating opportunities and guaranteeing security in poor regions. It costs money, money to be provided by the developed world. Mr Kassinger, unlike you, I believe that the IDA is a guarantee that this money will be used efficiently. Another point: I believe that it is particularly important for Austria to make a contribution because, given the social challenges and the costs we face as a result of immigration, every euro we invest in combating the causes is well-designed. We all know that the costs of dealing with immigration are unevenly higher than the costs of avoiding immigration, and for this reason we also support the request. Even if development cooperation is going in the right direction – at the pace, Mr. Federal Minister, we could get a little laid down. You once said, I think, that the most important thing is to take the right step in the right direction. – This is a real step in the right direction, but it is a very small step. Let me give you a few numbers here! In 2015, Austria made just under €1.1 billion of official EZA payments, which was 0.32 percent of gross national income. To remember: Austria has committed itself to spending 0.7 percent. Austria has committed itself to this already decades ago, Austria has once again committed itself to the government programme, and Austria has once again solemnly committed itself to it with other EU Member States in the autumn of last year. These 0.7 percent would be about €2.5 billion today. That is, the gap between what we do and what we want to do and have promised to do is about € 1.45 billion. The additional contribution of €160 million, divided into nine years, corresponds to about €18 million annually, which is 1.2 percent of the previously mentioned gap – a very small step in the right direction, but somehow we do not get out of the spot. I compare this, Mr. Federal Minister, with a 100-metre run: 100 meters, this is a route from this pult to a point outside the Volksgarten – and we have come so far. [[the speaker makes a big step to the left]] So it is still a long way, and I believe, Federal Minister, we must meet here 80 times before we have closed this gap. So often it won't be, and so often we won't congratulate you, so my request to you – almost a year ago you got the Foreign Minister's plan to achieve this 0.7 percent – is that the next step, the next step might be a little bigger, a little higher. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19817	For the Protocol: How much was that? A meter? – 1,20 meters; for the stenographs. [[Abg. Vavrik: (on the way to his seat) 1,20 meters!]] [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] The next speaker was Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19860	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! On the topic of international financial institutions: The Republic of Austria is a member of international financial institutions, the IFI contribution law is in the Federal Law I. Nr. 86/2014. Now, because of an increase in our contributions, there is a change in the law. Taking into account the existing legislation, Austria has to pay €380.78 million in payments over a period of three years. With the additional one-time power of 159.75 million, it should be possible in the 17th century. IDA-period to finance or promote further projects. The total output of Austria would therefore amount to € 540,53 million. It should therefore be assumed that the Federal Government's commitments, including financial ones, are: Come on. However, this amendment does not allow any conclusions on the nature of the one-time service referred to, so that an agreement to change the law is to be questioned. Austria is characterised by the performance of financial services to international organisations under corresponding agreements. The financing of contributions to be defined as social benefits is provided by the local economy and the taxpayers. The population has a right to information, it is held as well as appropriate tests on dedication and any repayment. The following questions are also eligible: Who will test ADF, IDA and GEF? How do any tests present themselves? In what form are test results published? The fulfilment of international assistance or support is dependent on a far-reaching economic crisis and also on the services related to the Syria crisis. Both the own financial situation and the highest number of unemployed people require a rethinking in terms of foreign payments to ensure the safety of the local population, for example in the field of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19896	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19920	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Watch the screens! No one's fleeing for no reason. . I borrowed this sentence from my esteemed colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg because he explains very aptly and in brief why so many migrants are heading towards Europe next to those who are persecuted after the Geneva Convention on Refugees. Refugees are not always just violence and war. We know that many people also leave their homes because of bitter poverty, inability, hunger and unemployment. Our debates here in this House have been very focused on the challenges of refugee and asylum in recent months and weeks. [[Abg. Singer: -Unween!]] The migration movements demand our country. We have discussed a lot about it, and that is also important and correct. However, we must not only confine ourselves to this inner view and discuss the challenges that are really very close to us, but it is absolutely necessary that we also think more strongly about strategies, how we can help people on the ground so that they do not have to leave their homes at all. In order for movements in the current intensity not to take place, it is essential that all the wealthy states of the world contribute to the opportunity for people in poorer countries to live a decent life in their home country. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A very sensible way of providing support is to provide the International Development Organisation, IDA, with additional resources. The IDA has put the current period among the priorities relevant for poverty reduction fragile states, climate change, genders and inclusive growth. Projects will be supported to improve the working and living situation of local people. Ladies and gentlemen, that will not be enough. It will not be enough to provide further State resources. In my opinion, we also urgently need to start an intensive discussion on how we can increasingly involve the Austrian private sector in successful development cooperation, how we can successfully use the great technical and economic know-how of our businesses for the benefit of the third world countries. And we, too, as consumers, have the power to influence, for example by buying fair traded products and critically questioning our consumer behaviour. If we make it possible for people to stay in their homes, a lot of suffering will be avoided and all of us will be helped. However, this will not go without a certain rethinking in our society, and I would like to ask you to cooperate in this direction. I would like to make very brief use of the remaining time to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to Ethiopia. Because of a massive drought, about 10 million people will be dependent on food aid this year. We must together bring this issue to the attention of all and provide for helpfulness and help. Otherwise, we are in danger of people in Ethiopia being forced to move towards Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19963	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e19984	Although Mr Kogler is not in the room now: I think it is like my colleague, Mr Obernosterer, and would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the agreement in the history of the ITA, because an insolvency of Carinthia has been turned away. Kogler thinks it's not part of it, but he talked about it for 3 minutes. So somehow you can connect that. I welcome the President-in-Office, the Minister, the ladies and gentlemen, the audiences in the gallery and in front of the screens. I am speaking today exclusively of the Kyrgyz-Austrian agreement. “Promoting and protecting investment” is very large and bold above. When I held the agreement in my hands, I came up with the idea of how far away the aspirations in different agreements that we have here are from each other. On the one hand, there is the bilateral agreement between Austria and the Kyrgyz Republic to protect fair trade, competition, to promote the economy and, finally, to support friendly relations. It is about supporting Austrian companies in their investment efforts. And with CETA and TTIP a total contradiction: Transparency and undemocratic processes, investment protection for large corporations, special rights with special courts, with special legislation – all just special, special, special. In the present form, this Agreement is not an agreement that is supportive. We are actually building only a porcelain shop around the large corporations as far as CETA and TTIP are concerned. We must not forget that it is €1,000 billion in tax evasion in Europe. This is almost 200 times as much as Kyrgyzstan's GDP, which we are talking about today in the agreement. I don't think these great ones should get super-rights again. It has failed, we ask the rich to check out whether the Amazon, Starbucks or McDonald's is. These are the ones that move the money we would need for schools, kindergartens and hospitals. I took a few lines from a speech by Federal Chancellor Merkel to TTIP: "Parliament's involvement also illustrates the democratic legitimacy of the negotiation process. It strengthens the transparency of the negotiations, and, I say, it leads to new ideas. Finally, we want a good agreement, which will not only be carried by governments and Member States, but also by Parliaments." Thank you for these words, Mrs. Federal Chancellor! So there can be no majority in this House for TTIP. This can also be done in Brussels. But back to the agreement with the Kyrgyz Republic: This agreement concerns the protection of the environment and workers and possible compensation for losses in the event of an armed conflict, an emergency, a revolution, and civil unrest. And above all, that is very important, this agreement is about an agreement between two completely different legal states, namely Austria and Kyrgyzstan. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20033	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20054	I do not want to repeat the consensus we all have here, namely that those who live in difficult areas should be able to develop an economic outlook there. The question is: Why is too little done for this, and who is responsible for it? This is the crucial question, and this concerns the former Soviet republics, African countries, Asian countries, but also the wealth zones that were shooting off and believe that the withdrawal is helpful. The economic downturn will also not contribute in the long run. In this context, TTIP and CETA should also be assessed according to the question: Will these agreements reinforce these differences and these shales, or will they break them down? – If the trade agreements result in the wealth zones becoming even more prosperous zones, this will naturally lead to an increase in the issue of global distribution in combination with the economic deficits. And if I do not answer this question, this will lead to the movement of migration flows, because many will say: Wait a minute, up there, you live better! Our raw materials will take us away anyway, that, and they already have, I will simply re-route our raw materials and our energy reserves! And all of this is combined with the effects of climate change and the need to address these effects. These are the crucial questions. The leaders in governments or in the World Bank or in the Monetary Fund or anywhere else have to find a global New Deal – not only a national we are looking for, but a global one – because then the problems also become so huge in combination with population growth that they can no longer be solved by politics and also by the political partners, in the economy, in civil society, wherever they may be. Then, however, many things collapse, which are so incredibly important to us and which we have fought in recent years and decades. These are not just the social and cultural and all these identities and the basic values, all of them, and so on. It is simply the living conditions and the life models, which are then the disposition – of course, primarily in the welfare zones. That's the big question! As those in Davos will have to deal with other issues, those in the European Union will have to deal with them in some way, they will all have to think a little bit together. Maybe now even Bernie Sanders is helping us get a little bit of a thought. That's notable what he's doing at the moment on the subject and how he's actually forcing Hillary Clinton to include these topics. Perhaps if she defeated the crazy Trump then in the immediate debate, this also leads to a rethinking in the most important country of economic importance, in combination with the countries that also play a role there, such as China and many others. That is the crucial question. Once we have more time, Minister of Finance, we will discuss this here in the context of what a contribution can then also be made by a country like Austria – also in our interest!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20099	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The vote will be taken separately on each committee request. First vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law amending the German Federal Law on Austrian Contributions to International Financial Institutions, including title and receipt in 1142 of the Supplements. Who agrees? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Third reading: Who agrees with this in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority, so it is also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 6: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the promotion and protection of investment (1113 of the Supplements), as provided for in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. Who agrees? – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. [[18:31:44]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1111)_Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a law to combat wage and social dumping (LSD-BG) and amending the Labour Contract Act, the Labour Law, the Land Labor Law 1984, the Labour Inspectorate Act 1993, the Home Labour Law 1960, the Employment and Self-Employee Prevention Act, the Occupational Pension Act, the Labour and Social Law, the Social Anti-Fraud Act and the General Social Insurance Act (1133 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1439/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on: Enforce fair procurement law and best bidder principle (1134, e.g.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1131/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, Members and colleagues on the permit of work for asylum seekers in Austria (1135 d.a.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 1566/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues on strengthening wage controls by increasing staff of the financial police (1136 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1474/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues on further development of procurement law in order to increase the effectiveness of the best bidder principle (1137, e.g.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 760/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the accident in unemployment insurance and the AMS budget (1138, e.g.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Monthly content including a quarterly statement (1139 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20243	We now come to points 7 to 13 of the agenda, which we debate under one. Reporting does not appear to be desirable. That is why we are going into the debate. First speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20273	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have the wage and social dumping law on the program, a law that was first lifted out of baptism in 2011, so to speak, at that time still as an attachment. Now it's a law of its own for the first time. The toothless bite has now, as it were, got a face, but it remains toothless, although I do not want to hide that it is once a positive thing that you have made it your own law. This wage and social dumping law should protect against wage and social dumping. It is easy to explain why we have been so critical of this law from the very beginning. We are in the situation that the opening of the East has washed many companies from the former Eastern states on the Austrian labour market, especially after Vienna, into the eastern region of Austria. This is particularly the case in the United Kingdom. Construction sector and is a very big problem for domestic construction companies, because of course at low-cost dumping prices can be offered here. It does not happen, however, that many companies from the East are active in these areas, especially in these areas, which are the result of numerous questions we have made to the Minister of Social Affairs or to his predecessors. Now, honestly, I would like to say: Of course, it was well meant that this wage and social dumping law should be combated, but we still cannot fight wage and social dumping. Because one thing is quite clear: Social security is still paid in the home country. The only thing that shows up is that there are some queer differences. Then something else comes along, and we have always strongly criticized this: This is to be checked by the financial police. Now I know that the financial police has been increased – that's what your predecessor has explained to us – by 1. The de facto staff stand has been doubled in January. But talk to the financial politicians: They are mainly used to ensure that they properly verify compliance with the registry obligation. If you look at how the financial police system works – they get a job, a definition of how many points they have to reach, and every offence they discover has a certain number of points – then it is also quite understandable that they focus on such things and that it meets exactly those who are to meet this wage and social dumping law in the rarest cases. Companies that work properly in Austria, which register their employees properly, are inconceivably often affected. If Austrian companies that work with regular staff – so there are no hire workers, there are no sub-contractors, but they have forgotten to work with regular staff – then the law goes on mercilessly. There is also a certain flexibility, because it may not be possible that a company that has already registered its regular staff for 12 months a year will immediately catch the trap because of small things. Those who work well will be hit by the law again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To companies operating wage and social dumping: What's going on? – There's an ad, then this company is almost calmed down, which goes into bankruptcy, no matter what. That means that the penalty can no longer be executed. A few days later, the same managing director with a new company that changed the name a little. That is exactly what the problem is, and you will not really be mastered by this law. We needed an overall concept, especially for the construction industry. There are numerous requests on our part that you either delay or reject. One of these would have been the sectoral closure of the labour market, for example. There comes permanent regularity: It's not possible! Or: We have had a request in the committee to transfer the Burgenland model – this is a model that the Burgenlander Landtag has decided to include the votes of the Social Democrats, Mr Bundesminister – to the whole of Austria. This was delayed by the reason that there is also a point on family aid. It is not even discussed that we are saying that individual points cannot be taken over at all. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Or the further development of the best bidder principle: Of course, it has to be decided at the end of the Constitutional Committee, but it cannot be said that the Committee, in its area, in which it is concerned, is permanently excluded from everything. It's all always out of stock. This is exactly the problem we are facing. That is to say, we are making a law that is well meant, but in truth, those who work well and properly really punish, while others who do not work so well get away from it. The example I have mentioned to you is not quite the hair of the Federal Minister. A good acquaintance of mine has a large company in Vienna in the construction industry. He told me, a colleague, also a great entrepreneur in Vienna, got the first penalty for anything and then said: Now I pick up the hat on it, I go to Slovakia, there they can all like me, because there are no more fines in there, since I switch the address and do this, this and that. And he dismissed the workers he had in Austria. In other words, with an over-bureaucracy – and this is what you are doing here – you can make it that unemployment is increasing in the area. I say quite honestly to you that it must also be considered that companies with only regular staff may be separated from those who are permanently only working with sub-contractors, with posted workers from other European countries. Then: 138 000 posted workers in 2015 should give all of us thought! This can no longer be done by the domestic labour market. That's the lever set up. Mr Federal Minister, you are also called upon to finally renegotiate this at European level. That is not how it works, and so the Austrian labour market will not recover.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20352	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20374	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We will still hear today that what is available for decision-making is too sharp, and we have now heard that the FPÖ is too little sharp. The FPÖ believes that this change of law will not bring the benefits it expects. We will probably hear from Mr Loacker today that he feels that this new wage and social dumping law is far too sharp, because it marks off the Austrian labour market. I tell you, we are facing the situation today – and this is nothing new –: If the economy in Europe is weakening if the economy does not grow in Europe, then we are faced with increased competition, especially in Austria. The following are known to you: Under-remuneration, wage and social dumping. It is precisely this bill that takes advantage of the EU's compatibility with EU law up to the limits of legal conformity. We decide today. When it comes to implementing this in practice, this law will clearly lay down that all employees in Austria will be paid for the work done by those laid down in the relevant collective agreement. It will also clearly improve the performance of cross-border shipments and the fight against wage and social dumping in this context. I can also correct: In 2015, there were 133 680 shipments. That is why cooperation between all the control authorities is very important for this law. You are right, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, especially in the field of construction, we must focus much more on wage and social dumping, which is much more important. We know that every fourth company from abroad operates under-remuneration in the construction sector. For this reason, the control bodies of the building workers' holiday and handling fund are focused on these companies and not on the Austrian companies, because there we have a hit rate of less than 1 percent for the under-paid, and not one of 25 percent for the foreign companies. I think that the control authorities need to be more active in all areas. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: I hope they do!]] – Let us do that, Mr. Wurm! With this law, ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against wage and social dumping, we want not only to tighten the screws, but also to create new instruments. Unfortunately, it has not been mentioned by the FPÖ that we decide by this law in the construction sector a client liability, which will ensure that all Austrian clients, private or public, are liable if they order foreign companies and do not pay the right wages and do not deliver the right contributions. That is exactly the instrument to call on the Austrian clients very clearly. Please, write this in all the main books of the Austrian client, whether private or public! If an Austrian client orders an Austrian company – no liability; if an Austrian company orders a foreign company – full liability! I think this is very courageous, I think that this is a right approach to fair competition and an important further step towards combating wage and social dumping and fair competition. Finally, my appeal to all Austrian clients: Perhaps we can all think of each other a little more patriotic and say that the money we all generate together in this country we want to make available to Austrian companies again by giving them the orders! I would like to conclude by thanking the construction social partners, I know it was not an easy decision to go there. I would like to thank the experts in the Social Ministry who have also put this political will into this law, and ultimately also all the political parties who will vote in favour of this law today, the Austrian People's Party, the Greens and, of course, my SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20413	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20435	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you go through the city, have you looked up on a structure lately? Did you notice anything? – So I noticed especially last year that there are more and more hectic, very young men who seem to be very poorly trained in what they are doing. One notices this because it is hard to push a full pusher, just right over a ramp leading up to the building container. They hardly bring her up. Or: The workers in the laps, where walls are torn in or intermediate ceilings are removed, have no protective helmets. They don't have work clothes either, they wear jogging suits. [[Abg. Loacker: Did you show it?]] Or: Those who mill, drill, drill with punch drills – they have no hearing protection. Ladies and gentlemen! Just a few days ago, I passed by a high gear. There one worked, if I could recognize this, very old man, I would say so around the 70, and a very, very young man, I was not sure if this was not another child. They turned around there with color cubes and made improvement work. I became quite strange when I saw that. [[Abg. Loacker: Did you see that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure people who organize and offer such work don't pay fair and correct either, who would certainly pay less than an Austrian worker, painter or even only auxiliary workers would get. There are actually people who work like this here in Austria today, not 150 years ago, and I say clearly and clearly: I don't want this, we Greens don't want it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I am very glad that we have for the first time had a lever with the wage and social dumping law for the first time in a few years. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But if you've seen the construction workers last week, the law doesn't work!]] – No, it doesn’t work from today to tomorrow, no, certainly not. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Since 2011 there is the law!]] This is not possible from today to tomorrow, because there are Austrian homeowners and Austrian client companies who employ foreign companies or foreign workers exactly on such conditions. The most vulnerable, also mentioned by Mr Muchich, is certainly the construction industry, but also in tourism, in agriculture, in part in social services, in care, there is definitely more than just the always quoted few black sheep. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the government template to be discussed here today will bring us forward in the fight for fair work. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It benefits the workers concerned, it also benefits Austrian workers, because it protects them from dumping, and, above all, it benefits those Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises that employ their people in accordance with the law. [[Abg. Wöger: Very good!]] That's exactly what you really need to emphasize: This law supports fair Austrian companies! [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wögerer: Bravo!]] Why you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, with the argument that it still has gaps – it has gaps, yes, I say – to reject this law, I cannot understand! Yeah, it's got gaps, but why do you want to? Don't close these gaps, why don't you want to work on an improvement? I just can't understand. I think that the wage and social dumping law is overall on a good track, and we support this continuing development that has taken place in recent years. It is much more important than to say that there are gaps, so we do not want to have anything to do with it, I say we need to strengthen the controls. You mentioned this too, Mr Muchich. There's definitely a vulnerability. It has already been mentioned: Responsible especially for the posted workers is the financial police, which has a lot of tasks and is definitely under-occupied if one wants to achieve a semi-acceptable control density. That is to say, I have formulated this again in a request that has been referred back to us, and we need massively more resources. I therefore call on the EIA, in particular, to act on Minister for Finance Schelling so that we can get more resources. If we can't control any more, that's weakening the effect of this good law. This is bad for the Austrian workers and this in turn is bad for the small and medium-sized enterprises working fairly in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also progress in this respect, and this progress has been a key point for us to agree that we have also agreed, and a monitoring plan will be drawn up jointly by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs, and this control plan must also be equipped with the appropriate resources. Waterdrops: He's only coming from 2018. However, it is an important step in the right direction, so this law gets good conscience of our support – with the hope that it will be further developed to close even existing gaps. Very briefly, I would like to address another request in this block, which includes six applications, namely one which concerns the development of the right to award. You can all remember: After tough negotiations, talks, especially with the federal states, we finally reached a good innovation at the end of last year, which is particularly effective for public works contracts. Now it is about involving other sectors, social services, public transport, partly adult education, and as I have heard, the negotiations – looking back at the ÖVP – are unfortunately a little laborious. We have to move on. I would just like to ask and ask that all the constructive forces come together to enable us to decide a good innovation as soon as possible, because it is about billions that we either need to give to some cheap bidder or give to a good and fair and regional undertaking. That's what we want, that's a big concern to us Greens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20564	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20585	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It really must be a good law if the individual points are also positively assessed by the Greens. Thank you, my colleague, dear, I share this view, but we are not entirely in agreement with the gaps. But it's right, it's a process. We have now said the third amendment to the wage and social dumping law, but quite frankly: First of all, it is not a cavalier's crime, and second, of course, it is also always clear from practice that individual points need to be changed or changed. Overall, as a headline, the effective fight against wage and social dumping and also ensuring fair competition for domestic undertakings, especially for the small and medium-sized economy. Checks and penalties where wage dumping is carried out against fair competition and, if possible, no shocks for proper business, this is also a major concern for us, because everyone knows that when checks are carried out at the end of the day, they should not be unduly burdened by bureaucracy or overtime. Legal certainty is also given by a decree which reaches the 10% limit, namely according to the principle: advise instead of punish. Another point is bureaucratic relief for cross-border companies: for example, the free circulation of employees in the field of research and development, if these groups are active internationally, measures to comply with Austrian labour and social standards and to be better able to impose penalties, especially for companies without a registered office in Austria, equal pay plus special payments, holidays and supplements under collective agreement also for posted workers. The last point I would like to address is the client's liability for wage entitlements for cross-border workers. This will move clients to select serious companies. In this regard, we have also decided on a statement from the Committee that, whether it is a private person or a company, a first-time contractor is not liable as a contracting entity when a authorised undertaking has been commissioned domestically and is not a conscious circumvention business. That means the chain works like this: If you are commissioned to a domestic company and are not informed that there is, so to speak, a subcontractor who is running wage dumping, then you are not in the liability chain and not affected by it. That was important to us. It's a bit complicated in the legislative text, I'll put it that way. I think we have done quite well with this committee statement. Overall, I can say that the present draft will bring substantial improvements, especially as regards competition, also in relation to the domestic economy, and it will also ensure greater red tape in the bureaucratic field as well as improved enforcement. Of course, he'll get our approval. I would like to address another point which is not on the agenda because we have dealt with these requests but have postponed them because negotiations are ongoing in this area. We have had eleven points on the agenda on the need-oriented minimum security, and I would like to conclude by saying a few sentences. First: It was a very objective discussion that took place on this subject, which certainly also creates emotions, and I would like to thank all the political groups for that. Secondly, I think there is already agreement on a number of points, especially as regards the data, the data situation, that it cannot be that we have to wait ten months until we know at all how many minimum insurance providers there have been so to speak in the previous year. The increased conversion to benefits in kind in this area, so that the funds are also used effectively, is certainly also a point which many of the people in this area also agree on. The third area: this re-entry bonus. We support those people who want to go back to the job, because we, especially we of the ÖVP, have always said in the introduction of the minimum guarantee, that can't be hammock, that can't be a permanent facility, but we have to help people get back into work. There are also points which certainly separate us or which we are still discussing, for example the area of cover. I would like to point out that, since yesterday, there is also a expertise from the labour and social law experts, Professor Dr. Mazal, which makes it possible to cover the amount of money. We have proposed this € 1,500. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – Because there are, of course, different opinions. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But it's not on the agenda at all!]] I know it is not on the agenda, but it was nevertheless an essential area in the Committee, and I would like to address it because it is up-to-date because it was presented only yesterday. I believe that we should look at this issue again, and my request to you, Mr Minister, that we should jointly try to achieve a solution, including with regard to the need-oriented minimum guarantee, so that we can give it to those people who need it for a certain period of time, but that the balance between working people and those who are alert to a minimum guarantee is still guaranteed! That is our demand and our request in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20630	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20651	Mr President. Estimated Minister! My previous speakers have said that the labour market – and this can certainly be confirmed – is burdened with nearly 500 000 unemployed, but one thing is clear: the aggravation of this law does not relieve the labour market! That's quite logical to see once. The basic problem for us to have such a high level of unemployment is that employees cost too much and earn too little; they cost too much in principle. In this area in particular, there must be a discharge, in addition to debureaucratisation, and in addition to cutting off the trade regulations, so that the labour market can be stimulated. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity and give the colleague treasure a little bit. I assume that you have gone through the city in Vienna and not in Temeswar, and I also believe that this is the case in Vienna, but I am careful that the entrepreneurs who build a structure in Vienna work unfairly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I am opposed to the package that we have an exploitary system. You simply don't like the company in this country, and that's not true either! [[Abg. Honey: Did I say that? Did I flatten?]] Just because some green council member may be unfair, I also do not say flat-rate that the Greens are unfair. That is not what you are doing, and I do not want to do that either, I want to reject it clearly. [[Abg. Honey: I didn't standardize! Didn't you listen? I said more and more! Please check in the minutes!]] You've only seen hazy people. You said you only saw more hectic people. [[Abg. Honey: More and more, I said! Have you ever looked at the law? You don't know what you're talking about!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Perhaps this is also a reason why we need this directive on postings. Because – and compare this with entrepreneurship now! – there are also many Austrian companies working abroad, and they are not expected to send more workers abroad according to their logic. Is it not destructive for people from the East not to be allowed to work with us because they would take away our people? That's not true! The fact is that many people in Austria do not want to make certain services at all, such as the care of older people. And, of course, there are also companies that have professionalized this care, so to speak, because Slovak employees come to Austria to do this job, a job that Austrians do not want to do anymore. We had once had the case that the mother of a German chancellor had to be cared for and made by a worker from abroad. When it comes to wage and social dumping control legislation and debureaucratisation – which has long been on the agenda – it is also necessary to talk about the fact that the last novel, which has also regulated night rest periods in tourism, has, above all, caused a higher degree of red tape and has not led to any red tape. And that's a problem where many say: I can't guarantee that any more, I assume I'm being punished! And so is the attitude in this country: Entrepreneurs assume that they will pay punishment because they can no longer comply with the law, because laws are only made by bureaucrats and not by practitioners. In this trend mill we are now: that entrepreneurs are increasingly expecting punishment and we are increasingly faced with an anti-entrepreneurship attitude like that of yours, and then many companies really have no desire to stay in Austria, and, as Mrs Belakovich has said, we are going to Slovakia, for example. That's the result! And the result of this is that we in Austria are losing jobs. And that's why I'm so opposed that this will be tightened again.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20729	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20750	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Schellhorn, I believe that fair competition must not necessarily be anti-entrepreneurship. [[Abg. Schellhorn speaks to Abg. Honey.]] Unfortunately, he's not listening right now! Mr Schellhorn, I do not think that fair competition must be against businesses. I mean, fair competition simply ensures that you have fair working conditions on the one hand and that there are also fair conditions for entrepreneurs. And that would have to be in the interests of NEOS, I would think. I believe that the wage and social dumping control law, which was adopted in 2011, can be described as a demonstration project at European level because, in the current legal framework, there is the possibility of ensuring fair conditions of competition for businesses on the one hand, but on the other hand, ensuring that there is a fair remuneration for workers. And I think that's actually, as I said, a show project. That this law is not toothless, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I have already explained in the Committee, by pointing out that in the years since the law was effective, there have been 940 legal decisions based on under-remuneration. This has helped, or enabled, 2,000 workers in their personal situation. That is not a toothless law, but a very important law, I would say, and also a contribution to the justice of workers. I also do not think that this law, as the colleagues of the NEOS say, is a withdrawal of the labour market. We don't want that either! We too do not want to shut down the labour market, because we also know that the posting of workers from Austria is an important contribution for many entrepreneurs to their economic strength and an important element in ensuring their location. Therefore: No excuses, but free movement, which is also a sign of Europe or an important contribution to the common interest in the European Union, where clear rules and clear directives are needed. I believe that the wage and social dumping law also ensures that international solidarity between employers and workers is strengthened a little. Today we are innovation this law, as has already been mentioned. It is new in the area of liability and the dimensions of punishment. A control plan will also be drawn up. There will be international cooperation between the authorities. And there should also be a cross-border enforcement of labour law claims. So it's a good law! I am sorry that the liberals do not agree with this law. I cannot fully understand this decision, and I cannot really understand the arguments put forward here by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein. Because – and I ask you that quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party –: What would be the alternative if we didn't decide on this law? [[Abg. Peter Wurm: A better thing!]] This would mean that we do not have a means of combating wage and social dumping. And then we would have no means of ensuring fair competition for entrepreneurs. And that would be, if I may say so, I find it irrational. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That was intertwined now! That's where the musician was better!]] Responsible policy is not only to address problems, just as they always do, but also to solve the problems, just as Federal Minister Stöger does.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20826	Next speaker: Mrs Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20847	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== May we had 424 697 unemployed in Austria, and that is, I think, a number that should give us all a thought. It is high time to put together measures so that these unemployed people have the opportunity to get back into the work process and find work. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Today, a wide range of social issues are under discussion, and we need to see where specific measures need to be taken so that jobs can be maintained and created. In this respect, the wage and social dumping law that we are discussing today is, in our view, an absolutely sensible law. Because let's think about it. 2004 was the Easter enlargement, and we all realized that companies from the former Eastern block have started to offer with us. There are lower social standards there than with us, the companies there have the opportunity to offer cheaper, and yet make profits. But our companies are not competitive, and there is a legislative task to ensure that our companies remain competitive if we do not want to see how successively our social standards go down. This too is a logic of the law: Whenever it is offered cheaply again and the local companies no longer receive orders, the social standards will move down. I think we all don't want this, and that's why we have to make sure that fair competition exists and that those companies that act fairly and correctly also have the chance to get jobs and get orders. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The construction industry in particular shows us how fast-moving and flexible companies are. There is now no longer any spot across Austria, where there are no suppliers from Hungary, Slo-Wannie, from former Eastern block states that are cheaper. Therefore, first priority: Protecting local companies with fair measures! Dear ladies and gentlemen, but also our companies have learned. 40 percent of the “flags off,” who say: If I make it cheaper, I simply make a branch office in Hungary, hire people there and send the Austrian market from there! – That can’t be in the sense of Austrians either if we make a clear commitment to the social state and if we want to maintain the social state at the level we have! It is also the legislative matter concerning best bidders instead of cheap bidders on this agenda. To this end, the Greens have submitted a request for the extension of the criteria catalogue. We are also very clear about this because we believe it makes sense to introduce criteria that allow local entrepreneurs to get back orders. It can't be that only the low-cost bidder gets the surcharge, namely the low-cost bidder with non-domestic workers. We must take these measures very specifically at this stage, where it is economically difficult. I am also of the opinion of Mr Schellhorn: We must do everything we can to create a business-friendly climate! We need to reduce bureaucracy, not only should we talk about it, but we should also implement this measure. If I make up the register order, which is supposed to include 72 pages, I have to say: Although we are always talking about the reduction of bureaucracy, in reality, the amount of bureaucracy is produced. We also need to implement what we verbally confess ourselves to. We really have to go down the bureaucracy. We need to reduce the additional wage costs. The additional labour costs have already become wage capital costs, and many times the reason why companies do not recruit anyone anymore. That means we have to do everything we can to create an entrepreneurial climate. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few more words about the financial police! Of course, laws need to be checked, but it cannot be that according to statistics domestic companies are controlled 13 times as often as foreign companies. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's something to get!]] Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, you say it's something to get. That's probably the reason. But we do not want this because domestic companies – and this is proven – are not as often criminal as foreign companies. Let's look where there are letterbox companies, which in a short time, from a few employees to several hundred, and which are gone just as quickly as they came! These are companies where there is no liability where there is no security for employees. Let's look at that! If there were to be an increase in the financial police, then we would only agree with the Stronach team if there was a very clear requirement, namely that the financial police were specifically controlling foreign companies, because we believe that our domestic companies already have so many beatings between the legs that our domestic companies are being so tightened up and criminalized – the word “Schurkenstaat”, which we had to hear from the Greens – that we can no longer talk about our domestic companies finding a business-friendly environment. However, we from the Stronach team want a business-friendly environment so that jobs are created and that Austria can develop on a good footing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20906	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20927	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The wage and social dumping law is a milestone – a milestone that ensures more fairness and more equal opportunities in the domestic labour market! This is very important to me as the Minister for Social Affairs, and I thank all those who have contributed to developing this law, developing this law and also moving it in the direction that it can work positively. Wage dumping and social dumping destroy the foundations of our labour market. Wage dumping and social dumping undermine our well-functioning social system. And that's not what we want! We rely on the principle: equal pay for equal work in the same place of work! And with this law we will be able to get closer to this goal and achieve it in such a way that we can, as it were, also pass on punishment abroad or bring it there. We rely on stricter controls, and we rely on better enforcement abroad. This is one of the most stringent laws in Europe, and this is what characterizes us. I now allow myself to comment on a few questions. First: I'll bet you: We want an entrepreneurial climate! And a business-friendly climate means that the conditions that exist in Austria must also be met by all. This is the most important thing to ensure a business-friendly climate. When you look at the numbers, you see: ==References== On May 6, 2011, we found a sub-remuneration in Austria in 6 451 cases. There were also Austrian companies below. It's important to me that you don't allow under-remuneration in any case. We brought in €28 million of fines at this time. I could say a few more. In any case, it is important to me that we can act in this area, that we clearly explain our position. I particularly thank the Greens and the Stronach team for saying: Yes, we recognize the value of this law! Mr Schellhorn, look at my CV! It says inside that I am a person oriented to practical solutions. My interest is always to find practical solutions, and I am always willing to do even more if it is possible. On Mrs Dietrich: § 69 of the new law provides for a risk-based control plan. It will be developed jointly by Minister of Finance Schelling and I, and we will also report on it to Parliament. I am concerned with doing so transparently. And then we can implement this law as a whole. I'll invite her: Voices You agree with this law, it strengthens the Austrian labour market!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e20982	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21004	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! More and more people are making the sad experience: They're looking for Ar- bite without success! How can we achieve improvements? – To do this, we need more fairness in the labour market, more jobs and, as the Minister has said, a business-friendly climate. How do we achieve more fairness in the labour market? – There are the new rules today, there has already been a lot of implementation: Control and penalties where workers from abroad are not paid the same wage as Austrian workers. This should not, however, lead to shocks for clean-working plants. That's where we need a bureaucracy brake, because the bureaucracy is growing enough anyway. On the other hand, we want to do everything we can to combat unemployment. That's where I can remember: We have already decided today in the Financial Framework Act to re-enter the labour market, up to €150 million in employment aid alone for this year. More and more older people are affected by the fact that they are increasingly difficult to find a job again and should be helped with it. We also urgently need more efficiency in the labour market. What do I mean by that? – Mr Wöginger said: We need a system that creates incentives to work again and that there is also a difference between wages and social benefits. We also want to create incentives to continue working in the pension. We also discussed this very strongly in committee. If someone continues to work in the pension, he pays a pension contribution again. He therefore makes a payment which de facto does not have an adequate performance. ==References====External links== Proposals have already been drawn up on this subject and measures have been taken to reduce pension contributions from service providers and employees. This work and pension summit has also agreed on a reform of disability pension and rehab money. Why? – We want people to be able to get back into the labour market and get all possible help for it. High house! The world of work has changed dramatically, and we must look forward to that and therefore implement the reforms already agreed. From my point of view, the change at Ballhausplatz offers a great opportunity – the chance to take up more speed again. The new Federal Chancellor said he wanted to bring a new style into politics: less Hickhack, common good solutions. We're here. I'm looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21052	Mr Neubauer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21073	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I should like to speak on item 13 on the agenda and to make a request to the 13th and 14th. Remember the content. The basis for this was a survey carried out by the trade union of private workers, which found that a relatively high proportion of the workers in this survey indicated that the 13th and 14ths of workers were employed. The monthly salary for them is an essential part of the means of covering the costs of daily life that arise during the course of the year. There has been a discussion as to whether in Austria it is actually known to what extent the 13th and 14ths are known. salary is also legally guaranteed – which is what they are only It is a matter of fact. We do have collective agreements, which include a 13th and 14th. There are still more than 40 divisions in Austria alone, for example, in which there is no collective agreement. That is, even in these areas – and I have been wondering for years why it has not been possible to work out collective agreements in these areas too – is that 13th and 14th. In fact, it is not possible to ensure the content. That is why we have tabled the request, a 13th and 14th. To put salary on a basis that creates legal certainty in this regard, in order to prevent the efforts of those who, for example in economically difficult times – I remember 2008 or 2009 – from the economic side repeatedly demand for restriction or even abolition of the 13th and 14ths. (b) to make monthly payments. In this respect, I would like to ask you to adopt Agenda item 13 and to support our request for legal protection of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary for employees in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21113	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21134	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neubauer, we will not follow your request. That's going to be You probably don't surprise me, but I'm always wondering what happens to you to cause fear. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Are you opposed to employee rights or what?]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Who's scared now?]] You're afraid of migrants, you're afraid of refugees, you're afraid of crimes – that's what it's about security – and now it's 13th and 14th. Monthly salary, i.e. holiday money and Christmas money, is still there to make you afraid. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who's scared now?]] You're the terrifying party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Somehow this is strange and almost a bit ridiculous – but perhaps one by one: First of all, Mr Neubauer: Workers and employers, i.e. the social partners, have set up these special payments, entered into collective contracts, and no one needs to be afraid. We have strong trade unions, we have strong collective agreements, we have a collective contract coverage of more than 96 percent. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's what you've seen now! They came in like a guy! Where's the works council at the TV station?]] Mr Neubauer, you just have to take note of this! And if you ask the question why there are sectors that do not pay special payments today – that is very, very few, since you also have to talk about the number of employees when you talk about it – then you have to talk to your employer wing and ask why in some sectors these special payments cannot be made. Ladies and gentlemen. Collective contracts are often stronger than legal provisions. We have seen this in the crisis, for for example, if the Irish, Mr Neubauer, had strong collective agreements, then the minimum wages could not have been reduced by emergency regulations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We are the employee party, Mr. Cot! The workers are all with us! You've lost them for a long time, the workers!]] In Spain exactly the same, also in the Czech Republic: If the strong collective agreements had been concluded, they would not have been able to suspend the minimum wage increase for four years. [[Abg. Neubauer: Where was the union at simpliTV? Where was the union?]] That is why I believe that your proposal – and I would like to say this quite clearly here – would weaken the collective agreement and thus weaken the workers. I don't wonder at all, because you just voted in favour of halving the Chamber of Workers a few hours ago when NEOS applied for it. This request is also very clearly directed against workers, against their representation, and you understand that we will not go along with it. We are behind the workers, and they know that too. That is why we shall reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21258	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21279	Mr President. Minister! Imagine you're causing a parking damage when you park, you'll start a car when you're driving out of a parking gap. You see this, write a note for the owner of the car and attach it to the windscreen, and you give it or her in your number and tell it to: I'm sorry, it happened. I'll report the damage. – The owner or owner comes back sometime later, sees the paper, reads it, takes note, throws away the paper, goes to the police and makes an advertisement for driver flight. What does this have to do with the request that Mr Neubauer has just made? What do you think? History has to do with the fact that we had a voting margin in the Committee. My colleagues Birgit Schatz and Karl Öllinger round I have voted wrong. At the moment when I saw it and realized it, I spoke – for this, all my colleagues who were in the committee are my witnesses and will confirm it. And also colleague Belakovich-Jenewein meant: Oh, no problem, because I said: Oh, I'm sorry, we've had a voting margin, but of course we're going to vote in plenary – because we're never going to vote against the 13th and 14ths. On the contrary, on the contrary, in connection with the minimum statutory wage, we have several times also submitted applications for this. [[Abg. Neubauer: Did not claim anyone anyway!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: No one claimed!]] - Didn't anyone claim? What happened then: Yesterday, there was on “unscensored.at” – that is your medium, your communication platform, which is relatively diligent by FPÖler, shared by people from around you – a message – and this is then also displayed on the side of Mr President Hofer, which has appeared on the side of Mr Strache, as far as I know, in any case, it has drawn wide circles – and in this message read: "Green vote against legal guarantee of holiday and Christmas money. Certain Van der Bellens TTIP course the Greens’ vote against the guarantee of workers’ rights?’ [[Abg. New builder: This is an overparty!]] What's extraordinary? [[Abg. New builder: Ah, do you say he's...?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The "unscensored.at" page? Or what's over-party? I ask you: How does this message from the Committee come to the "unscensored.at" page, with a complete untruth? [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] And I'm asking you: What's that style? What's that bad style? What is this last-class policy style that we are doing here in Parliament? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Don't be so aggressive!]] Is it your style to make parliamentary politics? - God forbid, really! I would like to congratulate you on this! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This message, which is now cursing on the web, is increasingly and more, defying false messages. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: What is the name of the site? Where do you find that?]] And I'll tell you the points: It is said that it is a request from Mr Kickl – that is your request, Mr Neubauer, so it is not even the right one – and it is clearly claimed that the social speaker, Mr Kickl, knows that was clearly present in the committee. – He was not, and I have already seen social spokesperson Kickl very, very, very long not in the Committee on Social Affairs. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Where is he today?]] Where is he today when it comes to social issues? - It's weird. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] I think that this way of dealing with a mistake that we have come to believe – we have said that we will vote differently in plenary – is really an ugly style, and I ask you to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21445	Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21466	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! Point 7, the wage and social dumping law – a lot has already been said about it. There should simply be legal certainty and equal conditions for domestic and foreign companies working here with us, and the whole package will certainly improve with regard to the competitive situation with companies working across borders to Austria. On agenda item 10, the Greens' request: Mrs Schatz, you are asking for increased wage controls to be carried out in order to become master of wage and social dumping, and with this also a staff increase of the financial police. Because you have asked us, the ÖVP, to work with the Minister of Finance to increase the staff level so that there are more auditors, I really tell you from practice as an entrepreneur: Checkers have that state, this country has more than enough! [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the NEOS and the Agg. Dietrich.]] The question is: Where are they used? I don't know if it's a good idea for one-person companies with a turnover of 50 000, 100 000 or 150 000 € to go in and out of the auditors three times a year. You should check where real abuse is done! What, for example, is – because we are currently dealing with it – with the companies that work across borders and are interfering with our companies? This is where the auditors are to be removed from the small companies mentioned earlier and used as a priority in this area. We're quite clear about an increase. Control must be, that's not a question, but examiners we've got enough till then. [[the speaker makes a corresponding gesture]] The question is where they are put. They must be used where the greatest abuse – workers, employers – is being carried out. Then their use is also correct – and I think we don't need any more inspectors to do that. Otherwise, I believe that they should be used there, of course. Mr Federal Minister, at the end of the Committee meeting last week, we held a four-eye discussion on a subject that had been discussed for a long time, so that we could be implemented before the summer with regard to the voluntary assistance of the closest family members in the family business. [[Abg. Peter Worm: (demonstrative applause giving) After two years it will be time once! After two years!]] – I must say one thing, Mr. Collegue of the Freedom Party: I would not speak so loud in your place, because if we had accepted your request, we would start with this law from the beginning. The Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the political groups of SPÖ and ÖVP agree, and we have had all your support for this law or at least this leaflet as far as legal certainty for family businesses is concerned that, if there is a need for men, children, parents, grandparents can jump in, provided that they are either in education, in an ordinary employment relationship or in retirement. There are only two small things left – Mr Federal Minister, thank you for your support! – and we must give our businesses this legal certainty before the summer, because I believe that this is very important. And I say it here from this speaker's mouth: I will not go out of this House in my capacity before we have this legal certainty for businesses. [[Abg. Karlsböck: That's what the voters decide!]] Before the summer we will do this, Minister of State, I believe that we agree. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Is that a promise now? A promise? Guaranteed?]] - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21566	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21587	Mr. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Wöginger for the kind words he has found on our minimum security proposals. They should not have been put off in committee, then they would have been disputable now. On the wage and social dumping law: Yes, we need the fight against wage and social dumping, and yes, we need fair competition, but what you do with this law is: They stifle cross-border competition, European competition. The way you do this, I'll do it a little bit. Individual provisions may be quite okay if you toss them out, but it is about the overall picture, and this overall picture the German Chamber of Commerce in Austria summarizes: "Especially for SMEs, an increased consideration of the general preventive effect (...) results in orders no longer being accepted in Austria. In particular, for SMEs, compliance with the Austrian rules on postings is linked to a non-immaterial effort. Due to the overrun criminal framework (...), this could lead to the fact that no contracts are actually accepted in Austria. “ So this does not write the Slovak or Moldovan Chamber of Commerce, but the German. I would like to know a little about a part of Austria, which is sometimes out of focus here in Vienna, namely: From Upper Austria to the west, the federal states are bordering Germany, where cross-border competition takes place, which has nothing to do with dumping at all. This is also a question of whether the neighboring village, which lies beyond the border, has a service – quite contrary to collective contractual conditions – available. And that's what you're trying to do now. The result will be: One buys the services more expensive because fewer providers are on the market. What you have achieved is that now is not only the KV wage, but also the employees of comparable employers who are comparable in the workplace. - Aha! So how is a foreign employer supposed to know what is usually paid on the spot? As a foreign firm, he cannot even know exactly how to deal with collective agreements, because he does not get any information from the Chamber of Commerce, where he is not a member. The law also provides that the authority responsible for the control of wage and social dumping can, in case of doubt – and obviously, there are such doubts – obtain information from the Chamber of Commerce, how the employee would qualify, but the foreign employer cannot. They create great legal uncertainty, which, of course, is not voluntary. If you're actually making such a send: What does the company have to show at the site in Austria? – The contract of employment or service, wage notes, proof of pay, bank transfer notes, wage records, working time records, documents relating to wage classification. The employment contract may be in English, everything else must be in German. Now I wonder how a French company, a company from Denmark, a company from Italy should show German-speaking bank notes and German-speaking wages bills! They simply suspend cross-border trade and the provision of cross-border services. This is your goal: a decommissioning of the Austrian market. This is super embarrassing for what was once a European party. I'd be fine if I sat in the black rows. For the rather national social democrats, it's meaty, that's clear to me. And there it's meated anyway, that's clear to me. [[pointing towards FPÖ]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: (in the direction of SPÖ) “Nationally become Social Democrats” – have you registered this?]] And then you have to ask yourself: What happens if I commit a breach of administration? – Then I now have a doubled criminal framework, with yet persistent cumulation principle. The consequence is a ban on the service for the next one to five years. Then I come to an administrative penalty where I'm saved for five years. Access to this evidence has been done by health insurance companies – data protection, which is all grudging at once – and access to this database is also available to public employers. Such registrations can be considered a suspicion by the health insurance fund that there is a sham company – by the way, it can happen not only foreign, but also Austrian companies – and then you are as fast as companies from the company's book, so quickly you can't look at it! They have only minimal legal remedies against such business qualification. From the HFU list, you are then in zero comma nothing outside. Actually, you can lock if you have committed a small administrative breach. If I hear the word “debureaucratisation” from the ÖVP side, I will be really bad. You're running a law like that and you're talking about debureaucratisation?- Oh, my God! That's really inability on your side!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21650	I call Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21671	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although Amendments 1474/A(E) and 1439/A(E) are in the right direction, the Committee was not responsible for this. For this reason, the Constitutional Committee is also assigned to it, for the further development of procurement law and the strengthening and extension of the best bidder principle is to be referred to the competence of the Federal Chancellery; the Ministry of Social Affairs is not responsible for this. Once again on the requests: The Ms Schatz's request calls for ‘a timely and complete implementation of EU Directive 2014/24/EU’, with particular reference to the following aspects: The aim is to “enhance the areas in which the best bidder principle is applied and to develop the quality and social criteria for construction, supply and service contracts”. Much of what is required in this request has already been realized in the novelle to the Federal Procurement Act 2016, for example in the case of “spiritual services” the “supply to the technically and economically most affordable offer” is to be awarded – thus the cheapest offer principle is excluded here. The best-offering principle must also be applied if ‘this is performance which does not allow for prior global pricing by nature or because of the risks associated with the provision of services and therefore a negotiated procedure’. Another group in which the best-offering principle is to be applied concerns contracts which are also to be considered “future cost-effective factors [...]” as part of the offer assessment, such as service for IT services. The best offer principle also applies to certain other services, in particular construction contracts, whose estimated order value is at least € 1 million. Ladies and gentlemen, much of what is required here has already been implemented, which also leads to a substantial development of the right to award. The same is true of Mr Kickl's request. Many of the required points have already been implemented, starting with the'measures against'. ‘Sham companies’ means ‘improved sanctions in the event of a breach of minimum labour and social standards’, and to the fight against wage and social dumping. On the final point of the revision of the Law on the control of wage and social dumping, it should be noted that this claim, which Mr Kickl has, was already met in the November 2014 novel, and that it is a further call for a “shift of the focus of controls” to be said that these are within the scope of the competent control authorities and do not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In order to ensure the ‘voluntability of administrative penalties (...) also in the other EU Member States’, it should be noted that the implementation of the That directive is already contained in the wage and social dumping control law, which is adopted today. That is to say, the points remaining from these two applications will be dealt with after the assignment to the Constitutional Committee. I think there will be an agreement there.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21729	The next speaker is Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21751	Mr President. Minister! High house! Believers at home! First of all, Mr Stöger, I am glad that you are still a Social Minister; last week it looked a little different in the short term. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Keck: Is this meant honestly now?]] - That's what I mean. I always mean it when I stand here. I'm glad. Above all, I have to say: I would have been shocked if, after two and a half years in the National Council, I had already experienced the third Minister of Social Affairs. That's how I prefer continuity. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: The competence is great!]] – competence anyway! Mr Minister, last week we discussed three issues in great detail in the Committee: Unemployment, asylum seekers and minimum security. I am a little surprised that the ÖVP has made the issue of minimum security even today, although it has postponed all eight requests on the subject of minimum security, so that we cannot discuss them officially today. I also tried in committee to get an excuse from the other parties – the Greens except – which I did not succeed. I will not repeat this today because I believe that the excuse of these parties will unfortunately not come. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: The reason was not good!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] However, I would like to point out once again – this is important to me – that we have not raised this very subject complex – unemployment, asylum seekers and minimum security – until the 2015 crisis year, but have been addressing it for much longer, and I will also try to explain the links between these three points. Unemployment: We have already talked about this today; unfortunately, I do not think God can repeat it often enough. There is record unemployment in Austria, it increases month by month. Two things should be emphasized: In particular, we have extreme levels of increase, including long-term unemployed, in the area of over 50-year-olds. We also have in the area of less-qualified extreme levels of increase, and of course also in the field of foreigners. I would like to make one more brief point. Name value: Already 30 percent of all unemployed people in Austria do not have Austrian citizenship. Let us come to the next point, which for me is just directly related to that, namely to the asylum seekers. We have also tabled a proposal which is being discussed today. Her predecessor, Minister Hundstorfer, admittedly was very consistent. He has always opposed an extension of the work permit for asylum seekers. I would like to make a statement about this. I may explain briefly to the audience: In principle, we distinguish between asylum seekers and asylum seekers. Asylum seekers have the same access on the labour market as Austrians or EU foreigners – completely clear. However, the idea of giving asylum seekers a completely free access to the labour market is emerging again and again. If you have listened to that, you have heard the situation regarding unemployment and, above all, the difficult groups. That would be a horror scenario for me. For those who do not know, explain again briefly: As asylum seekers – Mr Loacker – we have often discussed it – after three months become independent – perfectly clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Self-employment is also open to asylum seekers. There are also eight teaching professions open to asylum seekers, and asylum seekers could also work in 25 disability professions. Unfortunately, the reality – and we have been pointing out for years – is that these 500 000 asylum seekers, who have come over the past 15 years, are largely less qualified. 50 percent do not even have a school degree, and these announced doctors and other specialists can be found in the Promille area. This has a direct impact on the labour market – so far to the area of asylum seekers. Let's go to minimum security: This is also a point that is simply fundamental. I would have liked to have an excuse, too. In the meantime you can also read it in the official media, we have known it for years: There are these very official statements from the Social Office, during which someone gets 3 000 €, 4000 €, 5 000 €, 6 000 €, 7 000 € per month, and that shakes the population. We have been pointing out for years that we are finally doing something about this. Slowly, the ÖVP comes into the corridor with the lid of 1 500 €. But here I don't see any distractions at all, and I'm allowed to repeat again: [[towards SPÖ]] We have over 300 000 minimum insurance beneficiaries in Austria. I say it again: over 300 000. This is just one of the 500 000 unemployed people, and you know what we are talking about here. [[Abg. Loacker: That's not true!]] I am also saying this – we know this from requests – that I have bombarded your predecessor every quarter: In Tyrol, just under 50 percent of the minimum insurance beneficiaries are not Austrian citizens, and the trend continues to rise strongly. Before I make a long statement on the subject of minimum security, I would like to present a case to you today; I have also put it in committee. The young lady has allowed me to present this also here. This is a woman from Götzens in Tyrol, and I have to explain this case briefly. Mrs. Jenewein also knows – as all Austrians know – that everyone who comes to Austria will receive minimum security as soon as he has an asylum notice, and she has personally experienced the following: This lady has matured at the HTL for construction and design in Innsbruck. After the Matura she worked as a graphic artist for two and a half years. Then she decided to do another teaching, and started the bookbinder's teaching, which she currently holds with award in vocational school and in which she is also on the road to international competitions – a parade that we are always talking about here in Parliament. Mrs. Jenewein's problem is: She is now 23 years old, will be in June 24. As soon as it is 24, the family allowance shall be deleted. Apprenticeship compensation is €420 net. [[Abg. Loacker: She now completes the teaching?]] Mrs. Jenewein cannot, of course, challenge her livelihood at the age of 24. Mrs Jenewein was advised to apply for minimum security. Now I will read to you the notice from the Social Office in Innsbruck: "Women Jenewein is therefore obliged to strive for a job from which she can himself dispute her livelihood and/or for which she is entitled. it is also not inadequable to take up a job with which an immediate source of income is available for the purpose of combating living.’ This is told by an Austrian who did Matura, worked for two and a half years, and is now teaching. And I'll tell you something: Mrs. Jenewein was certainly not a FPÖ elector, but as far as these cases are concerned, which you do not place here and which you do not want to see for years: [[Abg. Loacker:... every student gets minimum security!]] More and more Austrians are coming to the point that they are being carried around at the nose. These are cases that can be proved. You can't explain this to a reasonable person in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21877	I call Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e21908	As Mr Loacker just said: There would be a lot to replicate, but I don't have so much time to speak. But, Mr. Worm, your view is a bit strange: There are references to minimum social security as social security, and on the other hand, you do not touch a finger when it comes to parking billions of offshore accounts in the Caribbean at the Finance Minister. I really can't stand this discussion anymore! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: If we are chancellors, we will change that!]] But I will take another request from Mr Kickl, who today shines almost all day away, who has called on the Minister of Social Affairs Stöger to ensure that the labour market for asylum seekers in Austria continues to be closed. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: What do you say about this case? What do you say to the lady?]] – If you have something to say, come back to the speaker’s desk again! However, the applicant Kickl is likely to miss the fact that asylum seekers are not at all excluded from access to the labour market. [[Abg. Schimanek: Where is the Lord of Dispensers?]] The fact is, and you always forget to say this, that, according to the law, these people can very well receive employment permits from three months after admission to the asylum procedure after precise labour market examination and with the unanimous agreement of the Regional Advisory Council. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Did you not listen? I said that!]] This is not new either, as you always do, because in 2004, when you were still in the government, then Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein - exactly - has issued a decree that allows for a very limited period of seasonal employment in tourism or agriculture. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Bartenstein decree!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Bartenstein decree!]] In addition, for four years – and I think this is perfectly correct – there has been a call for labour market service, a call for youth asylum seekers to provide employment permits for those apprenticeships where there is a regional and a national apprenticeship shortage. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Eight teaching occupations!]] This is nothing bad in itself, and nothing should be changed in this status quo, even in the foreseeable future, why your constant fear is really going on the alarm clock – because you are doing nothing else than to keep the population in a constant state of uncertainty. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That was the question!]] [[Onion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] And I support this with facts to show your hateful nature. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In your request, which Mr Kickl has made, you have been joining all asylum seekers since 1999 and are telling the Austrians that Austria is flooded by asylum seekers, because you indicate: 337,000 asylum seekers are in Austria. [[Abg. They're here! They didn't break up in the air!]] [[Intervocations by Deimek and Peter Wurm.]] They know quite well that these figures are more than absurd, because most of those asylum seekers who have sought asylum over the last 16 years have either been recognized as refugees and have access to the labour market anyway, or their asylum applications have been rejected and they have not been in Austria for a long time. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Fact is – hear now Once you're closed, Mr. Worm, before you constant in between! – that by the end of March of this year only 277 asylum seekers have a genuine employment permit. Among these 277 were 157 asylum seekers under the age of 25 with a genuine apprenticeship permit. Mr Wimmer has already put it to the point: They are not about facts, but they are always about to startle fears and spread panic. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Strengthen my facts!]] The way you show it is more than dirty. I'd rather keep it with the new Federal Chancellor Core, who said yesterday: We should feed hope, not fears and worries.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22121	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22143	Ladies and gentlemen! This is a bit of a strange feeling when, after a few years of interruption, one is back at the speaker's desk, but it is actually doing quite well, also the distance to what is being discussed here in the house or in the committee – I have also explained this in the Committee on Social Affairs. My advantage is that I have been able and able to observe the debates on social issues for a very long time. Therefore, I can still remember the time when here – and that was in the nineties, I did not now look into when exactly – a request from SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens, and I think the LIF was also in it, against black entrepreneurship was decided. At the time, the ÖVP was not involved in this request. This request has been found by a majority, and he has been such a driving force for developments – the colleague nods, for she also knows – as a driving force for combating black work. I am therefore pleased that today, even though some years have passed since now, there is another step in the wage and social dumping law. Of course, I wonder why, in contrast to 1995 or 1999, I no longer know exactly which of these two ends of the legislative periods it was – the Freedom Party is not present. It doesn't really surprise me either. I am telling you why Mr Hofer will know. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Was that a rhetorical question?]] Now, of course, you can say: It may be the title of the law: LSD-BG. [[Cheerfulness with Greens and SPÖ.]] You do not need to be afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! It has nothing to do with intoxication, but it is a wage and social dumping law. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It might also be that you feel irritated because you think: Then it is no longer as easy to print posters for Mr Hofer in the Republika Srpska. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] I can tell you: You may continue to print the posters. Whether you want to be politically responsible for having your posters printed for Mr Hofer in the Republic of Srpska under the slogan “Austria first” and so on, is your case. That's the second. But the third is – and then Mr Hofer himself is really responsible – the resolution of the question why you are voting against the wage and social dumping law: This is set out in the Handbook on Freedom of Practice. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You didn't listen, Mr. Oillinger!]] - Oh, yeah! I have read the “Handbook of Freedom of Policy” carefully. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lausch and Mr Deimek.]] The resolution is in there. Mr Hofer, who is responsible for this manual, says in the manual: Elimination of unemployment insurance for all foreign employees – this is point one. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... very weak!]] Point two is that he says: own social security for all Foreigners – thus beyond the removal of unemployment insurance. Now I am asking all of them, even some reasonably talented economics, who are interested in economics and who are modest in economics: What does this mean when I delete unemployment insurance if I make my own social security, which of course should be more cost-effective, with which you can reduce contributions to pension insurance? What does this mean when a particular group of workers on the labour market becomes cheaper than domestic workers? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Dumping!]] – Wage and social dumping is that, wage and social dumping at a very bad level! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] The story goes on. If I do so, then of course I also force Austrian workers to be more or less opposed to certain social and collective agreements, we say once, that they have disheartened and will say: We can't do that, so we can't work. We don't get jobs, because the seasonals that send us the Freedom Party into the country will take away the jobs. But now there is still a special regulation of this ‘Legal Freedom Policy’: If the person or the foreign worker becomes unemployed, he or she flees from the country, then there is no unemployment insurance; that is the meaning of the abolition of unemployment insurance. What, then, will every foreign worker, every migrant working here in the country, try? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Work on every condition!]] – Work at all costs! That is the system, the model that the liberals practice, and therefore they are against the wage and social dumping law. So it looks like, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, with your slogan, that Austrians come first!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22291	I call Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22312	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! I would like briefly to refer to Mr 1566/A's motion for a resolution. Enter treasure which calls for the staff increase of the financial police, for the provision of resources for cooperation with tax and tax authorities abroad, or for the recording of the advertising ratio in wage and social dumping, and for the purpose of imposing fines. Some points to this: We have already decided in 2015 that we will have 500 additional posts at the financial police. A further increase in the posts of the financial police is the execution of the Minister of Finance, and we have specified sufficient coverage in § 69 of the Wage and Social dumping Fighting Act. That is why the allocation to the Financial Committee is also made. The recording of the ad rate is possible based on current statistics, and these statistics show that over the period 1st. ==References== March 2016 937 criminal cases have become legal. I would like to refer to § 15 of the Administrative Criminal Law, in which it is precisely defined that the fines imposed on the wage and social dumping control law in principle benefit countries for the purpose of social assistance. If I have the period 1st. ==References== In March 2016, we can find that for this purpose, €6.3 million of social assistance has been granted to the countries. Agenda item 7 stresses the need to strengthen the law on wage and social dumping. That has already been carried out sufficiently, but I always note that the Freedom Party, which is a representative of justice, on the one hand, rejects this wage and social dumping law with the changes as too little sharp and on the other hand states, on the other hand, that it is actually too sharp that companies go abroad. This is a turnaround that is not easy to see. For us, ladies and gentlemen, and for social democracy it is clear: Wage and social dumping should not and should not be a worthwhile business. Wage and social dumping should be effectively combated, ensuring fair pay for all workers and ensuring fair competition for the domestic economy. That is why we are in favour of these measures, even if they are sometimes very difficult to implement. I do not understand the FPÖ at all, because if there were no such wage and social dumping law, then there would also be no such measures to ensure there is fair competition.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22357	The next speaker is Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22379	Mr President. Minister! On the opening of the labour market for asylum seekers: According to a misevaluation by the Federal Government, the addition of foreign and asyl-seeking persons on the domestic labour market was an enrichment. However, reality requires sober, objective assessment. Factum is a steadily rising, increasing number of Home unemployed people, who have reached the highest level and are also facing a high level of employment. However, the economic situation of Austria must be described as stagnant. Asylum is not a right to long-term. Persons with asylum status enjoy the legal right of analog Austrian citizens, so that the question of opening up the labour market only applies to asylum seekers. If and is argued on by the Federal Government and the Greens a high degree of education of asyl-competent persons, which would be necessary for the Austrian economy, then the opposite becomes apparent. Training failures in relation to the level of training of local workers and linguistic problems require several years of alignment, starting from about seven to eight years. The financial effort of the taxpayer must be taken into account for both asylum seekers and asylum-seekers. It is undisputed that employment is a favourable influence on the integration of foreigners, but a working relationship in the private sector is hardly possible under these conditions. It is expected that after the winter months, the number of asyl-competent persons will increase again, so that the problem will be solved nationally in Austria in the short term. The Federal Government's supreme command is to be security, and this also includes ensuring jobs for the Austrian population. The policy of open borders and free access to the labour market for asylum seekers should be clearly rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22424	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22445	Appreciate High House! I would like to refer to the item on the agenda 12 which has not been dealt with by the applicants so far. It's about the cash crash in the AMS, which we'll of course reject. The background is that you can't demand red tape on the one hand and the abolition of bureaucracy and then ask for something there is. The figures for the AMS are available, which can be obtained from the Budget Committee. So if you're interested, then there are those numbers. The intention of this application is understandable. The question arises, of course, in the case of rising numbers of unemployed, despite higher budgets: How do we use this tight budget, which the AMS has available, targeted and correctly? . That is why, and we have discussed this in committee, we can get something from a request from the liberals that concerns the reintroduction of the professional scholarship. We had a very interesting discussion in committee, and I am not entirely of the opinion of Mr Loacker. Of course, you are perfectly right in one point, namely that people who already have a certain level of education tend to take up more training. We also note it in companies; when it comes to educational budgets in companies, especially those colleagues who already have training are mostly those who make additional training. Those who have little training hardly make use of these trainings. Your argument is so to speak, that these scholarships only bring something to those people who have a degree, and precisely these are the ones that use these scholarships. My experience, especially as regards foundations, is quite different. From my point of view, foundations often have the aspect that people in young years opt for vocational training, mostly with 15, some with 18, and then sometime during their professional life, so between 30 and 40, that they have learned something exciting that they fill up in part, but there are other interests in their professional life that they want to realize. There are these professional scholarships, these foundation models a great way to reorient themselves professionally. It is usually not people who have studied before, but according to my experience, the people who have completed vocational training, for example, are often technical training, and then they learn a social profession. To support this, to accompany these people practically, we find that important. That is why we have postponed the request of the liberals, as we say: This is a good proposal that we would like to examine more closely. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We're ready, Markus!]] I hope that we can also make available funds to offer this scholarship again in the future. That is why we are involved in the subject of reorientation in the profession, but we do not see the need for a cassation collapse. Of course, we need a constant discussion of how we use the funds in the AMS.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22485	I call Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22506	Mr President. Minister! Mr Oellinger, the staff cover of the Greens must already be very thin if you are to bring you back to Parliament after years. I can give you the following tip: They should arrive as quickly as possible in 2016 from the nineties, because today people have problems, and no one else is interested in the nineties, Mr. Oellinger. I wanted to give it to you. Mr Oellinger, you have in no way replicated on figures, data, facts. You only told old stories from the nineties. They won't help the population in Austria in 2016, Mr. Ollinger! [[Abg. Walser: Go to arguments!]] Although it is a delicate attempt by you to discover perhaps the needs of employees in Austria, when it comes to workers, I have not discovered this in the last two and a half years with your colleagues from the Greens. [[Abg. Krainer: But this is up to you and not to the Greens!]] The employees in Austria, not only the Austrians – to your astonishment, Mr. Ollinger – also the neo-Austrian and even the non-Austrian, all working people in Austria now know who is looking at them and their problems, and that is the Freedom Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22557	I call Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22579	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker on the point of wage and social dumping control law, I may add a few points. Competition in the economy is held on the back of employees in many areas. Wages are being pressed, social standards are bypassed in many areas, the pressure on domestic workers and businesses due to unfair competition from abroad is unbroken. We have already heard the number: 133 000 workers are sent to Austria, which is 26 percent more than in 2014. This law is intended to ensure that workers posted by their companies to Austria must be paid at least as much as Austrian employees. The rules currently distributed through several laws are summarised in this law. Many measures to combat wage and social dumping also affect companies and businesses. There is a better chance of competition for Austrian companies, and therefore I do not quite understand, Mr Loacker, if you think it is a disadvantage for our companies if there is no competition with foreign companies. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address an area which has not yet been addressed in this context. It is about employees in the transport sector. There is a situation where foreign rulers are usually employed with low wage levels in Eastern European countries, and if they come to Austria, there are often no reasonable wages paid. We now have the opportunity – except in transit through Austria – to apply this law better. It has already been mentioned today: We need strict, comprehensive controls with sanctions to prevent this social dumping. In the railway sector too, there is currently an unfair competition, many drivers and train attendants of foreign companies are on the road on our low-paid networks; in the future this sanction is also valid. In principle, I would like to say once again that we must not only look at the price in the case of calls for transport services, but also pay attention to social criteria; otherwise, the employees usually stay on the track. In many cases, in addition to training and safety, we do not want to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22624	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law, which amends a law to combat wage and social dumping and the labour contract law adaptation law, the labour law and other laws, including title and receipt in 1111 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – The draft law is largely adopted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft is largely adopted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1134 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I accept the motion for a resolution 1439/A(E) to the Constitutional Committee. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1135 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1136 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. I accept the proposal 1566/A(E) to the Financial Committee. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1137 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I accept Amendment No 1474/A(E) to the Constitutional Committee. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1138 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1139 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. [[20:17:49]] 14. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (1061, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Wine Law 2009 (1116, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22798	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Schellhorn has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22826	Mr President. Estimated Minister! The speakers after me will also praise the Uhudler, in so far It is quite remarkable how many minutes we use for this when it comes to the topic of Uhudler. I believe that at 50 acres of cultivation, every litre here in Parliament has earned a minute, so to speak, and it is quite curious to think about the radiation of the Uhudlers. Mr Preiner will still talk about it, Mr Doppler is unfortunately not here, but otherwise everyone will be gathered to explain the importance of the Uhudler. The same could be said, of course, when it comes to strawberry wine or Ribisel wine, as you want to continue a rebellion again, but it will not play. In this sense, however, it should also be noted: The whole story still has a close corset. The success story of the wine in general has taken its origin at the wine scandal 30 years ago. In this respect, we must also say that a great deal has been done. The total export of Austrian wine is now €150 million. This is quite a success story, which shows how to export something professional, specialized in a fine product and thus mutate to the fine food shop Austria. In addition, however, it must be welcomed that politics took the right steps at the time. We must also consider the need to live and live with climate change and climate change in this respect. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Farmers and wine farmers must also live with it. Therefore, it is remarkable that top winners have succeeded, for example, in 2001 the Syrah has been grown, even though he has not yet been approved. These are anecdotes today, and to this day there are some vineyards that are not officially available; so this is very remarkable. What these companies and the winegrowers did at the time is that they demonstrated innovation and courage. I think it would be a good thing if one were to loosen the corset a little if one supported these courageous entrepreneurs in so far and did not stop in their cultivation. Further clear expansions, growing areas and also grape varieties will have to be found that will better withstand our climate and, accordingly, will be able to rise. That is why I expect a certain courage from the agricultural policy, namely the courage shown by the winegrowers at the time, and not only the courage to preserve the tradition of the Uhudler, but also the courage to allow new ones. This would simply be a good step towards securing Austrian winemaking. With all the love for this Uhudler – it's all quite nice and beautiful – but also in a different way we giant with wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22877	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Schmijsschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22898	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Wine from Austria is probably stronger than any other product associated with the identity of our country, but also with the culture of our country. This shows, I think, the seriousness of the discussion, when it comes to the framework conditions of the wine law, when the decision-makers of this House are seriously concerned, because we are not regulating the private consumption of the individual, but rather the production potential and the framework conditions for the wine industry in Austria. It is already a special award if such a small group as the wine industry in Austria is of such importance; and this also shows the important position of Austrian wine. In the present draft of the Wine Act, we are the first point to essentially regulate the production potential over the crop quotas, which are transferred into so-called qualified authorisations, in quotas, after which we can replant 1 percent of the total area of Austria in the future. That means that it is a manageable potential, but it leaves where it is necessary to grow as well. For the consumer, a scheme is established that the wine labels with the additional note of the Riede also specify the origin to the smallest detail and is clearly apparent. This is an essential point, because it is a success-guarantor of Austrian wine that I recognize on the product where it is from where it was produced. With this law, we can also best promote the smallest unity. The third point – and I am particularly pleased about this – is that the Austrian sect industry could also agree that we have developed a sect pyramid that we can also implement in a regulation that follows this law. With this we lead the Austrian sect closer to its origin, it can ignite on the label and adapt the production standards accordingly, because this quality product also belongs positioned accordingly. This is really an example of the expert opinion and the involvement of stakeholders in creating a high-quality bill. This means that legislation can show that it creates framework conditions for an entire industry, so that one can continue on a successful path. However, I find it rather worrying that there are signals from the other agricultural markets, where unfortunately we do not have this unity so often, and where farms also have to fight very, very strongly for recognition by the political representatives of the various groups. It is precisely there that we have to come to an overall arrangement, because it does not help us if we are on the road as a single fighter, whether it is a chamber, whether it is a farmer's association, whether it is the biospart, whether it is the topics such as TTIP, the export or the question of the Brussels framework conditions. We need to step up our action here, and we also need to recognise that we can intervene in the markets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Absolutely right! Wherever it goes!]] Agriculture and forestry are not to be supplied to the free market economy in full. We see that there has been a lot of stuttering in the gearbox of trade in agricultural products in Austria. We must intervene in the gears in order to find appropriate measures, because cheap prices are a value-added destruction for all of Austria. We need to intervene, and we need to implement an agricultural package relatively quickly in order to support the farms that are at great risk. A number of things have already been presented by the Minister. In this House, we must ensure that we gain at the pace, because we see very clearly the following: Agriculture is a delicate economic organism, and if we do not intervene accordingly, just as we did in wine, then we will destroy value added for Austria. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right...!]] We see this right now: The entire economic damage that we have through the frost in much of Austria cannot yet be estimated. The damage to agriculture is enormous, and the consequences will not be seen until the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22958	The next speaker is Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e22980	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker put a bottle of Uhudler on the speaker's desk.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] I would also like to welcome visitors from Burgenland to the Plenarsaal and welcome them! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's novelle of the national wine law allows us to speak of a good day for the winegrowers, but above all for the Uhudler farmers in the South of Burgenland. This day is unfortunately saddened by the frost disaster in the second half of the month of April. There have been many damage to agricultural crops that endanger the existence of many farmers – damage in the area of fruit, vegetable and wine-growing. I would just like to remind you that this is not a small area. In Austria we have wine growing areas of about 40 000 hectares, in the Burgenland 10 500 hectares, in the fruit-growing area we have a fruit-growing area of about 12,000 hectares and in the Burgenland of almost 800 hectares. It is clear that the frost endangers the existence of many farmers, whether they are active in the main or secondary acquisition. In the wine-growing areas, the frost has grown about 80 percent of the harvest, and in the fruit-growing areas, there has been almost a total loss. It is clear that these farmers need to be helped. I therefore also called on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to hold a recent meeting on the subject of frost damage last week. That was voted by all the political groups. Unfortunately, the NEOS did not go along with the corresponding vote on the motion for a resolution. Whoever helps quickly helps twice. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an empty saying. However, one must also remember that one should act thoughtfully and aimfully, but not take prompt action, because then the aid usually does not lead to the desired success, Mr Minister. We have already agreed today at the second reading of the amendment to the Civil Fund Act that there should be appropriate support measures for affected farmers. I have already asked the Minister of Agriculture – and this has been voted unanimously – to approve the EU Solidarity Fund's funding. I am also pleased that further damage is done by experts from the Chamber of Agriculture, but also by hail insurance. Especially in the wine sector, clear estimates of damage can be carried out by the end of May at the beginning of June. A task force has been set up and is already working. It is also about the fact that farmers who are not insured are to be paid one-off compensation payments due to the one-time freeze damage in April of this year. In total, 50 million € are available for these compensation payments on the part of the federal government, and I am convinced that all federal states will also contribute the 25 percent of their share. As far as the federal state of Burgenland is concerned, I can rightly say that this will certainly be the case. There is still a problem, namely the harvest loss in the coming year 2017. This should also be focused on. The less-favoured incomes caused by frost damage mainly concern farmers in less-favoured regions. Therefore, it is above all a question of putting countermeasures into place in order to ensure jobs and also to maintain value added in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, the new wine law, which we will adopt today, bears the SPÖ's manuscript permanently. I can only address a few points: For example, the maximum yield was set at 10,000 kilograms per hectare. This is important because it also sets a corresponding sign for the further high quality in winemaking. We know that since 1985 we have had high-quality wines and have also been successful in the international wine markets. It is also important to me that you should read and read for later. A corresponding test number may be applied for by January of the following year. It has also been said that a new regulation states that the term outbreak is no longer in use, but only the term Ruster outbreak. I would also like to say that as a Burgenländer. The new wine law also states that the Uhudler grapes belonging to the Vitis vinifera are now also included in the fruit wine category. These grapes can also be officially placed on the market. It was the country councillor of the Burgenland, Verena Dunst, who brought the nine Uhudler reb varieties to the classic wine track. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention and would like to remind all of us that in March last year we decided unanimously on a motion for a resolution addressed to the Minister for Agriculture to do everything to ensure that the Uhudler is guaranteed beyond 2030. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I hope you have taken action accordingly, Minister. Despite the challenging year 2016, I wish farmers – no matter what production segment – a good year of work. [[Call the FPÖ:Is there a corkscrew?! Now we're drinking a red one!]] – Mr Commissioner, you can get out as soon as I'm done. I thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23056	The next speaker was Mr Riemer. I ask the Minister not to drink the bottle. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Please, Mr Riemer.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23090	Mr President. Federal Minister! As always, this wine law is a very strict, a very good one and is also fair to it. I would like to point out to Mr Schellhorn that he was right: This wine scandal has all brought us – and especially us in the South Styria market – because you really have to talk about what people said at the time that you can't sell and produce wine anymore, say that that's not true. The South Styrian wine has also been able to establish itself well. I have to say at all that Austrian winemaking or producers stand for a success story and enjoy world reputation. You should be very proud of this. However, this does not only live in the wine sector, the wine industry, but also a lot of different industries, to which I finally come to speak. This is what the tourism industry is living on, and the real estate prices have, of course, increased in these regions, and they have increased in value. The main changes in the wine law have already been addressed, but the objective is also important. It is a question of improving the marketing of products. protected designations of origin by wine-growing area, large areas, municipalities and Rieden, or for example, because we have already heard it – the Burgenländer seem to have a big appearance today – to name the Ruster outbreak for predicate wines from rest or just for the transfer of the “Uhudler wine” – under quotation marks – as a direct rebbe from the wine area to the fruit wine area. I would also like to say one more word to Mr Schellhorn, as he has been smiling about the Uhudler: A good Earl Grey drinker doesn't complain, for example, when someone drinks camomile tea. This is no contradiction as such. Everything has its authority, and so it should be. I think it's also very good that it comes to clarification. In the future, the list of vines is to be guided not by the Bundeskelrei inspection, but by the national office responsible for catastrophe management, on the basis and taking into account – that is important – the content requirements of the Integrated Administrative and Control System, Invekos. We have also heard that this new system will increase from 9,000 litres to 10,000 litres per hectare. Of course, small conspicuousness has also been noted. I was not quite clear why you used to take 15 grams of unfermented sugar per litre and now 18 grams of unfermented sugar; that is a relief – so I would see it. Quality wine may be placed on the market under the name of cabinet or cabinet wine if the present alcoholic strength – formerly 13 % volume – is 12.9 % volume. This has become a bit stricter, but on the other hand, you also need to know that Cabinet wine should be a mature but not overly heavy wine. What things have not been discussed yet? – Of course, it is the dry berries harvest with at least 30 degrees Klosterneuburger Mostwaage and the concept of outbreak expressly for predicate wines from rest – yes, a good brand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] There's another point that might be surprising: ==References====External links== Japan, other predicate wines not before the 1st century. April of the year following the harvest to obtain the state test number. ==References====External links== May. This is not quite clear to me, but perhaps one has taken into account the desire of certain farmers and wine distributions. That wasn't quite clear to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner.]] The quality of sparkling wine and cult production has been mentioned – that is, I think, a good story – and of course also the designation of origin, so that one can understand this very clearly. One point on this designation of origin has of course already been in my mind – my colleague will perhaps be able to explain it to me afterwards – namely: The wine-growing area Southeast Styria is renamed Vulkanland Styria. This has, of course, amazed me, the volcanic country is the southeast Styria with certain parts, which is a protected brand that also reaches the district of Leibnitz. Why, because of the wine, the whole volcanic country is so named, although it is protected, it was not to be researched and questioned for me. We have already discussed the increase in the volume limit of 9 000 kilograms, 6 750 litres, to 10,000 kilograms. Yeah, that's a good story. On the one hand, in the South Styria, it is rather rare that you could produce so many litres, on the other hand, you also have to say that if three such crops were, the wine price in the South Styria would fall considerably. The approval system for vines with this 1% has been addressed. I was very interested in that, and I couldn't explain something to myself. There it says: ‘If, in a given year, the total area underlying the applications exceeds 1% of the area actually planted with vines, authorisations shall be issued according to priority criteria.’ I would have liked to know about these priority criteria whether there is also a chance in the game. Some bad wine growers – not me – have said that in the chambers are always the certain lobbys that can be judged then. I think that's a total mistake, of course, but I'll give it to you. The Uhudler Regulation, § 35 para. 2, has been discussed. If one swings loud such praises over the Austrian wine, the South Styrian wine – today we have already heard that, that has been said so simply – then I would like to repeat it once again, since I come from the South Styria and many of these disasters are not aware of it. Colleagues Auer said a beautiful word today: It's a super-GAU. It's not a climatic thing you might experience every two or three years. The last time something like this happened was in 1912, and not nearly as bad as now. Frost, snow, then comes something that many have forgotten: [[Calls for Greens]] After that were hot days, that's very bad! Some lands were then hit by hail, and of course there was said: The hail didn't matter then, because everything was broken anyway. Perhaps only to understand the small South Styria – with respect for the puddles in the East Styria with their fruit plantations, which, I believe, produce 7 kilos of apples per Austrian – so that you can understand the order of magnitude: The Styria has suffered total damage to 4,500 acres of vineyards, that is, 90 percent, or 4,000 acres! And if you hear again and again, of the drives can become something: Please, which professionals say that there can be something else from a drive this year? – That’s not the case! The next point, of course, is that one region which is structurally weak loses most of its value added. It is not just about this loss of harvest, it is also about the many jobs. It's about trade in agricultural machinery. Staff are already being released, because who is to sell something? The whole tourism suffers. The work in the vineyard – please, now also the special one – needs to be continued. There are the farmers who are grape producers and, of course, wine producers. But there are the many, countless grape producers! The grape producers have seen with a lot of heart blood and with a lot of money that something comes about – they have nothing now! They don't have tanks as a reserve in the cellars, they don't have anything at all, so nothing next year or next year. However, you must continue to do the same work: Injection, Mulchen, the whole ostriches, everything that's necessary here. So you're double and triple affected. I also think that this package of measures is of course a good thing, but with €100 million weitem will not take place. Allow me perhaps the following final rate – that was what many wine growers told me, not to play one side against the other –: How many millions have been possible for integrative measures for refugees immediately! And now let's leave you in the rain? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23214	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23235	Mr National Council President! Mr. Minister of Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I have already talked about the damage to wine and agriculture as a whole, the compassion, support and, above all, the necessary action in the field of climate protection in order to avoid this in the future at an earlier item on the agenda. The Uhudler was also affected. Now it is about the wine law, in the wine law it is about the so-called fruit wine solution, and on this solution we come to the Uhudler question. The Uhudler isn't just some wine there's somewhere. The Uhudler is an ecological product, and it is above all a very important product for the Southern Burgenland, for tourism in the South of Burgenland, for the economy in the South of Burgenland. An entire region almost connects its identity with this wine. It is not only known in the area, because not only the wine, but also the region is connected and marketed with this product via the southern Burgenland. We've discussed him more often here in the house. We had several requests, one petition. I initiated a tasting. I think everything I've received so much feedback that the Uhudler, perhaps except a few exceptions, has now arrived well here in the house. I think you got a bottle of bottle from me a year ago. Unfortunately, I don't have one with me today. The Uhudler is so popular that my supplies went out of here, but I'm going to take care of resuscitation. In any case, it is about the fact that this Uhudler is also permanently secured and remains in the South of Burgenland. There have now been different solutions. We have already heard from Mr Preiner that vine varieties have been included in the Burgenische Weinbauverordnung and therefore the Uhudler is thus also insured. There is now also this so-called fruit wine regime. We were still a little critical in the committee. Convinced, I honestly say, I am not yet today. [[Abg. Auer: But to 99 percent!]] We will, however, agree. It is unclear that in the law there are still some kind of formulations inside, where one can question whether they are in order under EU law. What is still open to me is the question: What about Burgenland solutions? So what does this mean for farmers when they plant grape varieties that fall into both? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: It is a wine...!]] This is also my criticism of the procedure. I made a request over a year ago, asking you to work together at all levels, namely: What can be done at national level? What can you do at federal level? What use is necessary at EU level? We have not seen this cooperation in what has come about, if we are honest now. There is the red solution in the Burgenland and the black solution in the waistband. It's kind of a back-and-back-up. To be honest, I would have expected that at least the Uhudler could stop party politics and we could come to a common solution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As I said, we agree today. However, I still expect commitment at EU level to ensure that the Uhudler is truly secure. I can promise the Southburgerland that we will stay there and continue to pursue it. Anyway, I'm glad that the Uhudler is now insured. To keep it that way permanently, let's still look at it. Next time, I'll take a bottle with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23294	Mr Steinbichler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23338	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I can also warmly welcome the spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Of course, we all agree with what has now been said by the previous speakers on the problem of Uhudler, appreciation, compassion, recognition, especially for the damaged wine and fruit farmers. This has already been discussed several times, including earlier in the disaster plan. I think that in some cases the level of distress really lacks, when you have seen how these fruit plants in the Styria have been destroyed with a blow after years of efforts by snow pressure, years of construction work was destroyed shortly before the beginning of the harvest years. You can't help enough. I can, in turn, mention Obmann's autumn, who is in great concern that the boys throw the towel there and, even if this quick help comes, are not ready to continue in the long term and permanently. I am of course allowed to give this wonderful wine, mentioned, as an example since this wine scandal, and I am very concerned. I said this in this house last time. If I look at the current wine prices and see how the supermarkets are dragging again, not only with domestic quality, but also with various international quantities, then one must be clear to us: It won't take long, then there's this gnat back there over the non-cost cover. I can fully understand your concern. You said we have these problems in all production sectors. That is why President Schultes comes to this honor, as a wonderful photo was presented in the Upper Austrian daily media when you visited the Chamber in Upper Austria with the new action “Look where it comes from”. [[significant to photography]] I already took your announcement at the “Green Week” in Berlin very seriously when you said you wanted a mandatory label in the big kitchens, in the hotel industry, in the gastronomy, because we are of course also guilty of this to our guests. They all expect – not only the local guests, but also especially those who come to us in our beautiful, strange, wonderful country on holiday – that they will of course also be presented at lunch buffet, in the afternoon, in the evening, at which Jause presents the local specialities and the local products, whether in liquid form with the wine and juice specialities or of course also on the plate with the flour dishes and the meat dishes. That is why we want to come back to this point at the moment, including this wine law, where there are quite reasonable changes in it, for example the increase in hectares. revenue from 9 000 to 10 000, which also confirms that quantity arrangements are necessary. The abolition in the dairy sector was incomprehensible, and we will discuss this crisis at the next point. That is why it has confirmed itself here, and thank God this has been retained, because it is also important for comprehensible, proper marking. I am glad when one is so far away from wine that one can even describe the Riede where the wine was harvested. But other products are thought to offer all of this to globalisation. That is why I should like to put another motion for a resolution on this point. I hope today for approval, and I will bring it in until it is really approved. I hope that from tomorrow, with the new government, with a new manager at the head of this Austrian company, we will also quickly end these endless discussions and actually implement the necessary measures, reforms – promised reforms, of course, Mr. Haider – in the interests of our citizens. I'm firmly convinced that tomorrow's the day. We're already preparing it today. Therefore, I submit the following request for the introduction of a quality partnership with local gastronomy, hotel industry and agriculture: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of the future of all sectors, we ask, Mr President, for support so that we can secure this wonderful country in a sustainable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23417	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23476	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23497	Mr President. High house! This wine law Novelle 2016 aims to improve the marketing opportunities of the Austrian wine sector and the sparkling wine sector. It is intended to continue the success story of the Austrian wine industry, as it was correctly said. New developments in Community wine law will be implemented and suggestions from the sector for structural improvement will be implemented and implemented. All changes are made with the wine sector, with the trade unions, with the National Wine Committee, with the Regional Wine Committees, with the representatives of the wine the wine trade and wine trade have been discussed, processed and supported in detail in an exemplary manner. On this occasion, I would like to thank the honourable Member, in particular, for the exemplary management of this sector, which has become a real model for other sectors in agriculture. There's actually an industry doing their homework. Congratulations on the Austrian winegrowers and the Austrian wine trade! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The most important changes have already been made. In particular, they concern the strengthening and better profileing of designations of vineyards and vines, the adaptation of hectares to the future application of INVEKOS, which will lead to a reduction in the area of vineyards, as well as the adaptation of the vine register and the planting arrangements to the requirements of Community law. In addition, we have a regulation authorising the adoption of a sparkling designation regulation and the possibility for Uhudler producers to produce fruit wine from those grape varieties which cannot be classified for the production of wine. I also thank Mrs. Mr Brunner, she has already left us – no, she is here – who has announced that you can also contribute to these changes by the Greens in the meantime. [[Abg. Brunner makes herself felt from her seat by handsigns]] I think that is also a sign of cooperation here in the House for this sector as a whole. On this occasion, let me also address the following with regard to the really catastrophic frost and snow damage that met us at the end of April, especially the fruit and wine farmers in the south and the southeast, also in Burgenland and Lower Austria. There, massive damage has been done, which, in part, puts producers at real risk of existence, so that in part, they will not be able to harvest in the next two years. This has really been quickly helped. I would like to thank all those involved. In the context of Agenda item 3, you have already decided on the revision of the Civil Fund Act and, with the amendment to the amendment to the amendment, you have also provided for the donation of the disaster fund. I would like to thank all those who have been involved here, Minister of Finance Schelling, who has immediately become active and initiative, and, of course, all the political groups who have contributed to it, for this constructive work that has been done here. This is a sign of appreciation for our farmers that such disasters are being quickly helped. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would also like to express my express thanks for the fact that you have also agreed to the Austrian harvest insurance scheme, the extension of the harvest insurance in the framework of the amendment to the Hail Insurance Funding Act, which is also very broad in agreement. This too is a support for the sector's own provision. It also underlines the entrepreneurship of our farmers, our farmers, and, on the other hand, is also a clear sign that we are here contributing to the climate change adaptation strategy; it is at least €76 million by 2020, which we have provided here in support of the prevention of public resources. I think that is also a sign of appreciation for our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23575	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23597	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to draw attention to what Schellhorn said: The wine industry is an example of how strict legal regulations support and, on the contrary, do not bind a dynamic sector. At the time, the strictest wine law in the world, which was decided, was not at first undisputed in the wine industry because it meant a central change. In the end, however, the winegrowers went along this path and – and that is true – made the sector extremely dynamic with incredible innovation and modernity. Col. Schmäreschlager has already responded to this. In other words, a proper legal regime is a solid basis for a sector to develop, also following an international trend, as other wine-growing countries, such as France, have gone ahead in the international field. Austria today, one can say with fug and law and without exaggeration, play in the international league worldwide. Thanks be to the winegrowers who follow this path consistently. What is being supported here is that screws are turned, which are designed to facilitate the work of the winegrowers, as is the case in the present wine law Novelle. Whatever the sector has achieved is that many regulations and needs of the sector come from the wine industry itself and it is now a good tradition that is not said, the price is bad, but that one achieves solutions that will then be implemented and which ultimately help the industry. It is therefore important that we continue this path and that it is implemented here. It is therefore also important that support has been decided here today after disaster damage. This is less about the fact that money is now being spent in the wine sector and in the fruit sector, but it is about helping an industry that has been hit in the market if one is faced with the destruction of the annual harvest or perhaps several years of harvest. The state symbolically says: I stand by you and help you when it comes to threat of existence. That's important, and that's, I think, a nice signal of support. On the topic of Uhudler: I mean, that's actually one of the phenomena you've been experiencing in politics over and over again. This is also the case in this case, which, although it is a small area of vines, creates a huge debate in the media. Somehow, however, it also has its reason, it is a bit of a fight against David against Goliath: the great rule at the European level on the one hand and some sincere winegrowers who force the director named Uhudler and are urged by the European Union that they should not be allowed to do so on the other side. It is therefore also understandable that it has such a wide range, but at the same time it is necessary to have this EU regulation. At the time, I was allowed to negotiate the EU wine market system as a Minister of Agriculture, because at the European level – because the wine goes well – there have been efforts that can be achieved throughout Europe, even in disfavors We're allowed to plant wine. Together with partners, we Austrians have said that we do not want to. We want that only in certain regions. Wine is grown so that we do not endanger this quality path. That was successful. At the same time, however, the European Union says: We don't want the direct carrier types that were around the Uhudler. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Nevertheless, it is important to safeguard the Uhudler, for he is more than wine or a drink. He symbolizes a little bit of a region fighting for survival: the southern Burgerland, which is structurally weak, which has enormous emigration and where there are few jobs. Therefore, it is right that the deployment was such that there is support in the region. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Now it's much better!]] The winegrowers have thereby achieved a huge increase in quality and have conquered a market. If, for example, you're a short time ago. At the farm at the so-called Kul(t)inarium, you have seen hundreds of visitors tasting Burgenland products, including the Uhudler; or there are also the paradise days “Come” to Paradise!”, this is an initiative that takes place again and again on the third week of May, in the context of which there are also various regional products that you can enjoy, with which a region wants to help itself and present its specialties. [[Keeping a magazine high]] Maybe you have time to visit the event, it's worth it. Mrs Brunner, you said that the rules of the Wine Law might be illegal in the EU. It's the other way round. Experts from Klosterneuburg say that the wine-growing regulation of the Burgenland may not comply with EU law. [[Abg. Brunner: I said...!]] – Listening You're looking at the experts! It is therefore all the more important that there is a safety net. What we decide here today is such a thing. This wine law means being able to declare wine as a fruit wine in order to get out of the EU's wine market order and to have a safeguard. One last word on the financial donation of the disaster prevention and crop insurance quoted: We have decided today; Lower Austria, Styria and Upper Austria have also made it, the Burgenland not yet. It is a pity that the Burgenland government has not yet decided to do so, because this makes Burgenland farmers worse off than the farmers in other federal states. I hope that the State Government of Burgenland will also decide to ensure equality among agricultural holdings. [[Abg. Preiner: colleague, you have...!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23675	The next item is the report by Mr Schabhüttl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23696	Thank you, Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners, here and at home! With this novel to the Wine Law, some meaningful and important innovations are being introduced today. My previous speakers have already pointed out this in their urgent remarks. It will not surprise you if I come back to the topic of Uhudler as Southburger countries. Today we decide to transfer the Uhudler, the Southburg direct carrier, from the wine sector to the fruit wine area. It should not be forgotten, however, that it was much more important in the run-up that the Burgenian agricultural councillor Verena Dunst classified nine typical Uhudler grape varieties in a consistent and acryric work. How important this is, I would like to make it even more precise: This classification allowed these nine important grape varieties to be included in the Burgenland wine-growing regulation. The winegrowers who were threatened by Rodung must not be reddish now. This measure means legal certainty for Burgenlander Winzers, an economically secure future. But that also means that the Burgenian winegrowers can for the first time produce a quality wine and sell it as such in relation to the nine grape varieties that have been classified. This also means that the brands Uhudler and Südburgenland can be better assessed and applied. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me say a few words about the state of this Uhudler rescue and about my previous speaker, the former Minister of Agriculture, Mr Berlakovich. Interestingly, there was an ÖVP Landesrat in Burgenland for 60 years. Mr Berlakovich was also there, later he was Minister of Agriculture, and there was no Uhudler solution and no rescue. [[Abg. Berlakovich: Because there was no problem either!]] – Yes, there has always been the problem, you haven’t seen it! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schönegger: Is this the new style?]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] It probably needed a social democratic councillor to obtain legal certainty from the Uhudler-Winzers of Burgenland and now produce a high-quality Uhudler wine. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Berlakovich: Now the problem has occurred!]] It would have been possible to bring about this solution much earlier, but there was no need to do so, as Mr Berlakovich points out. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Berlakovich: Now the problem has occurred!]] Summary: The Uhudler is saved by the inclusion in the Burgenländer Weinbauverordnung. All unclassified grape varieties can be declared fruit wine. Of course, I will also support these measures as additional safeguards for the winegrowers in the south of Burgenland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23822	The next item is Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23843	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We can rightly be proud of the achievements of our wine growers and our wine industry. [[Abg. Beautiful, Bravo!]] In 2015, according to Statistics Austria, a wine harvest of 2.3 million hectolitres was determined, of which 1.4 million in Lower Austria alone. A total of 49 million litres worth € 144 million were exported abroad. In order to maintain this Austrian success path, the right framework conditions must also be set. The offer to: Wine increases worldwide, and the range of wine in higher quality explodes enormously. To this end, we can agree with the liberals of the wine law discussed today. I am very glad for the Burgenländer that the Uhudler fight was brought to a friendly end. The grape varieties concerned are transferred to the fruit wine sector by means of an explicit determination and are thus permanently secured. New to this Novelle wine law – it has already been mentioned – the increase in the maximum yield of 9 000 kilos is also 10,000 kilos or from 6 750 litres to 7 500 litres after the conversion of the vine area register to the requirements of the integrated management and control system. The novelle also makes it clear that in the future, the list of vines will be run not only by the Bundeskelrei inspection, but by the national offices responsible for the catastrophic management. All in all, the new wine law is a solid foundation for the Austrian wine industry, a successful harvest, delicate quality wines and a further increase in wine exports. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23880	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince-in-Office. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23901	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speakers, in particular Austrian wine-growing president Johannes Schmauzenschlager, have carried out in detail the contents of the Weinbaugesetz. I may add that even in Upper Austria, excellent quality is produced at just under 68 hectares of 39 wine growers and we now also have a wine-growing association in Upper Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Not only the wine farmers, but all the farmers work with nature or in the wild, so they are of course also exposed to the extreme weather. We have already dealt with this in detail during item 3 of the agenda today. It is important – if you think about the snow pressure sequences and above all about the frost sequences due to the weather conditions at the end of April – that a clear signal has been sent out to the disaster fund funds – from hopefully all the affected federal states for the affected rural families – because the damage is serious, it is about existence for many. However, it is not only about the existence of those who were damaged by the frost at the end of April, but in reality many rural families are threatened by the price situation in their existence, for example in the dairy sector. In the cattle sector, too, the pigmeat has been in the valley for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Intensive Considered: What do the rural families need? They need, on the one hand, fair partnerships with the manufacturing and processing companies, fair partnership with the trade chains that sell these foods to a large extent, fair partnership with consumers, but also fair partnership where policy-making is concerned, e.g. fair partnerships with all the political parties responsible for this House. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The political framework too!]] Only if this fair partnership is guaranteed will we perhaps bring together appropriate forward movements. A corresponding income is important for these rural families, but the current prices cannot generate a corresponding income. In reality, it's a little too much that the operation is going into, but to life, to build a existence it's too little, let alone that you could invest anything of it. You just need to see what's going on in the construction industry, what's going on in the machinery sector. There is a clear sense of this, because the money available to the rural families goes to the regional economy. This is a question of jobs in the areas in which they are located, but also of jobs for the rural families. Finally, from every farm that gives up, people push on to the general labour market. You can believe that the farm labour force or the rural family members in the economy are highly sought after. You should take that seriously. I think we need to think about fair prices. It is not okay if we discuss that a liter of drinking milk may not even cost one euro and a liter of cat milk in the trade may, of course, cost €4.95. What's the difference? – The cat milk is smaller. Does that fit the appreciation of farmers? - I don't think so. Is the appreciation of agricultural products if a litre of milk is not allowed to even cost a euro and a litre of an energy drink, for example, costs five or six euros? - I don't think so. That's where we should think. [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo!]] We need to think about what the standards look like. If we set standards at this level, we must also be clear that from elsewhere only something can come to us with the level. This is not okay in my eyes – in order to formulate it very politely – when on one side there is a trade chain, in the direction of TTIP mood, which is all right, but at the same time the same week placarded that milk prices were generally lowered. - That's actually not all right. We are all called for more fair partnership. That's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e23965	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1061 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their approval at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the resolution on support for agricultural and forestry farms in connection with the damage caused by the storm in the Committee's report 1116. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 143.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on the establishment of a quality partnership for local gastronomy companies. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give the motion for a resolution a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[21:15:12]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1047/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, Harald Jannach, Josef Schellhorn, Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues concerning 10-point milk package: Action programme for Austrian agriculture after the end of the EU milk quota system from 1. April 2015 (1117 A.D.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1341/A(E) by Mr Harald Jannach, colleagues on the regulation of quantities for the stabilisation of the milk market in Austria and Europe (1118, e.g.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 1627/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on milk dialogue (1119 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24087	We shall now proceed to items 15 to 17 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jannach is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24114	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Mr. Prince! [[Looking towards the ÖVP series:]] Is he still here? Isn't he? He has previously explained what is bad in agriculture and has said that we have to consider what we are doing in agriculture. Please, for 30 years the EIA has been making agricultural policy, so we have so low prices, so we have this development in the farms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Weakness!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If Mr. Prince goes to the speaker's desk here and says it's all so bad, you have to ask yourself what he's done here. He gave an opposition speech, said how bad it is, but he could have told the Minister that you finally have to do something. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As I said, we are definitely talking about milk today. There are undoubtedly difficult times in agriculture. We have the frost damage, this is a natural disaster, we are all in agreement, and we have done a lot for it today. – Not a natural disaster, but a political one, is the crisis in the dairy market. The milk market is really a disaster, and that is not a natural disaster, but because we have such prices that drive dairy farmers to the brink of existence, you, Minister Rupprechter, are responsible with the European Union. That's not an exaggeration. In Germany, the prices are 20 cents, we have prices of 30 cents, and that is no longer economic for farmers in Austria. That's what it was. Their failure and also the failure of the peasantry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The three requests that are now on the table are a package of measures proposed by the opposition parties. This is an application for quantity regulation for the stabilisation of the milk market, the re-establishment of a milk quota, and the creation of a milk dialogue to finally implement measures to help local farmers. We liberals have been warning for years to abolish the milk quotas. In our view, it was a capital error of the agricultural policy to abolish quotas. By the way, Mr Minister, you have said that you do not cry for the milk quotas. I do not understand why you are a meagre advocate of the quota system in the sugar beet sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] We have just discussed the wine law, also in wine there are de facto quotas and regulations, where the state is governing. We believe that this is more than useful for the dairy sector. It is better to introduce and regulate milk quotas than to pay farmers only subsidies – more or less than image damage also in the non-agricultural population – and to try to compensate for the loss that cannot be compensated for. We therefore call for the milk quota to be reintroduced very clearly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is happening now is a massive damage to the location of dairy farmers in Austria. All those who have to do with agriculture know that a dairy farm that stops its production is no longer 99.9 percent in the process of producing milk. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Find me great anyway!]] It simply doesn't produce milk anymore, and it actually does what we want for the farmers in Austria: a shift in milk production in favour, but not in favour of Austria, but in European favors. We can't want that! This also has to do with food sovereignty in Austria, we want to maintain small-scale farming in the mountain area. This is much more than pure milk production. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you, as your Minister and the Farmers' Federation, are in favour of the fact that the quota has expired and farmers have been left to the free market, you also have to say that this has a serious impact – also on society in Austria. Because if an agricultural holding is locked up, the labour force is moving on to the labour market and burdening it. Tourism is massively damaged because it is no longer managed in these areas. And the social life that massively affects farmers in these remote areas is also being severely damaged. If farmers today face this catastrophic milk price, they will remember a year and remember what has been predicted before the milk quota expires. President Schultes said: Everything's not a problem, we're well prepared. The Minister said that we are making a "soft landing". He doesn't cry for the quota. Today, we see that the dairy farms are under massive threat in their existence, and two months after the expiry of the milk quota in the previous year, the policy has already had to decide on an aid package in order to maintain milk production in large parts. However, we say that this package of measures – and that is why we have not presented another package of measures by the opposition parties – has not been enough in Weitem. Last year, we suffered at least €100 million of damage due to this milk price decline, and the package of measures has just made up €7 million for the Austrian farmers. This has not compensated for the losses, and we are facing the disaster of blocking many dairy farms today. Now the hat burns, so we demand a reintroduction of the milk quota. We are calling for this milk dialogue, in which we are seriously dealing with these things and the crisis in the milk market. And whatever we demand as a liberal, and we have been calling for that since it was: an end to these unscrupulous Russian sanctions! Russia's sanctions are really a disaster, not only for agriculture but also for the whole Austrian economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, the sanctions are, in our view, an economic stupidity, and they are one of the biggest hypocrisy actions that can be done in Austrian and European policies...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24209	Mr President, I would really ask you to be moderate in your expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24224	Madam President. We think the sanctions on Russia are a completely false economic signal, and I say it again, even if I risk a call for an order, I think it is a hypocrisy because Austria and the European Union are doing business with very, very many dictatorships around the world. Why here Russia...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24247	Mr Jannach, I do not know why you insist on it, but I give you a call for an order for the expression ‘saint’. And I'd ask you not to repeat that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24318	Madam President, I take note of this call for order, but I also note that the concept of hypocrisy has already been presented here in many speeches – and has not been called into question.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24339	Mr Jannach, I would like to inform you once again that the Presidency decides in terms of expression whether, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, this is a violation of the state of play and the dignity of this House, and that is why I give you a second call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24384	At any rate, I note that Austria and the European Union are doing business with many dictatorships around the world, because Saudi Arabia is certainly not a democratic country, even China is not as democratic as perhaps Russia, and therefore we consider the Russian sanctions to be a capital mistake. By the way, I would also like to remind you that Austria is a neutral country, that according to the Constitution it is necessary to adhere to neutrality and that it should not be allowed to struggle with the European Union in front of the United States. That is why we are calling for an end to Russia's sanctions, not only for domestic agriculture, but also for the whole economy in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, Mr Minister, I would like to remind you, because it is always said that we cannot do anything about the milk quota, that is the European Union; we have to agree, and unfortunately this is not the case, of the failure of the domestic agricultural policy, which we have repeatedly criticised here: The agricultural diesel was abolished with the aid of the ÖVP Farmers' Federation, which is a distortion of competition with other European countries, the increase in social security contributions was decided by the ÖVP in the 2012-2017 savings package and I do not need to mention the single value statement: This led to a 30-, 40-, 50-percent increase in unit values. The inconsistency of the bureaucracy, which lies in Austria in an incredible way like a crack over Austrian agriculture, is unbearable, and here And now there would be a chance to cut into these existing structures once, with the new Federal Chancellor and the new style that keeps them in, and to see if there can be no savings potential in the interests of domestic agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Every day we and the Austrian agricultural policy remain inactive here is a lost day for local agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24438	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24459	Thank you for the initial applause. [[Abg. Schimanek: Just don't become oblivious!]] Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Listen: Not always so superlative! ... election results!]] Yes, Mr Jannach, we have real problems in the milk sector. But we also have problems in other sectors, which is undisputed. I agree. I also have no pleasure with the Russian sanctions. I agree with you, too. [[Abg. Singer: That's what I'm looking at!]] But, my Ladies and gentlemen, it is already exciting when Mr Jannach goes out here and is responsible for everything – thank God not yet for the weather and for the snow pressure and for the hail – for the peasantry and the agricultural policy. [[Abg. Deimek: If the peasantry does not use anything!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is known that there is no farmer's association in Germany. It is known that in many countries there is no farmers' association in Europe, and if you want to make a milk price comparison, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria we still have a better one than in Germany or elsewhere where. So, obviously, agricultural policy cannot be that bad! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the liberals who complain so many things have a very close relationship with Austrian carnivores. There you could go to your party friends and make sure that appropriate prices are paid. That's where you need action, ladies and gentlemen. But you seem to me, Mr Jannach, like a critic and a eunuch. You know, there's no difference: Both know how it goes, but you can't, and you can't either. [[Abg. Listen, order call!]] [[Abg. Haider: That is acceptable to the dignity of the House, Madam President?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It's pretty slow enough for me, ladies and gentlemen! That's amazing! And if you're saddening the milk quota, I'd rather, if it were the milk quota. But if this were the all-healing remedy, I ask you, Mr Jannach, why was the same crisis as it was at present in 2008 and 2009? There was the quota. Have you forgotten this or don't you want to remember it? As short as possible I don't think you're going to return your memory either. Ladies and gentlemen, you should stay a little bit with reality. [[Abg. Listen: And you at the choice of words! Even if the Madam President...!]] The fact is, production is increasing, consumption is falling. The fact is that due to the break-up of Russian markets and the decline in Chinese market share, we have corresponding problems. The fact is that production cannot negotiate at an eye's eye with trade, because the large sales chains in Austria, including the three of them in the number, have around 87 percent market power. I wonder a few times: Where is the competition authority to ensure a counterweight? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You're fast on the dairy business. And we also know, ladies and gentlemen, that export could be even better. I would like to thank the Minister and the Minister for Health that it was possible to set up the export service agency as an export service agency to help export-willed companies, under the motto ‘Best of Austria’. We have excellent products. We could be even better, that's undisputed. But if you pretend to know the cure, I would ask you to take care of it in your areas – you have opportunity to worry about it. You are making sure that in many other areas, where you have a very large political proximity to corporations and those responsible, farmers will be given more fairer prices.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24600	Mr Pirklhuber is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24621	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. [[The speaker gave himself a glass from a “A fair milk” pack.]] [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Player!]] [[Abg. Deimek: Is this really true, Madam President, that for the word Eunuch...?]] Perhaps the waves should first be smoothed in this infight between FPÖ and Farmers' Federation. But one of them has already mentioned Mr Jannach, I think, quite specifically, where I would have expected my support from Mr Auer. In one point, there is clear clarity: The European agricultural policy has failed in the dairy sector, failed all the way, Mr Auer, and I ask you to stick to this, this debate is important. [[Congratulations on Members of Greens and FPÖ.]] This discussion is important. In fact, the milk market also needs a European solution that actually combines supply and demand. And that was the essential content of the request that we, the opposition, have put together: Adjustment, colleague Auer, the production to the demand of 500 million consumers in Europe. Yes, we farmers want to produce for European consumers. But we don't want one. deliver milk powder to Africa and there ruin agriculture, deliver milk powder to China or elsewhere to the world at dumping prices. That does not mean anything, for no agricultural work here in this country. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Steinbichler.]] Mr Auer, and I will talk about the Committee's positive things, I am also grateful that we have enforced two subcommittees on the problem of milk, on the problem of the pig sector and the prices on the pig market. We had representatives of trade, the representation of interests, all of which we had in the committee, in the subcommittee on two committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also received a very concrete impulse through the Milk Manifest – the Milk Manifest, a thesen paper, Mr. Federal Minister, with ten very concrete points. [[keeping a poster with the title “Milch Manifest” in height]] The “Austrian Mountain and Small Farmers’ Association”, the IG-Milch, which launched the “fair milk” as a project, and the Green Farmers together presented this milk-manifest in Vienna, we have submitted it as a request, and we will have a joint resolution today on the basis of this milk-manifest. I think that's a positive signal, I really want to say that in all its clarity. In fact, it is a positive, right signal to set up a round table among the farmers' representatives, with the involvement of the political parties, with consumer protection, the dairy industry and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the Milk Manifest call for? – “Fairness towards small and extensive farms”, clearly, “less power per cow – more grass in feeding”. These are simple measures in Europe to minimise surplus production, smart measures. I remember that ex-Agricultural Minister Riegler introduced a dairy-supplier-free premium at the time, which immediately had a positive effect on the milk price. And that was the best milk price we had in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the examples we have discussed. I am grateful for him and I will also agree with Mr Preiner and Mr Auer's request, which is based on this Ten-Points-Milch-Manifest, which says quite clearly – and I am reading from this motion for a resolution tabled by our colleagues, whom we also support – that: “At the heart of all considerations,” says this resolution, “is the environmental, social, economic and regional sustainability of agriculture and forestry. In this sense, action should also be taken at EU level’. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we need a turn in the European agricultural policy, we need this turn more urgent than ever because we need to save rural jobs in the interests of nature, in the interests of consumers, in the interests of the labour market. This ecological and social change can only be achieved if at least one country is moving forward, and I expect that this country is Austria, just as we are progressing in organic farming with a future strategy, with a positive market-oriented future strategy. [[Abg. Wheeler: Van der Bellen will do this!]] And one, Mr. Prince, because you've spoken criticism of a supermarket, I'm telling you quite honestly: I have looked at the prices today, and this milk costs €1.25 in the supermarket, a solidarity price. [[to the package ‘A fair milk’]] Every consumer who buys this milk pays contributions directly to the farmers. The organic milk in the supermarket costs 1,19 €, the normal conventional milk costs 99 cents, thus almost 1 €, and the cheap milk in the Austrian supermarket 0,85 €. Ladies and gentlemen, this is more than 20 cents more than currently on the German market. So if we're talking about partnership, Mr. Prince, we have to take trade on board, I'm here with you. [[Abg. Prince: You haven't understood yet!]] [[Further calls from MEPs Steinbichler, Rädler and Prinz.]] But we also need to see that cooperatives have to pay their members proper prices. And that's why I'm very curious about what this round table brings. We will be very active and directly involved there. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24744	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24765	Madam President. Minister Rupprechter! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A good year has passed since the abolition of the milk quota regime, and agriculture is unfortunately in a crisis in existence. The prices for a litre of milk are in a price segment, which makes it no longer possible for many businesses to work cost-effectively, and not at all to work profit-oriented. I am very thinkingful when I have to drive through the country and observe very, very many farms where investment has just been made, where farmers have invested their money in the expansion of stables in the hope of a better future. At present, as has already been said, the milk price is 25 cents, unfortunately with the tendency to fall further. I've got to hold on to it. Responsible policy must simply look different, so it must not continue. From this responsibility, unlike Mr Jannach, I am now going to fail to start a political exchange here, simply because it is not useful in the present situation and because we have to put the facts as quickly as possible and immediately as possible. The farmers have earned a solution and have no dispute. And that's why I'm inviting everyone in this hall: Let's work together here to find solutions. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (in his "Milch-Manifesto"-Plakatend) There are suggestions!]] So today and here and now I will put the binding over the separation end and propose some solution-oriented points that are important to me personally. Farmers need rapid help. The aid must be target-oriented and provide a long-term perspective. Even smaller farms must have the chance to survive, not just to survive, but to live well. We now have the fifth year in a row, where there is a decline in income. That must be quite easy to end. I am working organically, and I am not saying this because I myself work professionally in this segment, I am also saying this as the Salzburg MP, where we find the greatest density of organic farmers – right, more than 40 percent, colleague Pirklhuber – I am really saying this out of deep conviction and because I also see these great successes here. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Over 40 percent!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The price of organic milk is close to 50 cents, which is close to the demands of the IG milk. What it still needs is a targeted support. With this we do not only a pleasure to man, but above all also nature. We therefore need a clear strategy for diversification, especially in sales. And the focus cannot be on mass production, the focus must go towards organic and hay milk, because it already works there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But above all, I call for agricultural training in schools, which is based on these conditions in a timely manner, where a biological-dynamic economy is also clearly embedded in the curriculum, that is, away from the quantity and quality optimizations. I would like to welcome the invitation of all NGOs to move on, although I welcome it – as agreed in the last Committee on Agriculture – to hold a dialogue on milk, which is quite, very important. As has been said, this is a clear and long-term perspective for our farmers, and that is immediately and as quickly as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24832	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24855	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated Minister! I have rarely heard anything like that when it comes to milk, as Mr Pirklhuber has said, I have to say that clearly and clearly. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Happy to meet you!]] And it also has format and content. If we look at what this is all about, then – I don't want to say now, the Farmers' Federation, but the ÖVP side – you have to deal with the fact that the quota system is no longer coming, even if you always demand it. [[Call to the ÖVP: What did he say?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rädler and Mr Sieber]] If Phil Hogan said that, and even if the Minister of Agriculture could take back the Russian sanctions in his own hands, it wouldn't help much anymore. The problem lies, I think, somewhere else. Last year, after my request for a voluntary industry agreement, I was accused by Mr Sieber of economic nonsense in the Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] But what proposal did he have? What proposal did he have? - None at all! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Sieber.]] – The problem is that especially with you, for example, in the farmer’s all-rounder gets more for milk, but in the supermarket it’s cheaper. What is it about now? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The only reaction from the Lord Auer was: We need a new authority here. - It's clear! A sub-agency of the AMA, which then somehow regulates the prices and makes everything new. So red tape building up to three, and it was also noted from the Court of Auditors that this is a bit too much of a good thing if we have the red tape building again. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] - Yeah, you can talk anyway. I can only remember that the Court of Auditors did not recommend further expansion of the AMA, but rather a little bit narrowed. That's what he recommended. I believe that this is not the right way you want to go with a new authority, but I believe that we should enter an open dialogue, and that is why this request is so supportive. I think everyone should go along. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Very good!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24959	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e24981	Madam President. Minister! High house! Austria's agriculture and, in particular, the dairy sector is currently in a difficult situation, and many farms are in a situation of threat to existence. We have therefore also devoted a lot of time and space to the discussion on this subject in the last Committee on Agriculture, and, in order to advance the good, we have agreed that we will start a joint dialogue on milk. The dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, very important, but we should be careful not only to express our wish for the Christkind in this dialogue. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is important: concrete demands!]] A European quota is quite desirable, but of course it is not possible to discover a majority for such a quota. One thing you have to say, of course – I repeat what Mr Jacob said Auer said –: The quota did not prevent priceless soles from going through in their stock at the time. The quota has also led many companies to bear extreme costs for quota purchase or quota leasing. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But that is intended!]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: That was a confession...!]] Fresh money, ladies and gentlemen, which we would need to solve this problem is not in the prospect at the moment, but I have heard, and the Minister may say something about the crisis reserve – at least €450 million – at European level. I am also very clear to you from this point of view that I would have liked the European Commission to have at least made available the funds collected by farmers through the super levy to deal with the crisis situation. Unfortunately, that was not possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss many different issues in this dialogue: the market, the food trade, the commercial customers, the international dairy and also the price situation. We will not, however, pass by encouraging farmers to make market-compliant decisions at the heart of farm considerations even more so than before. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Good request!]] In the future, a question will be raised more and more for each company: What milk do I produce? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Read the resolution!]] – Do I produce gene-free, conventional quality milk, produce hay milk, or do I choose the biological method of production? [[Abg. Steinbichler: Is this a folk school requirement?]] Because Mr Steinbichler is calling in like this again, I'm telling you what I'm not doing. [[Abg. Steinbichler:... a miracle farmer!]] I don't care for genetic engineering-free production, produce devils come out and deliver my milk to Germany. I don't! [[Abg. Steinbichler: What?]] – I have stopped my production, I have dropped the intensity of production, and I have been since 1. Japan's biologically-economic conversion operations. [[Abg. Steinbichler: I'll explain this to you immediately]] I did. What you've done, you'll be able to tell us afterwards. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the joint motion of all the opposition parties is out of conviction, because the message that he sends is quite simple: Dear peasants, pay for yourselves! To this end, it clearly aims at the sustainable damage of the agricultural processing cooperatives, and we are not to have for that purpose. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The measures taken by the European Commission, in particular the intervention purchases, will help in the short term, but will have to be questioned in the long term. The six-point programme from our Minister offers the right approaches in the long term, but the quick help that farmers now need cannot bring. An important proposal in this respect, which I expressly welcome and which I would like to highlight, comes from our Federal President Jakob Auer. [[call to the FPÖ.]] It calls for the suspension of a quarterly social security contribution. This would be quick and unbureaucratic aid that farmers now urgently need. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: It's also decided!]] Proposals of such quality are now in demand. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... not yet implemented!]] Debt allocations are unnecessary. Now it is important to develop solutions for our farmers in the joint dialogue. We are happy to be ready for this and we are also moving forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25185	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25206	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker places a sign on the speaker's desk with an impression of the Raiffeisenbank.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm completely aware that the nerves are white. When I use for decades: I am the lawyer of the rural area... [[Abg. Rädler: You were once too!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Is he still!]] – Of course, until I was thrown out because I didn’t learn the prayer. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] My dear friend, but that doesn't matter, you don't have to know everything. But perhaps I can start, Mr Sieber, with the former agricultural councillor Toni Steixner, that's a little near you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] He said: The prophets of the IG-Milch are supposed to go home, we do not need them, the Holy Three Kings, that already does the agricultural policy. – Then he flew out as an agricultural councillor – he has sometimes said the truth – and the next day he delivered to South Tyrol. Mr. Sieber, for the third and last time, I now tell you that it is a difference whether you are a businessman yourself or whether you donate the milk of the cooperative, which they then lead to Germany. By the way, Mr Auer: In Germany there is already a farmer's association, there he is called a farmer's association, and they are not better at all. [[Abg. Auer:... the Farmers' Federation!]] They're not better at anything, that's right, but it's different. That's the label flaw, but I'll come to that, please, later. [[Intervoke by Mr Sieber and Mr Pirklhuber.]] However, I can clearly say, Mr Sieber: the same tank train that runs from Steinbichler in Aurach am Hungary's milk to Bavaria around 29 cents, then goes to Gmunden to the farm cooperative, picks up the spot milk by 16 cents and then goes to Bavaria. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's how it looks!]] This is the destruction of the dairy sector, dear colleague Sieber. Check out before you get back there and you think you know a little bit about the dairy industry! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] And don't preach that you're such a very goodman who's so limited, because I don't go to the stable at four o'clock in the morning, so I'll have a fairy tale tell me there! Let me tell you one thing, my colleague: The dairy holding is the formula 1 of animal husbandry. That means: 365 days a year, all day, 24 hours, willingness and commitment, and that doesn't belong to ridiculous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] I draw the hat, I have highest respect for every cattle breeder, in front of every animal farmer, in front of every pig farmer who does this at all at these prices. I should like to point out clearly: It is mentioned again and again on the world market, which has been strapped for years – I have deliberately taken no specialized literature with it – in agricultural newspapers, agricultural newspapers, specialist newspapers and expert opinions, it has been said how super everything develops, how great the chance is when we get the quota. Mr. Minister, you're the biggest speculator. Those colleagues who have said that the dummies that buy according to quota should pay Deppentax, I give my quota here, sell it to my colleague and speculate on the fact that the quota is falling, you have run into the door for the last two years, you should abolish the quota, and you have believed them. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes!]] That doesn't matter. Those who cheat – I take back the word “deceptors”, Madam President – who sits speculators are themselves guilty. And that is the true matter. We have called on the Committee on Agriculture to maintain the milk quota for at least three years. We were smiled. No, they did counter-events. The milk perspective was presented at the Mondsee Castle in 2020. 20 percent more price, 20 percent more quantity, 20 percent more export. Ladies and gentlemen, when I look at this: I don't know – a great action! – ‘Taste of the home country’ or ‘Austria’. That's what it looks like today. [[The speaker will hold a poster on which lamb racks from Ireland are shown at €16.99 per kilogram and Alpiland Edamer/Gouda by €2.69 per kilogram.]] I am convinced – as convinced as your agricultural policy makes [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] When this is processed, the valid and correct quality seal is on it everywhere. I can now mention a price that is actually very affecting me. This, Mr. Principality, is a cheese produced by an Austrian cooperative, commercially available at €2.69 per kilogram. [[on the poster shown before]] - Now we've done it! Now we are with cheese and butter at the palm oil price – artificial cheese price and palm oil fat price. That's how palm oil butter looks. [[Keep a pack with the label “Phase Professional, How to Use Butter” in height]] Now we have reached this price level, although it has always been disputed. I have always pointed out that we will land there: 2,69 € a kilogram of cheese! Everyone here in the hall, who can count, can calculate this: This means a milk price of 7 to 8 cents. That's where we are now, and no one needs to explain anything to me. Because Mr. Principal spoke about partnerships: Yeah, what do the dairy farmers have? – 99 percent of agricultural cooperatives! The dear founder, Mr Raiffeisen, would turn around in the grave if he saw what was made of his valuable idea. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Köchl.]] To the world market: We arrived at the palm oil price in milk. I have declared the world market: One conducts the spot milk throughout Europe, around the globe worldwide, until it is worthless, and thus destroys the production on site. I would like to give an example from the pig sector: The Austrian slaughterhouses are fighting for quotas for China. We have 1.7 percent of production in Austria in the slaughter pig sector, and our slaughterhouses want to export to China. That's what the whole world wants, that's what the Putin wants, that's what everyone wants. China has in the meantime become one of the largest pigmaids – but at group level. In China, just like in Austria, the farms close in series. 5 million small Chinese pig farmers now stop feeding pigs and say: If the Austrians can get cheaper, then they should come with their quality! Is the world market or is it the head fraud? Is the world market or is it sustainable? – We have to ask ourselves the question here: Does Austria want to move forward? Does Austria want to offer its consumers – I refer to the consumer party – particularly fair products with a clear price calculation, with a full cost bill, knowing what the farmer needs so that he does not have to sell his farm, whether milk, meat, wood or cereals? – Let’s go the way together, but without accusing us! I consciously removed it until the end: That's the product. [[Keep a pack with the label “SENNA Linea Verde Bio Universal” in the direction of ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] – Please do not, Mr Sieber! Dividing a little bit, and then we're good hay farmers anyway, then we're the ones that limit themselves. - I'll tell you one thing: That if you don't feed your cows, don't let the animal guards pack you, because you don't give them any more food of strength: If you have a good cow, you have to feed it accordingly, and if you want, I'll teach you today, I'll tell you, because I've been doing it for 47 years. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Let us not scatter sand into the eyes of the people. We must act accordingly, and it can have a biocow the best performance if it has genetics to do so. We've been breeding for years now, and now we're probably starting with the fact that we're making Norwegians out of racing horses. So I'm not there! I want you to be rewarded, as in the economy, if you do a job. We have to get back to living in a country – and hopefully tomorrow will start – where performance is rewarded and appreciated and not destroyed and destroyed by any speculators. This is not a forward-looking, sustainable policy. We don't want to. I shall therefore put forward a motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the key issue. [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly, Kern!]] How long do we want to make corporate policy? When do we decide on the five-party application for the Austrian Quality Seal Act since 2009? - I don't know, you're afraid of that like the devil. I submit the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] So if this is not a noble task for a minister of agriculture and the environment, if that is not a noble task for the Minister of Health, then I do not know! It is ultimately about the health of our people, about the jobs of our people, about our climate, about our environment, about our quality of life. I would ask you to support this proposal at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25425	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25520	Mr Rupprechter is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25541	Madam President. High house! The situation on European agricultural markets is undisputedly critical. No one likes that, Mr Jannach. I believe that this assessment was not shared in the discussion and debate we had in the Committee on Agriculture. One of the main causes – I think that is also undisputed – is certainly the Russian embargo. The fact that we lost about one third of the cheese exports in the dairy sector in the summer of 2014 cannot be recovered by a sector such as the European dairy industry within one year, which is completely undisputed. In other sectors too, relaxation is not really foreseeable, such as pigmeat, which has already been mentioned, which is at the price level already in the fifth year. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: It is not only Russia..., the Chinese market and other markets too!]] The fact that the dairy sector is now faced with the loss of the quota in addition with a massive expansion of supply in northern Member States – in Ireland, northern Germany, the Netherlands or Denmark there are double-digit growth rates – of course brings additional price pressure, additional pressure on the markets. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But we in Austria had it before!]] The Austrian multi-supply of January from the previous year to this year is quite significant at 5.3 percent and, for example, in the scale of the expansion of the quotas before the complete expiry of the quota. You have to say that. It must also be said that Austrian milk prices – as Jakob Auervollig correctly said – remain significantly above the EU average. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Because the consumers are ready with us...!]] Of course, it is painful when milk prices fall below 30 Euro cents. It is completely undisputed that this is painful for the producers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jannach.]] It should also be noted, however, that: We are still in the upper quarter of Europe's milk prices. This is also our processing companies, thanks to our cooperative companies, which are really in competition. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is thanks to consumers, because they pay the prices!]] In this context, you can also note: There is a price differentiation in the meantime, especially for special milk: For hay milk, for organic milk, there is indeed an increase in milk prices. – This too must be noted in the critical analysis. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] I and we in the subcommittee, Mr Pirklhuber, have pointed out that, also with the experts of the various political groups, the analysis has been carried out very intensively. I think that a number of the proposals that have been put in place here will have to be included in our milk dialogue, because I simply believe that we really need to highlight all the points of approach, and also because the constructive approach of all those involved is in the foreground. As far as the milk quota is concerned: Mr Steinbichler, Member of the European Parliament Jannach: At Fischler Reform 2003, the last decision was taken to extend the European milk quota until 1 January 2003. ==References====External links== April 2015 in the previous year. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: 2015!]] Since then, an extension has not been possible. The Austrian agriculture ministers have always been in the Council for this, and it was no longer possible for the last reform, since there was no majority left and the European Commission had no willingness to put on the table a proposal to extend it, and you know very well that in the common agricultural policy the Commission has the exclusive right of initiative. We have therefore known since 2003 that the quota will expire, and I believe that the Austrian dairy farmers have also prepared themselves very well for this expiry. If your 10-point action plan now proposes to introduce national quotas, there is no possibility in EU law for this, and I also do not think it would make any sense, economically and agrarianly, to introduce national restrictive measures. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is not in our programme, Minister! You have to read it! That's not in the application!]] We have committed ourselves at European level to voluntary delivery withdrawal. Commissioner Phil Hogan expressed his willingness to do so at the March agricultural meeting. The organisations, the trade associations now have this opportunity, but it is also clear – and this has become clear – that such voluntary models will not work at European level without financial incentives. That is why I strongly supported the Council of Agriculture Ministers in Brussels yesterday that there should also be financial incentives. We will see whether Commissioner Hogan will set up appropriate initiatives in the Council in June of this year. A majority of Member States have voted in favour of this. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is agricultural policy!]] We have – and this has been decided in the Committee, and the motion for a resolution is a broad majority – expressed our support for the establishment of a dialogue on milk. We have already conducted the appropriate preparations and coordination talks. We want to prepare such an appointment intensively before the summer and to hold this milk dialogue in order to be able to take appropriate measures, possibly also in legal terms, in the autumn, in order to set up appropriate accompanying programmes and measures for the sector and for local dairy farmers, because we are simply responsible for the Austrian dairy farmers to give them this appreciation because they provide the best quality, non-genotechnic milk and many special milk that really have a market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] In order for them to be able to receive a reasonable and reasonable price again in the future, we must support the sector accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25689	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25711	Madam President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation on the milk market is dramatic, and some previous speakers have already made this very clear. In Germany – and this is not uninteresting – the milk price has fallen for the first time to less than 20 cents per litre in the last few days. In Austria it is still significantly above, currently between 27 and 30 cents per litre. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] This is much more than in Germany, but of course not enough to cover the cost of production. What is important for rural areas and, above all, for farmers: With this price, income is not to be guaranteed, let alone increase what would be of major economic importance for rural areas. We have done cause research in a separate subcommittee of the Committee on Agriculture, and it is clear to me that the Russian sanctions are aggravating the current situation, that is not a question, but the cause is clearly the outcome of the milk quota, more precise – and self-critically or towards European agricultural policy – in the poor management of the transition, because that quota is not only known since yesterday or for three months, it has long been known. What happened? – Many producers have come to devils out of production. The current overproduction of milk and price decline was, of course, the logical consequence, not only in many other countries of Europe, but Austria was fully involved and almost in the middle of it. In 2014, in the last year of the milk quota, the milk supply exceeded the 3 million tonnes limit in Austria. The quota at that time was significantly exceeded, and there was a penalty payment of € 45 million due to this overproduction. Others have placed on the bio rail – or had the opportunity to do so – and the difference is noted at the prices I mentioned in the introduction. It's always hard to draw comparisons, but I want to give two thoughts: There was a massive change in Austria in 1988, when the official price regulation in the field of basic food was abandoned. I'm from the production union. The industry, especially the metal industry, has undergone a profound structural change in recent years and decades. The result: We are one of the strongest industrial sites in Europe and we are not convinced by the mass, but above all by the quality. Today – hopefully unanimously – we will create a round table, a milk dialogue. Perhaps these experiences can be incorporated there. In conclusion: We need innovative solutions, not simple ones. A re-establishment of the quota is not currently under discussion, and simply higher subsidies are not a solution either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25763	The next item is the speech by Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25784	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the current situation in the dairy sector, there is a possibility of Don't report anything positive. The situation is really dramatic, and the milk supply has actually increased more in the last year than has been suspected. Now, of course, you could say: The trigger was the withdrawal of the milk quota. If that were the sole reason – it has already been pointed out – one would not have had a dramatic fall in prices in 2008 and 2009. So there must be several reasons, and there are. The sanctions in Russia have already been mentioned. This is, of course, a factor that touches us. About a third of cheese exports from the European Union go to Russia. Only neither the Austrian Parliament nor the Austrian Minister of Agriculture can abolish these sanctions. Putin alone can take back these sanctions which affect Austrian agriculture. The situation for us is really dramatic, and the effects could go far beyond the agricultural area and change the face of the country. It is interesting, of course, where there are proposals for solutions. If Mr Steinbichler, who knows everything, offers the solutions, it is a little surprising to me, of course. One of his best colleagues from the founding years claimed that he will revolutionize the dairy industry and founded the Free Milk with the result that the farmers who have delivered to this institution received a milk price that has reached just over 20 cents last year. This cannot be the model for the future. The opposition has also proposed other models with a minimum price and so on. Today, it has obviously already deviated from it again, at least it has not said anything more about it. They're not practical either. A split price would be possible, but not ordered by the State, but if it requires market conformity of dairies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] So how will it continue in the future? – Cost relief for farmers would be recommended. It has already been mentioned by colleagues Sieber that we should also think up to a suspension of social security contributions. But ultimately, the most important thing is to open up markets and consolidate markets. The domestic consumer is certainly the most important partner, but there must also be analyses of the market situation and demand trends. There must be cooperation with gastronomy and tourism. There must be an extension of the best bidder principle. The entire white and yellow palette belongs to it. In the case of regional marketing initiatives, the success factors should be reflected accordingly. Specialties can be marketed better. And then you have to act. I could also imagine taking over transport costs from remote areas and from remote farms. I expect an exciting discussion in the milk dialogue.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25846	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25867	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! The lower the milk price, the louder the calls for faster help. Unfortunately, this is in the truest sense of the word a milkmaid bill. The negative correlation is nothing new. In the 1980s, milk prices were introduced, they were terminated in 2013 and ran by 1. On 4 April 2015, the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and, on the It is for the simple reason that they have not been able to eliminate the butterbergs and the milk lakes. We are talking about €56 billion in EU money for agriculture, of which €43.5 billion are direct payments. And yes, it is true that the prices for raw milk have fallen, we have just over 25 cents, in Germany since last night 18 to 19 cents, with the cost coverage at 40 cents. One of the biggest problems, I believe, is the promotion of milk exports. This will not solve the problem, but it will only be pushed further. It must be handled very carefully, otherwise it will ruin the market and the agriculture of the Third World. What does it really have to do? – The problem is that we already drink over 200 grams of milk per day in Austria, which is 79 kilos per year. At some point not only the market is saturated, but also the stomachs are full. I don't like the situation any more than everyone else. On the one hand, less and less is paid for the milk, but on the other hand, this development will force exactly the breeding of these turbine cows. Since 1960, these cows have given more than doubles. Poor animals, poor consumers, I can only say! There is guaranteed not only one solution, but a whole bunch of measures: Specialisation, regionalization and education. Since the time is over, I would like to conclude by quoting Josef Urschitz from the press. He writes: “But to believe that one could create a very clearly defined problem, namely the overproduction, by means of tax-financed repeal of the economic heavy-power laws from the world, is, well, in the most convenient case, a little blue-eyed.” There is – and this is always confirmed to me – no simple solution, so we need the best minds quickly. The first step is certainly the milk dialogue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25918	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25940	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The discussion shows that the topic of milk and dairy farming is burning all of us very much under the nails. I think it's important that we create an shoulder closure here. However, the fact is that there has been a massive increase in the quantities in recent months and last year, in Holland over 11 percent. Austria has achieved a reasonable increase, but there have also been developments in the supply and demand side. The solution – I think we all agree – would be quite simple if we could go down the milk quantities and if there could be more unity in total. This is simply not the case, and it is therefore very important to try with the milk dialogue now to develop new ways and opportunities for a global dairy industry in Austria and also for a competitive dairy industry. I believe that all proposals should be made. From my point of view, we need market-compliant behaviour in production and also in milk processing. But we also need to take advantage of all the opportunities that the niche offers. Of course, the niche is not the general answer, but if we are at present The prices range from less than 30 cents to more than 70 cents, when we consider quality or different types of special milk. Especially with us in Tyrol, where we have different providers, we experience this. That is why, I believe, we have to take absolute advantage of the opportunities of niches, but we also need answers for conventional milk. However, we also need to invest specifically in innovation and marketing and to process the markets specifically. If it were so easy to lift Russia's embargo, we would all have wanted it and then we could have it as quickly as possible. But it just doesn't play! I believe that in the future we are all working together with our own responsibility, but also with a certain endurance. After a deep there has always been a recovery. I'll invite you all: Let's sit at our home location! We can all do something to help, because we are all often in other responsibilities in the communities or in the country. Also the domestic market needs to be processed specifically; and I think I am buying at home, buying fairly, buying regionally, buying quality, which should be a principle of the hour for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e25985	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26006	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think it's all right if you make yourself and say, The agricultural policy, which has been made in Austria over the last decades, is a bad one, because it is simply not. We should see this in the European comparison, ladies and gentlemen, what the Austrian agricultural policy has achieved. With its income policy, the income combination, it has ultimately succeeded in maintaining this structure across the board. We can now measure this by the situation: It is precisely those businesses, exactly those smaller ones inside the income combination, that make it easier to get through this crisis than large businesses that do not have a combination of incomes. I have a very concrete example: A friend of mine who has worked intensively with the dairy industry – he has one of the best farms in Austria with a hundred cows and a million litres of milk, he has no income-combination option – called me a month ago and said: Fritz, I have to stop producing milk, because I pay €4,000 to €5,000 in the month. I'm 58 years old, my son's wife goes to work, the son's home alone. We need to intensify, because I do not want to hand over the farm at the age of 62 or 63 and then have €500 000 in debt, because we can't earn anything with the dairy industry. [[Abg. Beautiful: This is the success of your agricultural policy!]] And if you think we can make prices, then you didn't understand what was happening. And if I would also like to say to you that you criticize the cooperatives: I'm glad we have the cooperatives. I am glad that we have strong processing plants, because there the farmers are the owners, there the farmers have to take part in the economic development of the company and ultimately also to ensure that they pay a rather low milk price. Let's not talk about the real problems. Yes, the sanctions of Russia are a problem. I hope they'll get away soon. It is growing in China exports, which is a problem, because of course there is too much on the market. It is a problem that we no longer have quantity regulation, since there has been no European majority in favour. You have to address this openly. But we still have a problem. We have a concentration in trade with the trade chains, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The rules of dumping! Let's do something!]] Three trading chains have a market share of more than 80 percent, and the problem is that in the middle there are at the expense of farmers, at the expense of workers and at the expense of consumers sales maximisation and profit maximisation. We have to put the problem in place once. I believe that it is important to start actionism again in the future in Austria. We have made actions, such as “Taste of the Homeland”, “So tastes Austria”, “Heimisch kauft secures jobs”. This is also an essential action that we can also demonstrate how many jobs can be secured by buying 10 percent more Austrian food. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: At that time you said that's a trade union action! That's what she's supposed to have done!]] That's where we need the appropriate actionism again. Let's really pack the problem with the kick. Let's look at this concentration of power! And there, I think, the farmers and consumers are true allies. We have a lot to do about this, including the awareness raising of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26070	Next item is the report by Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26091	Madam President. Minister! If you listen to the debate – especially now especially colleagues Grillitsch – then you come to the conclusion that you can't do anything anyway. You can't do anything at the prices. [[Abg. Grill: Can you press the button?]] You can't do anything about Russia's sanctions, it's about the EU, you can't do anything. You can't do anything about the quantity regulation. In the case of China's exports – although the Minister was there with a large delegation – nothing can be done. I wonder where the political eunuch is at home, that is, on this side and not with us, I have to say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, to return to it again: We can have a hard political debate on agricultural policy here, which is not a problem. But rather President of the German Farmers' Federation Auer, here simply call a fellow Member “Eunuchen”...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26137	Mr Jannach, I would like to draw your attention – you know very well – to the fact that it is, of course, the case that in this House personal expressions of contempt or disdain are to be suspected of being called for. I asked the Section for Stenographical Protocols of the Parliamentary Directorate to forward to me the minutes of Mr Auer's speech, since I did not perceive the statement. If the Stenographical Protocol is here, I will make a decision on it. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: It's already there!]] – The Stoneographic Protocol is here. You have been Members of Parliament for many years, and I would ask you, in your speech, to ensure that you do not violate the dignity of the House and that you do not make dissuasive statements. Please, you are on the floor, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26181	Madam President, it is absolutely clear that you are requesting the Stenographical Protocol. I'm just wondering about my person's feelings of inequality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Always in the victim role!]] All the Members of this House have heard that Mr Auer has said “Eunuch” to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26226	Mr President, I think I have pointed out to you that this is a form of expression that calls for an order. If that is the case, it will take place, and I would ask you to take care of it now in your choice of word.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26242	Madam President, I only note that I am simply opposed to such expressions and do not tolerate it, nor do you allow such a choice of words to take place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26269	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26308	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers! With increasing concern, I have followed this debate. I have read text with great joy and would like to read to the former lawyer in the rural area of one – not the worst of all –: They're working hard on ambiguity. I really ask you, there are citizens who have worked all day, now sit in front of the televisions and hope that we take seriously the concerns and needs of the citizens, the farmers, also those of entrepreneurs – because of the lost value added to the farms – that we have on the farms. Mr Minister, I really have to turn to you now – to make myself banal here, we have had this before, the Vice-Cancellor has also said that he has no influence at all, but he is negotiating to Brussels –: You stand here and say it's the EU. Yes, we do not need to be surprised when God and the world resort to this EU, which would make great sense in itself, but has nation states. If you say you can't do anything, I must remind you that during your period of office the agricultural diesel has been abolished, that under your new funding programme the suckler cow premium has been abolished, that the unit values have been greatly increased, that the social security fees have been substantially increased, that the municipal tax has been increased, and that farmers can no longer afford it. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: That is not true!]] [[Abg. Eßl: What are you doing with the butter?]] Mr Minister, if you say here at this point that you are inability to act, that's the worst EU, then I must ask you clearly: Why do we have a ban on bonding in Austria as the only country? – We don't give it that cheaply: If there are difficult regulations, if there are non-useable regulations for a practitioner, then we are strong, then we decide, then we can enforce everything; but if we need regulations to help practitioners outside, then we can't do it. I would like to address the honourable Member and President Eßl specifically – I do not call you by the name of the cos: If you try to put my mind on me again, I have something to do with free milk, then learn agricultural policy. Wolfgang Pirklhuber carried the right pack, namely A fair milk. [[Abg. Eßl: How much does fair milk cost now?]] Stop consciously baffling with precepts! You're not worthy of what you're doing. You have to say that to your Salzburg dairy farmers and dairy farmers. I don't wonder the Salzburgians are calling me more and more. You have to think about it, not me. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I can say the following: If someone here allows himself to talk about the surplus, butterberg and the milk lake, I ask him to bring me the evidence as it looks in the milk shelves. [[Abg. Eßl: What does it cost? 20 cents or less?]] - You can still shout so loud in there. Please speak! [[Abg. Eßl: Do you pay more than 20 cents or less?]] Mr President, I would like to remind you of the subject of meat: It is clear to quote the subcommittee in which farmers talk about beef from 145 to 150 percent of their own production in Austria. If you ask market experts how much Austrian beef is in the shelves, the 38 percent talk. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I need to mention that that smells. It is important to clarify this, and there is no need to blame anyone – the evil corporations, the bad supermarkets and the cheapest trademarks. If one says tomorrow he wants “morning gold”, it is produced by peasant cooperatives. Who do we want to accuse? Why are they delivered? Why does a dairy refrigeration car come to them? Why does a refrigeration car with meat, half of pigs, half of cattle from the slaughterhouse come to them with farmed mediation, with chamber mediation, with stock exchanges? So all contacts, all responsibilities are in a house, and go here and say that the situation is critical, for example because of export to Russia. Minister, please look at your export prices. You yourself told me in a written request that we have export prices from 1.73 € to 3.80 € per kilogram at the World Cup cheese. [[Abg. Eat: How much do you pay for milk?]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – Lauter, Mr President Eßl, you said, I know. I think you know a lot more, but you never get it out of here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The difference is – I have to say clearly – that I don't want to have the black Peter put to someone who can't do anything for it. You can't make it that cheap. You're always standing down and saying, We are the responsible, we are the lawyer of the rural area! - Then play a lawyer! Every lawyer who goes to the court hearing and then falls over, has made the trial playful. I ask you to take responsibility – Mr Minister, especially you! Work with the market! Palm oil butter looks like that, so it looks like palm oil margarine. [[Keep a pack of butter and a pack of margarine in height]] Whether or not pig farming, pig mast, whether or not farming, whether or not Milk holding: All of us are affected by this fraud. No matter whether refugee discussion, no matter if climate change, we cause it every day. Let's stop pushing the black Peter around! If we take clear responsibilities, we take solutions – Mr Unterrainer, thank you for referring to the Subcommittee – we will take the opportunity to do so at the moment, but then please also with solutions! For this we are to have, for this we advocate: For our citizens and for future agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26444	After obtaining the Stenographical Protocol and reading your statement, Mr Auer, I give you an order for the term “Eunuch”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next speaker: Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26479	Madam President. The emotions rise to a little more advanced hours. They are quite right to go up because they are hundreds of thousands of farmers in Europe. We still have 13 million jobs in rural areas in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a deep crisis of agricultural policy. Mr Auer, it is not about being personally offended, but about taking the political measures necessary to give the farmers the future. [[Abg. Jannach: That was not right what he said!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of losing oneself in small personal beads. Seriously, that's so essential! Mr Auer, the common agricultural policy is one of the central European issues. Most of our agricultural budget, almost EUR 2 billion, comes from EU funds. So if these funds are not sufficient to secure agricultural jobs, Mr Auer, this is a failure of agricultural policy – at least European – and if we do not know better in Austria, it is also a failure of Austrian measures in one area or another. I say to you, where this is happening in Austria: In recent years, the chambers have also been advisory in Austria and have received a lot of money for the consultant contract et cetera. As the chief speaker of the Chamber of Agriculture in Austria, Commissioner Schultes, you are responsible: What happened to the chambers in Austria? – Stocking, building stables, increasing the operation. These are some of the farms that are facing bankruptcy today. Yes, I do! 500 000, 600 000 € for a new stable at a milk price of 25 cents, of 27 cents. It is totally impossible to redeem and achieve this in the dairy sector. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude: Nevertheless, it was an effective and important dialogue that we held here at the parliamentary level. I would also like to thank Mr Auer and Mr Preiner once again for their willingness to hold these two subcommittees. I would like to see the next step actually going constructively as a conclusion. I would like to say once again what our joint request says: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, is invited to launch a milk dialogue and to invite them to a round table to participate in which consumers, farmers' representatives, representatives of the food industry and a representative of the parties represented in Parliament. The task is – and this is the important – “this round table is to refer to the milk manifesto described above” – I remember, I have kept up the ten points of the milk manifesto – “out of all possibilities to develop relevant policy measures for the Austrian dairy industry that are cost-effective” – once again: a cost-effective – “milk production in the future.” This is the price debate, which is the question of whether we need anti-dumping rules, which is the question of what quality measures we need to strengthen in Austria in order to achieve these cost-effective milk prices. It is also a question of how we can maintain the solidarity of consumers, who are in reality – the consumers in Austria still buy Austrian dairy products – and this is also a great success, one must say on this occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to do something about it. I would like to ask you at this point, Mr Federal Minister, of course also to invite the initiators of this milk-manifest to this milk dialogue and to implement it quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26522	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26551	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Federal Minister! In order not to raise the situation any further, I will not respond to the claimed words by myself, but I will try to make a speech. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it is as Mr Pirklhuber said: We should be grateful to the Austrian consumer for taking hold of Austrian quality. This is essentially the decisive factor in the sales market, because the consumer in Austria also knows that he receives excellent quality and a product from a farmer's hand. - That's one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Exactly!]] Second: If you already, like Mr Steinbichler, think that there is also a farmer's association in Germany – but in another form – then I can remind you that there are already seven green ministers of agriculture in Germany. I therefore wonder why prices are worse than we are. - That's the second. Ladies and gentlemen, let us hold: Policy does not set the price, neither if it is positive nor if it is bad. Unfortunately, we can create framework conditions – fiscal, production-based – but we cannot determine the price, which is still to be achieved by companies on the market. Whether it's good or bad, it's something else. Ladies and gentlemen, thirdly: It was exciting that the former German farmers' association president Sonnleitner expressly congratulated the Austrian farmers on the Austrian agricultural policy, because, due to the conditions, it was much better for the Austrian farmers than for the German farmers. So you can't get a better compliment from someone else, so despite everything, it can't be so bad. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen: If the claim here is made that the linkage would be the problem of Austria, I remind colleagues of what a FPÖ collector has said about the animal welfare law from this speaker's desk – and that can be read. Mr Herbert Haupt has at the time made this animal welfare law a condition for coalition. It was a proud day for the Freedom Party, was said several times here. – You can read it all. So, ladies and gentlemen, do not pretend to have caused such difficult conditions for Austrian farmers! Fourth, the municipal tax: Mr Steinbichler, the local tax has nothing to do with the Minister for Agriculture. – So that this is also held. And for the fifth, the one-value regarding: Perhaps one has forgotten that the VfGH has considered the unit value to be no longer compatible in various cases. So it was necessary to repair. If he had not been repaired, he would have been with 1. January 2015 ended and you have had other tax conditions since then, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Steinbichler, if you want to continue with this, you can do it. If you make a voluntary account, you will no longer have to pay attention to the annoying package, this is completely free for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26595	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1117 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 1047/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on the resolution on the situation in agricultural markets, annexed to the Committee's report 1117 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 144.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, ladies and gentlemen, on the Quality Seal Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1118 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1119 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1627/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on the resolution on milk dialogue annexed to the Committee's report 1119. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 145.) [[22:38:32]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 257/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the ban on the cultivation and import of genetically modified maize in Austria (1127 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26715	In this way we reach the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26742	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The request made by Mr Hofer, our presidential candidate, from 2014 concerns the cultivation and import ban of genetically modified maize in Austria. I would just like to take a short look at the previous items on the agenda for agriculture. There is a good sign that there is a milk dialogue in this area. Mr. Federal Minister, this is a praise in your direction too. I was at this forest dialogue last time, which was very, very well accepted. It is likely that this will be achieved in agreement with the economy, industry and at the same time with the forestry industry. The aim is to find consensus in agriculture as a whole, in all areas, in the meat sector, in milk production, in fruit and vegetable production wherever possible. I think it is high time to reach a consensus in this area, namely in the sense of agriculture, in the sense of our farmers. Because if you've followed the discussion before, you've seen one thing: Just rolling in the past is too little and does not benefit any farmer. I now come to the request made by Ing. Norbert Hofer. Why did we make this request? Also to recall the topic of genetic engineering as a whole, especially in connection with TTIP. The TTIP Free Trade Agreement is an instrument – and in advance perhaps through the circumvention of CETA – with which the genetic engineering door and gate is opened, namely in the cultivation of maize or in the field of food. As early as 2014, 19 EU Member States allowed themselves to waive this authorisation concerning the sowing of genetically modified maize, namely the sowing of the variety 1507. We have also managed to make a joint request in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection across all political groups on which a final vote is taken. It calls on the Federal Government to “in the case of authorisation of GMO plants by the European Commission to take all necessary measures to prevent cultivation in Austria, in accordance with the GMO law and the GMO-prohibition law.” This was a first success and, of course, was built on the request of our presidential candidate Norbert Hofer. He had already seen, two years ago, in a wise way that this topic was important for Austria. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Reciprocity and calls for tender with the other parties]] He is also the only perceptive candidate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] – I understand the excitement on the part of the Greens. It's not a problem. I know your nerves are a little white right now, but that's not the subject. It is crucial for us that our presidential candidate has seen in a wise perspective two years ago that it is an important topic, and not only that, but also accordingly... [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] - Absolutely, I understand. In this sense: We will also support a request tabled by Mr Pirklhuber. [[Further calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ delegates.]] This proposal, also in the wisest perspective, perhaps for the next few years, deals with the labelling of animal food derived from animals fed with genetically modified feed. [[Call at the ÖVP: Also in wise foresight!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] – Absolutely, very good! [[General hustle and bustle.]] In this sense: Our candidate for the Federal Presidency is therefore Norbert Hofer for you. We are pleased that we have a broad support here in the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26822	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26843	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Feeled 99 times was now the name of your candidate. [[Abg. Scherak: What's his name?]] [[Call the FPÖ: You don't have any more!]] You do not leave an opportunity to link this up with all the topics. But if we come back to the heart of this debate, we could really have the title on the assumption that: Caution is the mother of the porcelain box as far as genetic engineering is concerned. But there's one thing that's going on: Please do not mix this topic with TTIP or CETA! You know, in Austria we have the genetic engineering law, the genetic engineering ban-framework law and precisely some framework conditions that regulate cultivation with us. The objectives behind this are very clear: to protect the environment from sustainable change or damage. We're actually in agreement. But to compare the situation is also always with the question of energy generation by nuclear power. You may also have read it and found it out: Since yesterday, the rumors that the European Commission wants to put more emphasis on nuclear power again, namely small nuclear power plants and much more. In this context, I am very glad that this report has been revised by the Commission. But we see that these two questions are similar or related. These topics appear again and again. The approval of these GMO plants, i.e. genetically modified plants on the European continent, is also always about new applications for authorisation. So I am glad that we have been agreeing in the Committee on the Environment, but in reality here throughout the plenary session for a long time that we are closed to these two proposals, both in terms of the release of GMO plants and nuclear power. We have thus managed to formulate a joint motion for a resolution and to adopt it unanimously. In the interests of environmental protection, I can only ask you to give your consent to this joint request here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26890	Mr Pirklhuber came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26911	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe in the front: It is the only request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and I would like to express my great regret. We have excellent, interesting proposals, for example on climate protection packages from our colleague, Brunner, but also other requests that were ready for voting from my point of view. Then we could have debated these proposals. You can be for it or against it. Only this request from Mr Hofer, as it were, has found the way to be dealt with at the end of the day. I would like to say, Mr Höfinger, that this joint resolution, which we have brought together, goes back to my initiative. I tried to get something half-time up-to-date. Why? Because the objective of this proposal, which is absolutely in order, namely the ban on MON 1507 maize, has already been fulfilled, and I have been able to show it in the Committee. In other words, Austria has reported to the Commission or to the Group, in the case of Pioneer, and has already approved of the Commission – there is this list, which I have submitted. That is, we can “ban” it – under quotation marks. I am nevertheless grateful for this request, because once again we have managed – and this is quite a positive signal – to vote unanimously in favour of it from Parliament, and this is the Committee resolution: “The Federal Government is asked to take all necessary measures in the case of authorisation of GMO plants by the European Commission, in accordance with the GMO law and the GMO-prohibition law, to stop cultivation in Austria.” – So, that’s good, we have confirmed this, it’s important. But, Mr Hoefinger, if you say that this has nothing to do with TTIP and CETA, I cannot agree with you. Why? We have no genetic engineering, but we have genetic engineering feed. They must be marked, of course, in Austria, in the European Union. [[Abg. Höfinger:... request!]] - Yes, yes. But I say that Mr Hofer's request refers not only to cultivation but also to the import of Genmais. That is also the reason why we continue to consider this request to be useful, even if it is not feasible in view of the legal possibilities or non-opportunity we have. This does not mean that an import ban cannot be implemented. But we can do one thing – and I would like to make this request now: We can very well take action in relation to genetically modified feed. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So, ladies and gentlemen, a resolution quite specifically following Mr Hofer's request, it would be timely. The Minister also spoke about the importance of non-genotechnic production in Austria, as did other colleagues. Unfortunately, there is still a missing link that does not have to be fed mandatoryly free of genetic engineering in all programs for the AMA seal. Mr Federal Minister, this is not just an uncertainty, but simply a pitfall that we need to resolve quickly, because it involves consumer deception. I hope here also for the support of the Social Democrats, since I know, not only the VKI, but also the Chamber of Labour criticizes this. [[Abg. Wenninger: We're left!]] There were really good opinions on this. Perhaps we can make this a close-up, Mr Wenninger. In conclusion: TTIP we must stop because the interests of the American genetic engineering industry – I emphasize: American genetic engineering industry – are quite clear. The top representatives – and they have made this public and not secret – say in their official opinions: The European Union's labelling rules in the field of genetic engineering do not consider them acceptable, which must be taken from the table. They do not want this marking; they accept, if at all, only a “genocal-free” label. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, just in this area, we still have a few tasks ahead of us. But it's already late today. I hope that you will still give your approval to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e26986	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27050	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27072	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, late in the evening, so many good-night stories are told. Mr Pirklhuber complained that requests on climate protection had been postponed – which is right – but has forgotten to say that, on the initiative of colleagues Höfinger and I were agreed to organise a large parliamentary survey on climate protection before the summer, to which we will invite all players to Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] This instrument is a more comprehensive one, and it is in the interest of parliamentary dialogue to vote on individual applications and to hold a hearing in the Committee on the Environment. We said: We put this on a large scale and make a parliamentary survey on it, which has also been widely accepted. The second part of the “Good Night” story is that of my colleague Rauch. Mr Hofer's request was so to speak a slightly overwhelmed request from 2014. In the meantime, the legal conditions have changed, and that is why Mr Höfinger and I have tabled an amendment which has then led to an all-party proposal within the Committee on the Environment. We have indeed agreed to make a new proposal from this old Hofer proposal, which should have been rejected, with the involvement of all six parliamentary parties. I am very glad that we have now found a clear parliamentary consensus on the issue of resistance to the release of GMO plants. The request is not very detailed, but it is a clear political signal. This strengthens the Federal Government, especially the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health, and is also a clear signal towards the European Union that we are also closed to genetic engineering in Austria, as we are against nuclear energy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Listen: Subjective...!]] Finally, I would like to thank Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger personally and on behalf of the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for two and a half years of very active participation and participation in the Committee on the Environment, as well as Mr Hannes Fazekas and Mr Michi Ehmann, for your private, professional and political future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27138	The next item is the report by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27160	Madam President. Minister! High house! We heard: There is obviously no party that officially advocates food GMOs. And that's very good. But I would like to remind you of the following: In addition to the officially communicated position of Austria to GMOs, there is another official Austrian representation of interests, which has very probably been used at EU level on behalf of Austria for genetic engineering. In the course of the fourth TTIP negotiating round, which was early March 2014, Greenpeace published leaked position papers from associations from 19 European countries to TTIP. And see: In this context, economic associations criticise the slowing down of genetic engineering in the EU. In this letter it was explicitly pointed out that the platform also speaks for an organisation from Austria, namely for the Chamber of Commerce! In the course of this, of course, it is particularly important that we have brought together a joint proposal here. In the original application of the FPÖ, a national ban on the cultivation of the controversial maize variety 1507 and the use of the Federal Minister for a general ban on the import of Genmais was required. – As the smallest denominator, we decided something that should be clear anyway, namely, the status quo. Mr Hoefinger, I think we have to address TTIP in particular with regard to GMOs, because it is particularly important to defend and safeguard the precautionary principle of CETA and TTIP, which are much quoted red lines of Mr Vehement's Minister. With corn, soybeans and cotton: In the USA, more than 90 percent of these crops are genetically modified on the fields today. There is little or no marking there. If there were not the investor protection clause or the possibility of complaint, one could of course say: Yes, the market will regulate it itself; you don't buy it! But we all know: Monsanto and Co are not exactly narrow. Complaints against small farmers are just as day-to-day business as well as manipulated studies. In January, Monsanto even filed a complaint against the U.S. state of California because California wanted to place the active substance glyphosate contained in the Monsanto Pesticide Roundup on a list of carcinogenic substances. This would lead to an obligation to label – and they do not want to do so at all. Previously, the International Cancer Research Agency had classified glyphosate as probably carcinogenic. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that we must be very, very careful. And in view of TTIP and CETA, I find it very, very good that we take precautions here. This proposal, which we are making together, is a very, very good one. We also, of course, support 100 percent of Mr Pirklhuber's request, which extends this further to feed. Again: This is a subject where we must be very, very careful, especially with regard to TTIP and CETA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27226	Next speaker: Mr Pock. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27247	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I have missed the positive elements in the current discussion; Mr Weninger and Mr Höfinger have referred to them for at least a short time. I would like to mention two points, two things that have happened in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which normally do not happen in committees: All the parliamentary groups have agreed on a basic position and have tabled a joint motion for a resolution, a joint resolution that has gone far beyond what originally happened to the debate. Originally it was a maize variety, the maize variety 1507, whose cultivation should be prevented, and now we speak of all crops. That's a success. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wenninger.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: This is your speaking time!]] The second success is that we have progressed on climate change conference and implementation measures. There will be an survey, the date is not exactly fixed yet, but it will take place in June. [[Abg. Brunner:... nothing went ahead!]] The political groups as well as experts are invited. And if nothing goes forward from the Greens' point of view, Mrs Brunner, I must say that you want to make decisions before you discuss, and that is a little too fast for us, we would like to have all the ideas on the table. [[New call of the abg. Brunner.]] Since my speaking time is over and the Green Group is getting a little loud at this time, I would like to say one more thing: From the outside, one must say that such a committee can sometimes give the impression that it is a kindergarten. You have to hold that down, because the story of how the application was made was as follows: The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled a request, which was made by a candidate for the Federal presidential election, we call it Norbert H., who would like to ban a maize variety which has long been banned by the government. [[Call the FPÖ:Hofer!]] And then the committee has found that it is already banned. Then, the liberals, the Stronach team and the Greens voted against the request, only from a principle, although they had previously formulated a uniform request – my last sentence – with the Social Democrats, Christian Democrats and NEOS. I would like to see more cooperation and fewer children in the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27323	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27344	Madam President. Mr. Minister! The application shall cover in detail the authorisation and the sowing of genetically modified maize varieties. Although 19 States are already opposed to EU Commission approval, the legal or legislative value of the European Union must be compared to that of Austria. Therefore, domestic legislation should be preferred to the EU. The signing of the CETA Free Trade Agreement now stands in the room. It can be assumed that this Free Trade Agreement opens the door and door to the import of genetically modified varieties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Although the TTIP agreement is currently considered controversial, companies with subsidiaries in Canada will use CETA accordingly. Austria's agriculture is well known for its high, largely natural quality, so that everything must be done not to sacrifice this quality to the men of several large corporations with a relevant legislation and also questionable free trade agreements. Not to be disregarded is the planned conversion of the burden of proof in favour of Group policy. In my view, therefore, a ban on the cultivation and import of genetically modified maize is to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27379	Next, the Federal Minister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27400	Madam President. High house! To make it short: There is broad political consensus in this House, which is carried by all parties that we do not want to have the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in Austrian agriculture. That is why it was so important that in March 2014 we were able to fight for the right of self-determination of the Member States in the EU Environment Council. We have implemented this in a joint decision in the Council, then also with the European Parliament, and we have here in the House last year, in a broad political consensus, adopted a framework law, the Genetics-Prohibition Framework Act, which has already been implemented, and the Genetics Act, which ensures opt-out possibilities. In my view, this broad consensus, expressed also in this motion for a resolution, is only to be underlined. And, of course, I and the Minister of Health will take all steps to implement this ban on cultivation accordingly. That's guaranteed. I think it is also good and right for Austrian agriculture, because we have a single position feature with this ban, which is particularly important in export and is a correct orientation for agricultural agriculture. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Also for our consumers, Minister!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27437	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27458	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We Austrian farmers live demanding times. The freezing and snow damage, the prices for milk and the pig market and also the four consecutive years with falling income demand our farms. Many farms have great problems covering their costs, and many rural families are financially standing with their backs to the wall. We know, however, that there are many people in this country who trust us and keep us faithful: our consumers, because they know that we can produce organic or conventional products internationally at the highest quality. Thus, the present proposal is in fact only a small part to further enhance existing confidence, because we have already decided a right of self-determination for ourselves in July 2015. This means that we do not want genetically modified plants on Austrian soils. This attitude, this right of self-determination, we will be represented in national discussions, in European discussions and in international discussions with all vehemence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a beautiful sign that even a small country like Austria in a very international area, not to say, in a globalized world, can enforce its rights. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Together we are strong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We Austrian farmers deliver what you need every day. And I really want to ask you: Keep us faithful! Buy They are Austrian food, because this is good for rural structures and rural areas, which is good for the economy and jobs! Please, keep us faithful, we will all benefit from it! – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27499	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27520	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree to join briefly in the remarks made by our environmental speaker Hannes Wenninger. The Federal Minister has also mentioned the legal situation in Austria: We have two valid laws at the federal level on genetic engineering or genetically modified organisms. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which all six political groups agreed to adopt a motion for a resolution in order to ensure that Austrian fields remain free of genetic engineering. That's a very strong one, because it's a unanimous signal out there. Parliamentary measures are one thing, but it is at least as important to inform citizens and to raise awareness that it is important to value non-genotechnic food. I think many are not aware – Mr Pirklhuber mentioned it – how much is being introduced in feed – and genetically modified – from the USA to the EU, not only maize, but also many other changed plant varieties, such as soya, sugar beet and the like. Where is this mainly grown in Europe? – Mainly in Spain, also in Portugal, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia, and this should, of course, also be made aware of to consumers. What can we do? – With critical consumer behaviour, there is a lot to be achieved and we can help to prevent genetic engineering in food. However, several measures, such as international conferences, are equally important to promote the exchange of information at international level and also contribute to the harmonisation of labelling standards for non-genotechnic products, for example. It took place this April in Vienna under the honorary protection of Minister Sabine Oberhauser and Minister Rupprechter. There's also a declaration signed. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: I was there too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us continue to perceive our responsibility regarding genetic engineering in general and genetically modified organisms in particular as uniform and clear as we have already succeeded in fractionalizing with a clear no against nuclear power! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27560	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27581	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House at a later hour! Austria is free of genetic engineering in agriculture, and that is what it is supposed to be. And everyone agrees whether this is the consumer or the farmers or farmers. We want to determine what is being grown in our fields and what is happening there, and no one else should tell us, whether from the EU or from somewhere else. It's fact: We are certainly free of genetic engineering and our farmers produce a wide variety of products on the fields outside each day with truly high-quality, healthy ingredients. We are very proud of Austrians and also of the fact that traceability and traceability are also given. This, of course, also gives us an advantage in the presence of the market, because the freedom of genetic engineering makes us particularly important in Austria. It has been mentioned many times today, with the novelle on the genetic engineering law and the framework law we have implemented the right of self-determination also in Austria. Mr Minister, you have already mentioned it, we have shown that, as a small country, if we are persistent, we can also implement something in Europe. That's it. Each state has its own responsibility and self-determination. This, of course, gives our people legal certainty, which is particularly important. It has already been mentioned that this item on the agenda is different from the FPÖ's request, which dealt with Genmais type 1507 by Pioneer, but which is now obsolete, and that we have submitted a joint request here. I think that's a great signal. This has been extended to all plants and notes that we do not want genetically modified plants in our fields. It is a signal to our farmers that they will not be dependent on any seed or plant protection products in the future, and gives us the assurance that we have a non-genotechnic agriculture that will guarantee consumers more secure and good food in Austria in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27617	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27639	Madam President. Minister! Dear colleagues! There is another interesting proposal to us today, which we have jointly prepared in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We're putting a sign against genetic engineering! Mr Rauch, since my colleague, Mr Winter, is no longer an environmental speaker, the quality of work of FPÖ mandates in the Environment Committee has improved considerably. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that Mr Hofer's request was already very old and outdated and only because his name was mentioned above was made several times. I would perhaps like to say a few things about the circumstances of the legislation which have not yet been worked out in the debate. Indeed, in the genetic engineering legislation which we have decided here, we have a part in the Health Committee and the Genetics-Prohibition Framework Act in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. ==References====External links== In July 2015, the National Council decided on a majority basis. The FPÖ voted against. The basis for this was a government template, the EU Directive 2015/412, which concerns the self-determination of states and the possibility to decide for themselves whether or not they want to restrict or completely prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in their sphere of sovereignty. The interesting thing about this is the result of the vote. A total of four of the Austrian MEPs in the European Parliament voted against this possibility that Member States themselves may decide whether they want to prohibit a restriction or cultivation completely. These were the members of the EU of FPÖ Kappel, Mayer, Obermayr and Vilimsky. If you are making such applications in the National Council on a regular basis, you should at least make a statement with your party colleagues. I hope that everyone today will support this proposal, which was jointly tabled by all the parties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27678	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27700	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think you have to look back in history. Freedom of genetic engineering has been a problem for 20 years. Giant theme in Austria. If you look at the fact that there was already a genetic engineering popular desire already in 1997, signed by over 1.2 million people and thus, if I am not mistaken, among the top 3 people's desires, you can already see that Austria has been a pioneer in this field for almost 20 years, if one now expects away from the people's desire, and is also actively taking on a role with our minister, but also with his predecessor Niki Berlakovich, who has, so to speak, initiated the right of self-determination in the EU. So we have now been given the opportunity to decide for ourselves what is being grown on our fields. One important aspect of GMO-free products is, as I believe, tourism. We Tyroleans live very strongly from tourism. There too, I believe, it represents a huge added value if we can score with high-quality products from agricultural agriculture. This is also a reason why many people come to Tyrol. That is why we are happy to support this six-party proposal. I also believe that almost 100 percent of the Austrian population are for genetic engineering-free areas. That is why it makes sense to decide on this six-party proposal today. Thank you very much for the attention. I would like to address one more word to Mr Feichtinger, who is sitting with me in the committee of inquiry and also in the Committee on the Environment. I just want to wish him all the best for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27736	The next item is the speech by Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27757	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As regards the guarantee of freedom of genetic engineering in Austria, there is a broad consensus in all parties and it is almost impossible to say that the coalition between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Environment is very good. ==References== April 2016 here in Vienna, a meeting of many EU countries with the aim of maintaining a practical exchange, mutual recognition of national standards and a close approach to common definitions on the subject of non-genotechnic food and products. For a long time, non-genocidal food has been no longer a niche product, but a prerequisite for many consumers. The countries involved were Germany, France, Italy, Luxembourg, Slovenia and Austria. From the end of 2016, Hungary, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Belgium will be joined. The aim is to establish an EU-wide comparability of the standards for non-genotechnic food. Austria has always been a driving force in Europe on this issue. The particularly good cooperation between Federal Minister Rupprechter and Federal Minister Oberhauser is to be highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27788	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27809	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. GMO freedom is an important topic in Austria, which we have already devoted to a long time ago. In the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection there was a resolution by the FPÖ on the subject of the cultivation and import ban of maize in Austria. I would like to mention that this request has already been made. 24. It was introduced for the first time in February 2014 and has actually already come a bit into the years, because the current development has already overtaken this content. Already six years ago, 2010, Austria has declared itself GMO-free in the sense of self-determination. With two-thirds majority, we have also decided on the Gegentechnik-Ausbauverbots-Rahmengesetz, which will then take action if a group wants to grow GVO products in Austria, namely a two-stage process. Until now, this works perfectly. I also welcome the unanimous motion for a resolution of all six parties to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I would like to mention that the aim of SPÖ is not only to be GMO-free in cultivation, but also GMO-free in feed use. There is a problem that food imported into Austria cannot be verified for GMO freedom. This is also partly a problem in the course of the negotiations on TTIP, the free trade agreement between the EU and the USA. We have, as well as the other countries of the European Union, the organic seal, which really shows the quality of Austrian food and food. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27848	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27870	Madam President. Minister! Genetic engineering and, above all, the use of genetically modified foods is very controversial in Austria. Without authorisation, therefore, no genetically modified organism may be used in agricultural and food production in Austria and also throughout the EU. This also includes any changed seed for agricultural crops, including food and feed produced from them. At EU level, there are already some approved genetically modified plants. However, none of these changed products or plants have yet been grown in Austria for commercial purposes. There has also been no testing for scientific purposes outside the closed areas. We have a ban on the cultivation of these genetically modified plants. Although they have a cultivation permit in the EU, there is a ban on cultivation in Austria. New applications are currently being submitted to the EU Commission for the authorisation of genetically modified products. Although these are approved by the EU, we can still ban cultivation in Austria. A concrete occasion to follow the issue more closely was the approval of maize at EU level at 1507 and its consequences for Austria. We have now unanimously adopted a motion for a resolution within the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which aims to ensure the freedom of genetic engineering in our fields. Not only limited to maize, but also extended to all future approved products, will ensure freedom of genetic engineering in Austria. I am very pleased with this conclusion on this subject, and I think that this strict line must continue in the field of genetic engineering.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27902	Mr Fichtinger is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27923	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! As the last speaker of today and at the same time as my last speech as a Member of Parliament – I leave the House with a morbid day – I would like to take advantage of the opportunity of this six-party proposal to give you a few thoughts. The subject has already been discussed more than in detail and does not need to be extended further. Nevertheless, this request, to which all the political groups will agree, has also shown one thing to me: In all the controversies that we have here in the House over and over again on the various issues, and in all the various approaches we all have on these issues, I believe that all the Members of all the political groups are sitting here to work for the benefit of the people in this Republic and the Republic as a whole. I had the honour, the pleasure and the joy of being able to work here in the House for two and a half years. I learned a lot at that time; this time also taught me much what I will take. At this point I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the staff of the House very much, with the staff in our club, including, and quite expressly, the colleagues of all political groups, who, in most cases, we have a very positive and very reasonable relationship with each other, even though some verbal slipper may happen. In particular, I would like to thank the Members of my own group, the Socialist Group. Many of you, actually all of you, have grown to my heart as colleagues, but also as friends. I express the hope that we may meet again in this or other composition, no matter where and on any occasion, and then, in good tradition, we will be able to reassess ourselves with aburgen-based Uhudler, a Styrian Achterl, a Lower Austrian Glaserl Veltliner or even with a wonderful Vienna water, which partly also comes from Styria. I wish you, I wish you all the best, good health and can say goodbye to me with a Styrian happiness.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e27964	Mr Fichtinger, I would like to thank you and wish you all the best for the future. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. The first thing we can do is to vote on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's request to take note of its report 1127 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 257/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the resolution on the freedom of genetic engineering in our fields attached to the Committee's report 1127 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 146.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues in the field of genetically modified feed. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[23:28:13]] 19. Point Choice of a writer
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e28037	We're coming to the 19th. Agenda item. Because of the excretion of power. Daniela Musiol from the National Council should be chosen as a writer. The proposal of the Green Club for the secretary to be elected is to Mrs Mag. Alev Korun. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 87 para. 7 in conjunction with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. We will now come to the vote. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the proposal, Mrs Mag. To choose Alev Korunz's writer to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I'm asking the electorate if she's taking the choice. [[Abg. Korun: Thank you for your trust!]] Thank you many times, ladies and gentlemen. I congratulate you. [[General condolences.]] That is the point of the agenda. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:29:36]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e28085	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in requests 1680/A to 1710/A. [[23:29:48]] Request according to § 99 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2016-05-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00128_d8e28106	I also announce that, in the context of the Self-employed Application 1680/A, the Court of Auditors has carried out a special act of conduct auditing, concerning the review of the financial authorities as regards tax fraud in public limited companies, a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 23.30 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
